ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u82873	We've come to an end with a view, and now we're going to move on to the agenda. Before the first point on the basis of Article 247. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament what the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice have proposed to conduct a joint debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda and on points 4 and 5 of the agenda that are scheduled for today. These are points 2 and 3 of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on consumer bankruptcy and points 4 and 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies. Do you agree? Well, then we'll have a united discussion of two, two, and three and four and five points. We are going to the eighth debate of a respected colleague, Stipo Mlinarić, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u82966	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I will talk about the evicted Croatia which pays double taxes to the mother state, and we know that it is 400,000 people who have moved out of Croatia in the last 10 years. The question is, from where did the face of Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic come from to charge the difference in tax taxes, which is very incorrect to our children, who they have driven out of Croatia with their bad policies. If these people create significant benefits for the state by sending money to their families and thus solving Croatia's country of additional problems, the question must be raised from where so much insolentness of a resolute minister towards that category of people who, in so doing, have entrusted the country with their peaceful departure and relieved it of the numerous obligations that the state would have towards them if they had stayed there. If we're talking about benefits for the country our emigrants make they look like this. According to the latest EUROSTAT data in Croatia, 1.86 billion euros have come from personal transfers from emigrants. Compared to other transition countries, Croatia is, according to the share of foreign credits in GDP and their significance for the country's balance of payments at the very top of Europe. When viewed by the head of the population, it is 457.2 euros per capital. The money our emigrants send is three times bigger than the total foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia, so much for our authorities' ability to attract foreign capital to Croatia. Total annual transfers to Croatia from abroad through fees to employees or personal receipts go up to around 4 billion euros. Are these the reasons why our exiled people in Ireland or elsewhere will be further taxed? This could mean that our emigrants, for example, in Ireland who want to avoid additional taxation in Croatia, need to prove to Croatian tax administrations that they are no longer Croatian residents or bonds. One of the intended evidence would be, among other things, a permanent stay in Ireland, a purchase of real estate in Ireland by obtaining Irish or other citizenship. Since our people in Ireland and other Western countries pay a high price for renting apartments and other living costs, it is not difficult to conclude that many additional taxation in Croatia would lead to an uninvited position. Therefore, we must rightly ask ourselves whether this law or regulations was written by the enemy of Croatia. This will ultimately stimulate these unfortunate people to leave Croatia permanently and create new lives somewhere outside the country of Croatia because this is another contribution to the depopulation measures of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83030	We are going to the third debate of a respected colleague Milanović litre on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83031	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A dozen days ago, a new album called “Tram 11” was released, entitled “One and One” in which 14 new songs can be listened, in which they do all that is expected of the rappers – provoking, cursing, shocking, most important of all they question today’s society and culture. For those who have not met "Tram 11" i.e. General Woo and Target are now cult rappers who played one of the biggest roles of the 1990s in the popularization of tails in Croatia. Their engagement on the music scene in then war Croatia is largely due to the development of an entire subculture which, in the difficult times of our history, I would say, I would blow the young. They were considered desirable by media and critics until yesterday and are already in trouble today. So we have an example of one of the most visited portals in Croatia that published an article entitled "Tram 11" today after 22 years of publication of their new album. Fans are in Ecstasy, and we bring all the details. In this article, among other praises, they wrote: “Let’s remind ourselves that the very announcement of the album has created a general hysteria not only in Croatia, but worldwide. All their fans wanted their copy of the album, so the first edition was already sold out in advance." They continue: "Album One and One exudes thematics and metaphors of today and leads us to the world of tails of this Zagreb couple who are one of the founders of the Croatian rap scene." But this portal wasn't the only one who praised the new album. The praises of Meanstream critics came from all over the place. All indicators suggest that the new album will indeed be a successful continuation of the twenty-year career. But ten days after the album's release, the situation is drastically different. The publishing house broke the contract with Tram 11 and explained that they were aware and that they were sorry that the publication of the album offended part of the audience, and that it was never their intention and that they were doing everything to correct this accidental failure. And they finally claim that they never supported any form of hate but freedom of speech and diversity. They obviously support freedom of speech other than Tram 11, because their freedom of speech and artistic expression is irrelevant because it does not comply with the values of leftist falange on-line activist so-called. Keyboard Warrior. The portal I mentioned, which was praised by Tram 11 on the release of the album yesterday, published an authorial text in which the title Tram 11 was written, not by any right-wing rappers, but by the sad provocators defending Thompson's terrace from Danka Partizanka. Referring to the godless controversial verse of the song PHK, which reads: On the forehead of your five-pointer, in the eye of the length of the color, if you are an association of what billion kunas count, smokes a little bit of Tito, a little Castro, as you break the Danka Partizan on the terrace. All this indicates that in Croatia there is certainly a culture of cancellation and political correctness that has all the characteristics and characteristics that we can see in Western countries that live on the edge of chaos today. Political correctness and culture that develops around this unnatural sick idea are a threat to freedom of speech in the West, but also in Croatia. Perhaps to a lesser extent in Croatia because it is obvious that under Bozinovic's baton can end up in prison because of comments on social networks. Cancellation of the album "One and One" is proof that Croatia is falling into one senses of political correctness and safe spaces and restricting freedom of speech. I'll repeat Tram 11 again, provoke, swear, shock, and question today's society and culture, but they don't invite anyone to violence. And as long as that is the case, regardless of political views, we should support them because none of us are competent to judge where that line of acceptance of free speech is. Freedom of speech either exists or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83088	We are going to another debate, the Social Democrats' Club, a respected colleague, Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83089	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Not once have we heard stories about the eviction of the best and most potential personnel from Croatia most motivated by the fact that the poisoned corrupt systems of values rule in Croatia. Reporters of irregularities are punished by cancelling a labour contract, driven to long-term litigation, are subject to slander, defamation and stigmatisation and are treated as major criminals for reporting crimes than those who have committed crimes. And yesterday's case of Mr. Custic being detained for expressing his personal opinion that he does not support either the government or the one headed by the government proves how much our country is based on democracy. We are a poor democratic state in which the police are bringing in a 70-year-old pensioner who criticises the political elite. They forgot about Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 38 guaranteeing freedom of mind, expression of thought. In the sea of corrupt shops we face daily, each of us can tell a story about several top young people who left Croatia not only because of achieving better material conditions abroad, but also because of the nausea of corrupt social relations in Croatia. The government is not engaged in resolving corruption in its ranks but rather in spying on social networks and who will reprove Plenkovic and his government at any time. If someone were looking at this on the side, you'd probably think that there's honey and milk running in the country when one comment on Facebook is the biggest and worst problem. We witness daily that our country because of this corrupt government in ruins, that the situation of corruption is unbearable, catastrophic, but it is obviously not a problem because there are people who have Facebook and dare to comment on the gentleman we cannot criticize. In order not to be arrested yet, I will, instead of Mr. Custic, complete the thought of corruption corrupting power, the bad government is the foundation of corruption, the benefits of corruption are powerful, the damages are all but the most hurt by the poor or those who hold to order or do business fairly. A lot of words are said about it, it's a little bit done. Croatia is impoverished and robbed country, corruption is eaten by Croatian society, because of corruption we live worse, corruption reduces the chances of society for success, because of corruption investment is never less. 400,000 people have moved out because of mistrust in institutions because they see that those who should protect society from corruption such as DORH are actually closing their eyes against corruption, while applicants and critics are being punished. Because of corruption, many of our citizens have low wages, pensioners live in misery, young and educated do not see their future in Croatia. When the perpetrators of corrupt actions are processed, and unfortunately this is very rare, these processes are often and without results, and it has destroyed citizens' faith in institutions. How can anyone even believe in a country where the greater criminals are the ones who report a crime than those who commit a crime? I still believe that Croatia is a country that has great potential and a chance to succeed, but only if we get rid of corruption and if it is run by people who will serve it. For me, the most important weapon we have, the most important value we must retain and the trend we must push is the growth of democracy through the rule of law, the participation of citizens, the responsible government, strong civil society, freedom of speech and journalism that is free from state control and which is fearless. These constituents of institutions that support them and the values that support them are what makes real democracy, and true democracy is the foundation of real justice and better Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83157	9 debated colleague Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83158	Good afternoon. The detention of 70-year-olds due to a written and publicly published comment under the article on the local portal yesterday was one of the main news days. Given the way police officers have acted, it is doubtful that they have acted on a political order that this bizarre case of threats and insults to rotten eggs deserves more than a few free speeches today. First of all, I warmly welcome the lady whose statement as a comment on this case was published in the New TV Central Journal as if it were not the exact same thing, probably nothing, not even a hunch the lady calmly said in the camera that she thinks that Mladen Custić had been brought in for nothing, and that the prime minister really should be shot with eggs. Such a statement made in the central journal on the day when all the media are writing about how one citizen is deprived of freedom because of a literally the same sentence deserves my deep respect. I would be the happiest if now the entire opposition side of the assembly instead of listening to this free speech just stood up and gave that woman the right applause, but the opposition side of the assembly is half empty. My question is, will the police now knock on that lady's door? Will she also find an indictment in the mailbox for disturbing public order and peace, and in her case will the same sentence, treat the same message as demeaning and insulting the state authorities? I don't think so, and that sentence just happened to defile the true essence of this police political brutality. The lady can sleep peacefully because the media publicity caused by this first case will, for at least some time, keep the police away from banging on the door of citizens and breaking into their homes in search of rotten eggs as a means to threaten the prime minister because, for example, it would have been done to seek a gun as a means of some serious, really serious threat. In this bizarre case, common sense states that police officers still did not examine poor Mladen Custic's refrigerator, but that common sense also states that they were aware that there was no serious threat here, which means that they had no legal basis for bringing and depriveing freedom. A subsequent requalification of the alleged threat of insult under the law last amended in '94. and who still lives in some long time ago in which the fine is tied to German marks does not remove the illegality of conduct from the beginning. I welcome the quick reaction of the attorney general who opened the case the first day this news appeared in the media. However, I fear that the key question will not be answered, even if they were wrong or obeying someone’s political order. That answer must be found by ourselves. Observing on this issue, the interior minister denied such a possibility, but I do not trust him, and neither do Croatian citizens. He was not trusted by women who were victims of domestic violence who repeatedly and repeatedly reported various threats. Sadly, many of them have suffered from such threats at the end of the day because these words directed to them by the violent system simply did not identify the system as a serious enough threat. They do not trust a minister or other citizens who are fed up with corruption affairs that are not being investigated because in a country of mass thieving which a political party in power for 10 years is simply not touching. No one believes that police officers here spontaneously read the portals during their working hours, so they simply became alarmed when they saw somewhere in the comments that someone imagined he dared to write that the prime minister was narcissistic. And that's why citizens not only don't trust the minister, they don't trust the prime minister. Citizens see that he is cruel and pompous, citizens see that the prime minister does not answer questions and references even when he stands here behind this pay phone in HS where his answer to questions and the patience of criticism is constitutional obligation and duty. They don't trust the citizens of the prime minister because he's doing the media, they don't trust him because he's hosting independent institutions, they don't trust him because they simply see that he's a person who doesn't like anyone who violates the beautiful image that he created about himself. In essence, this is about a clean abuse of power and the use of repression to intimidate the public. In fact, the prime minister is aware of European values and knows well what standards are expected when citizens talk about politics. What is clear as a day that citizens are truly humiliated and issued in this HDZ state. Fortunately, thanks to Mladen Custic and that beautiful lady from "The Diaries" will not agree to be silenced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83236	Thank you. Let's move on, esteemed colleague Kekin on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83237	Good afternoon, everyone. So, the zealous public order and peace forces last Friday about half-one took Mladen Custic's pensioner back to the 72-year-old police station where he was held until the evening. At that time, he was brought before the judge and asked for 30 days of detention and to stay until Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic left Zadar in his indictment. Triba welcomed him with rotten eggs of him and his half-trons, no one humiliated him so much and betrayed the Croatian narcissist poor. This was a dangerous threat and a violation of the public order and peace of pensioner Custic. In September of last year, the zealous public order and peace forces of Mr. Tony Berosha, 69 years old, issued an invitation to report to the station because he was allegedly reported for threats. When he refused to go to the police, a personal police inspector from Jelsa came to him who had a conversation with him in the car concerning the alleged threats of Mr. Beros to the president of HS. Good afternoon, Mr. Nuña. In July 2019, a zealous public order and peace force arrested an unnamed protester who also disrupted public order and peace at the time of the prime minister's arrival. He yelled when he saw the Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The zealous forces of public order and peace arrested Zoran Erceg's war veteran, who protested the opening of the monument to Franji Tudjman and thus violated public order and peace. Tudjman the criminal now unfortunately deceased Zoran Erceg. In August 2018, you hit the poor public order forces and arrested 18-year-old Mark Starcic, who during a visit to the prime minister on the Poreč Riviera as well as everyone who had previously listed a disturbance of public order and peace, he specifically called HDZ thieves. It doesn't matter what he called out to sum up the powerful verdict the HDZ received in the Fimi Media case. As we can see, express arrests are reserved for those situations where the prime minister feels threatened and as we can see, it happens when he is being criticised, not a threat but a criticism, and then the prime minister's criticism is declared to be discrimination, threat, dehumanisation and hate speech. In this process of taking up the position of the victim is called the dehumanisation they experience. Well, here's a message to the Prime Minister, you're not victims of dehumanization, you're not victims of your party comrades, but of the minors who were physically attacked for his nationality, and you called it an ordinary cheerleading conflict. It is not you who are the victim, but those who receive real threats that do not mention rotten eggs, but who say “break the leg, break the neck of a bitch, Danky should break the bones of a conceited fool, throw it off the terrace, a bullet in the forehead, a barbed neck. ” These are threats addressed to journalists Danki Derifaj, Maji North and Boris Dežulovic. It's not you who are the victims, it's those who, by destroying your industry, have lost their jobs and live their years in a blockade. You're not the victims, you're the ones who can't find a job without the right party card because of the corruption and clientelem you consistently carry out. It's not you who are the victims, it's the ones who ran away from this country for imperceptibility, no matter what. It is not you who are the victims, but all those who, in their infirmity, can only express misery and frustration by criticizing you and your government. And I will remind you of the right to freedom of expression as well as the right to freedom of assembly implies and to express dissatisfaction with the current authority and its policies. However, the European Court of Human Rights points out that public criticism is especially when it is directed towards politicians not only but also normal in democratic society, and that politicians must suffer a higher degree of criticism than other citizens. The restriction of freedom of expression can only occur if the security of state officials and citizens is compromised, not in the event that the prime minister's subtle feelings are injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83294	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We started today on Tuesday, given that we have a lot of amendments to the laws we're going to be working on on Thursday, so there wouldn't be enough time until Friday, so we're going to start today with free speeches. The first in line is a respected colleague, Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83295	In addition to the undiscovered truths that the mayor of Tomasevic made, for example, in the manner of an overstretched political mechanic that he did not say during the campaign that he would not touch the acquired rights of parent-raisers and lead to violations of the Law on conflict of interest on mere formalism, instead of recognising his own content failure. The announcement of a new model of collection and transportation and waste in Zagreb showed that Tomislav Tomašević is on track to overcome really high HDZ standards in a misleading way of managing the lives of citizens. In the first row, Tomaševic does so by choosing the timing when the changes take effect. My colleague Bencic rightly said this was not an accident, the evening debate in the supposed evening porn term was not normal, he began in December 2020. Tomislav Tomasevic was still an opposition representative, criticising HDZ's evening timing to try to manipulate parliamentary debates and remove them from the public's eyes. When he became part of the government, he began to do the same in the Zagreb Assembly. Also, as a miracle, the new model of waste management will start to apply in July, so at the moment most citizens go on vacation, which is why they will certainly not only be willing to complain but will practically produce less waste, so they will not be aware of how much the new model actually costs until the fall comes and then ate the donkey wolf. Good job on the mayor's transparency. Another principled point that it is important to point out that most citizens will cost this model of waste management more. Yeah, we can't make as little waste as they can charge us. However, you can try to save so that in an apartment with no balconies and air conditioning on the Serbian asvalt heat for a week you can breathe in the smelly bones of chops and fish guts, if you were so lucky that you had them on plates. And here we come to the third problem, at the moment of growing inflation when in April we are expected to radically collect gas, electricity prices and food flights to the sky our mayor remembered to raise the prices of municipal services. I advocate green policies, personally and for scientific years I have been dealing with them, but I live in a Croatian reality in which it is justified whether right now it is time for another blow to the citizens' pocket under the exception of environmentalism. Can they handle it? Well done on social sensitivity, Mayor. Of course, we all want a cleaner city and citizens who consciously treat waste, but in order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to establish a system in which a chain that is part of the waste classification will be functional, and then change social consciousness by stimulating, rather than punishing, a model, because the key question is whether these changes are aimed at patching up holes in the budget by earning a civic lack of habitual sorting or by encouraging citizens to better manage their own waste. Why don't those who have been sorting since September, not the manipulative July, pay less than ever. We can rush the platform to re-creation the citizens of Zagreb, it is logical that they think that we need it when surrounded by those who have unknown basics of morality and civilizational behavior. Such propaganda is created by a person who believes that killing Catholic priests is a characteristic of good old times. And what do the Cannes say about that? Could they have shown themselves principled and broken their cooperation with the person concerned? Of course not, they just condemned the phenomenon and saved the other one. Then, in another statement to Sandra Bencic about supporting the return of Marshal Tito's Square, they showed that good old times are not just a twittery slip, but a part of a system policy that is increasingly visible to them. But if Bencic is to be trusted, they will ask the citizens of Lower Town about the return of Titus’s square because citizens must have an important opinion. That's nice. And why not ask those same citizens about how to collect waste? Let's go, Mayor Tomasevic, one advisory referendum on a new proposal for waste collection. This is not to say that you are underestimating the citizens of the city of Zagreb so much that you think that they should not have an opinion on their own garbage, and that they want to ideological waste and have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83382	6 SDP Representatives' Club debate, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I recently asked the prime minister well-intentioned what the government intends to do in this year's introduction of the EUR and the issue of inflation. I openly supported that the EUR-o is a good story for Croatia in the long term and today I think it is a good story for Croatia. However, I also warned that Croatia is currently in some situations where no European countries have been in place since the introduction of the EUR. In the last 30 years, we have strong inflation pressure on product prices, and on the other hand we have the introduction of EUR. And what to do in that situation where we have two strong pressures on the standard of citizens. We see that prices are unconstitutional and that where, in my question and we propose, it means something that other countries have been doing. For example, Slovenians have worked, where a working group is formed in this year and in the following year, the commission of whatever you want to call where it should be appointed except for the Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy and Minister of Agriculture and the National Bureau of Statistics of the CNB, that it is also the consumer association to monitor the prices of products, food products already now, to be monitored and to be monitored for the next year, to actually get reports of what is happening on the market is not normal that in the last few months we have on one side the growth of food agricultural products bi-digitally. Oil grows 40%, a bottle of gas from 105 to 150 kuna, so we have very strong, all food products oil, flour, salt means basic foods grow two-digit. You know how much inflation the CNB said would be inflation for the previous year in 2021? 2.6%. What's gonna happen to us? This calculation of this general price of inflation that enters and indexations of pensions will now be in the 3rd month you will see how much pension indexation of pension pensions will be received by pensioners. Funny about the growth of industrial products or agricultural products. What's going on? What we propose to change the indexation of pensions for a basket of goods is what the pensioners actually use is going to do this way if they follow the general level of prices, and last year the CNB said that 2.6%, and we know that agricultural products, industrial products used by pensioners in their basket have grown 20, 20, 40%. The standard of the largest number of Croatian citizens will fall. And that's why we appeal to change the indexation for pensions to make that part of the standard that hits prices to be as low as possible. What will be the blow next year when the euro is also introduced? That's what I'm not talking about. And that's why it's important if these are exceptional circumstances, not only because he's a covid, because we have inflation, the introduction of the euro, and I think the government has the right to change formulas and change the structure by following the standard of citizens. Who made the most of this inflation? But she earned the country. You'll see when it's announced, when the government announces what the revenues actually are, you'll see that they've grown much more than the incomes of the most vulnerable groups. So one part I support the government when it makes certain decisions to change the energy impact on the price of gas, but we have to worry that in this year it must be... prices, that must be followed and come next year, and that is well-intentioned means that we need to know what is happening on the market, and on the other hand, to defend the standard of the largest part of Croatian citizens, these are pensions, or to go with one-time help, if they can't appreciate this price, they'll simply be poor with their pensions from the month to the month, and the government, given the formula that is now with 1.1. and when the second indexation comes, you'll see that the increase will be 40 to 50 kuna. And that's why these times say we have to change the way, if we change the way we think we have to change the instruments that affect the fall of standards, and that is, this will cause the additional decline of the standards of pensioners and Croatian citizens, we propose these two models. I think it is very important to send a clear message that inflation threatens especially those citizens who are poor. So we haven't had inflation in society in 20 years, but this is now an inflation of 5.5% in December and what is actually announced by the CNB this year is already that other measures must be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83465	Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th debate, HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83466	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It would take a lot of time to respond to these meales, even the untrues of this pay phone during this morning's club statement. What I would like to point out in particular is the unbelief not to say the bizarreness that some clubs bring out here, and they forget what, as well as how they act, so, for example, I would particularly point out to Mrs. Kekin who's in front of the platform we can! discusses the work of this government, primarily HDZ, only 6 months after they took responsibility for the management of the City of Zagreb. Mayor Tomaševic was ruled in a conflict of interest because of party staffing and thus simply passes in the Croatian public, and they are trying to draw attention to others from the ignorance, intricacies, clientelism that is being handled and run by Zagreb. Not to mention how unacceptable it is to talk about the demographic policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia at the time when the City of Zagreb abolishs the parent measure, which practically leads to an impossible situation of over 5,000 families in Zagreb and more than 16,000 children who have been covered by this measure so far. Or it is simply silenced that their media spokesman regrets the old and good times when communists killed Catholic priests. They're all trying to attack others, others, somehow remove it from the media space to get it under the radar. The part in which the government's economic policy, the announced inflation, the introduction of the euro, about the price of code energy is forgotten that Croatia, not Croatia, but Europe and the whole world are going through so far, through a health crisis that has its reflections on economic flows, on production, on the standard of all citizens and in such conditions, thanks to this government, Croatia is relatively good at the competition that we can compare with. The fact is that for the first three quarters of this year, GDP growth in Croatia is over 10%, 10.7%, the second largest GDP growth in Croatia. All this has been done primarily by the good economic measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought. I would remind you that during the period we were going through and we are still going through this crisis, the government has allocated more than 12 billion kuna to save 800,000 jobs and these funds have allowed more than 126,000 Croatian employers to remain liquid and remain with, can continue their business. Thanks to this fact today, so in January 2022, Croatia recorded the slightest unemployment. Some 125,000 unemployed in Croatia, which is more than 100,000 less and more open jobs compared to 2016. Therefore, the data provided by the State Statistics Institute, provided by Eurostat, speak how and how the Croatian government has set itself up in this crisis. We are facing a very challenging period of announced inflation, which is primarily the result of the world market movement. First of all, energy prices clearly and prices of basic products that are often inputs, represent input costs in the formation of the prices of certain products. This is why the government announced a package of measures that will be presented very quickly to the Croatian public, which will be directed in 3 directions. First, the first direction is to expand and upgrade the voucher system for the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable part of the Croatian population, thus making it clear, to ease the impact that this year will cause inflation, which is announced at around 3.5%. Then they'll react to tax policy, I assume, by reducing VAT. And the third thing that contributes to the reduction of inflation should be given companies that are distributors in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83545	Let's move on now, 5 debates, respected colleague Katarina Peovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83546	Good afternoon, everyone. A lot has been said recently about the trading of privileged information in the CNB and the purchase of securities. According to all of this, it could happen as the outcome of the HANFA audit that nothing in the CNB happens or that no one is responding because it's all within the law. I will warn you of the fact that in Podravka every member of the administration has the right to buy 7,500 optional shares for 364 kunas that can be sold on the stock market for around 700 kuna and thus earn each member around 2 and a half million kuna. Is that fair? Is that legal? It's legal. Is that fair, that's another question? In Podravka, where workers work for a minimumer where the average salary is about 7,006 kuna but these average salaries raise huge management salaries. Where, regardless of the administration's claim that there is no money to raise wages for each work, it could increase wages by 1,000 kuna, which would still be 6.5 million kuna in the first quarter of last year, Podravka would have gained more than 100 million kuna. It just means that every worker gets paid 1,000 kuna each. Last year, Podravka booked for manager's bonuses of over 15 million kunas, 2020, as an excuse, for 15 million kunas for management bonuses only. Workers work in misery, workers work under very difficult working conditions not only to work for small wages. The same thing happened to the Oilman. So the directors of the Oilies and the Oilies also allowed themselves to trade shares in this way. The oil has failed as we all know it, and what happens today in Ulanik, so here are the parts of the olive grove still sold out, so the oil standard means it's sold as you all know for a poor number of entrepreneurs who are praised by the newspaper as they've done the job of the century, says the Uljanik standard I bought very cheap, the value of the property is at least 6 times higher, etc., so the Oily Standard sells real estate, a single hotel where there have been social cases of which many and former oil workers have ended up in that hotel which will now be thrown out of their accommodations. Here is the general public so far, the unknown Lovric is otherwise engaged in galvanization in his craft that began working in Galizana in 2000. Today he employs colleagues and colleagues of 25 workers. The oil man hired tens of thousands of workers. We were one of the great forces in shipbuilding when a slightly different policy was being conducted, and it did not allow managers to earn, workers kept on the minimum, and then later declared those companies non-profit and cases that should actually be put on ad act. As far as corruption is concerned, we are constantly listening to corruption, corruption is a solution to the establishment of this state, the rule of law, here in this case Podravka shares are all by law as it was by law and by the shares of Uljanika. It's not just that we need to lead to the rule of law, it's all about corruption, we just have to solve corruption, we have systemic corruption. Systemic corruption means that the laws allowed a rich minority in this way, and that most of them lose the last levers of the social state, not to say that there is not enough money to live off their wages that is woven into the Republic Constitution so that the worker should be able to live off his salary and when people are said to have moved out because of the feeling of corruption, let's not lie, people have moved out because we have one of the lowest employment rates, because they have no place to work, because they work for wages that are not enough to live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83625	My colleague Milanović litre, I am obliged to warn you that you are using very simple words that can be used by rappers, but we cannot represent us here in HS, so please do not do such things. Now it's up to fellow Pupovac on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u83626	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, I will now talk about, not only the usurpation of agricultural land in different areas of the Republic of Croatia than Otisic in the area of Vrlika, Udbina, Sunja, Pakrac, but also I will not talk about the neglect of those holding cattle on that land and not paying attention to what cattle do on neighbouring parcels and in neighbouring courtyards and in neighbouring gardens, but I will also talk about acts of violence and threats, serious threats that some of the owners and users of that land take to people who wish to oppose it. I'll start from Udbina. The head of Udbin municipality, a young man, recently I had a chance to meet him, elected in the previous elections, opposed a phenomenon that has lasted since 2012 at least. At that time, I was first in the area of Udbina when people were to protect their gardens, they had to build fences 12 meters high, 2 meters high, and if they said something, then they would not only be scolded and insulted but would be beaten, and their horses, cows, cattle generally held unattended by cattle could move from Udbina to Perusic, Gospić, wherever they wanted and destroy the crops and gardens of people. The police would file criminal charges, the courts would do nothing, the competent inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture would also do nothing, people would collect millions of incentives and everything would be perfect, and those people and their right to a peaceful life, to safety, to protect their property, no one would protect them. Now it comes to order the chief who has rebelled against it in the interest of legality, in the interests of his citizens in the area and in the ultimate line in the interest of the state because of such a way of developing agriculture and using incentives from agriculture this country has no use for, nor will agriculture be developed and maintained, nor will this country have any serious benefit but only there will be damage to people who live there, whose basic source of income in life, who cannot use their country, who cannot enjoy the fruits of their work, and someone who is arrogant, who has protection, who now and money, who they know in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the Agency, in inspection that it is illegal, but still passes. Well, now I want to say from this pay phone that as far as Chief Udbina is concerned, he doesn't belong to the SDSS, but he does his job properly. He could've done it here in Zagreb, but he decided to go down and now he's facing life-threatening threats. Recently in the area of Otišic, the target of the attack was local Serb residents, now it was local Croatian residents, a local Croatian village. In Sunja, a man lets horses, lives in Zagreb, collects incentives down, lets horses go around as long as he wants and whoever dares has a problem if he warns. My question is, as long as the Ministry of Agriculture, the competent inspection, the competent agency will tolerate people picking up incentives from taking care of animals, and some of them threatening locals are making their lives impossible. Now they're threatening local authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88301	and the first point goes on its own is: - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, First Reading, P.Z.E. No 242 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Stanka? Yeah, okay. So before I give my word to the promoter, we have requests for a break, the first colleague is Oreskovic, and I saw a colleague, Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88302	I thank the president. The bill on the protection of whistles is one of the important anti-corruption laws and when we discuss how we are going to edit this institute we need to see what actually happens to whistlers in practice. Perhaps the best example of this is today's front page of the Nationals and a very specific case through which I would like to observe all the provisions that we will touch in today's debate. Namely, the only effective protection of whistles is the effective and independent judiciary, the rapid and efficient work of the competent state authorities and institutions. In this particular case, I would like our institutions, above all, to have the Commission decide on a conflict of interest, as well as the State Attorney's Office react to the same speed and urgency that police officers have responded to in this case, bizarrely to the arrest of pensioners because of the threat and insult of rotten eggs. This case points to heavy abuses of positions, powers and duties of a whole series of high-ranking officials starting with Minister Banozic, starting with the head of the Office of the Government of Mr. Frka Petesic, starting with the director of the state-owned company of State Property d.o.o., and the Honored Chairman and you are mentioned here in a very ugly context. I will also remind that the Croatian public has learned what the difference between a potential and a realized conflict of interest means. A potential conflict of interest is a situation where someone is trying to do something, but real realization has never occurred. If the hard ones published today by the National Week are true here, we are witnessing a real conflict of interest which would result in a complete government falling within the time of the cookie if the state authorities had the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88303	Stanka is approved, now it's up to counterpart Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88304	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, we're looking for a break on behalf of the club, we'd like to put an emphasis on how important it is in all dimensions to fight corruption. Not just at the level of language, but very specific works. Some claim that silence is gold, and we know that silence in this dimension of corruption and nepotism in our country is an explicit, explicit sign of compliance with all those irregularities and difficulties that are happening. Recently, in Brussels, they calculated that corruption costs Croatian society 60 billion a year. So that's the number to freeze, that's the number to freeze and how much good we could do with that money. It seems to me that we have come in danger of even having laws that are quite good, and then in the field we have chaos, in the system we have chaos and we wonder whose paws are above our judiciary, whose paws are above our lawyers over our entire judiciary if we don't have a just system today. Well, we remember everyone here is Andriana Cvrtila, Sabeka, so people who have reported irregularities that have raised their voice against corruption, against nepotism, and then not to end up on the margins, but to be kicked, left without a job, they really remain without a basic existence. And it's okay with her. And I appeal to your conscience now, indeed, to your conscience as a man who heads such an important ministry, do everything you can to protect people who report theft, irregularities, corruption and start building better, fairer and fairer Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88305	Thank you, too. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Then we'll take a short break to 10.35. MEETING AT 10:27 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88307	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Republic of Croatia is among the first EU member states to regulate the rights of persons reporting irregularities, i.e. The whistle. The Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity was adopted in February 2019 and entered into force on 1 July 2019 and certain international standards for the protection of whistles were already incorporated in that law, primarily those of the Council of Europe. The same year when the Republic of Croatia passed a law at EU level on 23 October was also adopted by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons reporting infringements of the Union. Although the adoption of a new law of access is primarily due to the need to bring our legislation into line with the EU Directive, this proposal further regulates certain issues raised by practice. The new law more precisely regulates the scope and extends it to EU sectoral regulations specifically mentioned in the law and then to areas affecting the financial interests of the Union and areas relating to the internal market, competition and state support. In addition, the protection of whistles that report irregularities in the application of national rules is still required if such a breach threatens the public interest. The new law retains the structure of the reporting channel, which includes internal reporting, reporting irregularities through a confidential person to the employer. A confidential person must have all employers who employ at least 50 employees, while employers who have between 50 and 249 employees are given the possibility to share resources in connection with the application and conduct of the internal registration procedure. Workers will continue to play a decisive role in selecting confidential persons. Classified persons will be appointed to the Working Council or it will be a union commissioner or directly on a proposal from the workers. External reporting, therefore, allows it to be determined, hence, to be reported to the external body, or to the Advocate General. The paper is that from now on, the applicant will be able to report directly to the Advocate General whether or not the applicant first used the internal login channel. Public disclosure is also a reporting channel. This represents the detection of irregularities to the public. The applicant of irregularities will have the right to protection under this law if adequate activities have not been undertaken in the context of internal and external reporting to resolve the application or if he considers that the irregularity poses a risk to the public interest, then there is a risk of revenge or if the odds of the irregularity being removed are low. More precisely, the concept of revenge includes any direct or indirect action or failure in the working environment such as a threat of revenge or attempt at revenge is defined. This enables better protection of applicants of irregularities. The applicant of irregularities will have the right to protection, including judicial protection, compensation for damages, protection of identity and confidentiality, and primary legal assistance. It is explicitly prescribed that persons who have submitted their application anonymously but subsequently established identity exercise the same right to protection as those who have revealed identity. In addition, the right to protection is exercised by a person who directly reports irregularity to the EU institutions, bodies or agencies. The right to protect applicants of irregularities from now on will also be enjoyed by a confidential person, her deputy as well as by connected persons. This legislative proposal further provides for the protection not only of persons who are in a permanent working relationship but also of volunteers, students, persons engaged under an act contract, persons involved in public procurement procedures, or persons involved in the activities of the employer. When we talk about the procedure for reporting irregularities, it is significantly facilitated, the content of reporting irregularities and the manner of reporting is arranged. Login will be enabled by mouth or by written means. The written path will be improved in relation to the current system and any future system that allows a written track of the application will include modern IT tools, applications and the like. Oral registration is possible via telephone or other voice mail system, and at the request of the notifier and the physical meeting. When it comes to sanctioning the novelty, it is also possible to impose criminal sanctions against the applicant of irregularities or related persons. A confidential person and his/her deputy and any other person participating in the proceedings shall be liable for breach of the obligations to protect identity and confidentiality. The new whistle protection law will strengthen the legal protection of whistles through the provision of the right to primary legal aid, the expansion of the circle of persons entitled to protection. The application process will then be simplified and citizens will be strengthened to report irregularities. I believe that we are aware of the roles and important roles of whistlers in democratic society and that today's debate will confirm the quality direction that the Republic of Croatia is going to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88308	Let's go with the replicas. The first in line is a respected colleague, Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88309	I would first of course like to congratulate you on the new Transparency International report that has shown that in the last 6 HDZ years in the Corruption Perception Index we have not removed from the dead spot. I really congratulate you, and I'm not cynical because it can only mean that we've reached the bottom which opens the space that might be better in the future because we haven't moved from a dead end in six years. My question is very specific. When we look at this bill of law, we can notice that with it, more specifically, an article. The 26th way of applying to an external notifier that is more important than the internal one, because no one believes those in the companies to which corruption is to be reported are neither pleased with the attorney general nor with whistles. The attorney general says it is not exclusively her ingenuity, and whistles say a circle of outside applicants should be expanded. Are you willing to consider this possibility to facilitate whistles to report irregularities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88310	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, intensive communication was both between me and the attorney general, but also within the task force working on the draft of this law, representatives of the attorney general's office participated. So, in a conversation with the Ombudsman, one of the concerned civil defenders was actually a lack of staff captainship of the attorney general's office in the situation to come up with a number of applications under this law, and also certain spatial problems were highlighted there, so that in these talks we have certainly touched this issue and we will also provide through the budget in the attorney general's office additional employment if the application is, and certainly what you mentioned we will consider between the two readings to extend possibly some more of the channels for reporting irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88312	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88313	Thank you, President HS. I'm interested in something concrete. So, what you can do as a minister to the Croatian public, tell the Croatian public to follow this and we'll make sure that the Croatian citizens hear it, what you can do as Minister for Andriana Cvrtila, so the woman comes, report corruption, report to corruption, report what is wrong, and then in the system, because she's doing systematization to get her leg up her ass, so disaster and what kind of message we send to Croatian citizens then, report to corruption, report nepotism you'll be fasovating because she knows the octopus in which ways she can spend her fascising, what kind of message we send, or we need to encourage Croatian citizens and tell you to report everything that's wrong, report because you're doing good, you're fighting against evil. Minister, what can you do to help this woman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88314	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88315	Thank you, Your Honor, so I would not now refer to a concrete proposal, I would only point out and repeat what I have initially pointed out that this legal text here in front of you, which includes sufficient elements and judicial protection, but also everything else that goes with it and free legal assistance will encourage persons, so employees to report certain irregularities. So, we've further strengthened legal protection for whistles, provided them with free legal assistance. The same court procedure that the court may therefore have, therefore, to be followed by an emergency procedure, is also prescribed for certain provisional measures that the court may take in this procedure. So I believe that this legal text here today is in front of you so that the legal protection of whistles is strengthened, that this protection of whistles encourages that person to report certain irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88316	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88317	Art. 238, insulting the MPs. You have nothing not to answer specific questions, if you are asked a specific question this is the HS to which you answer, so go ahead and answer. And you, Mr. Chairman, bring Mr. Secretary to order so he knows how the constitution is written and to whom it suits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88318	Your colleagues Vidovic Kristo are being warned. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is the right of the minister to respond in the way he considers necessary, he will judge whether it was good or not, and I cannot tell him what he will say in his answer. So please stay away from that kind of guidance. Here you go, fellow Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88319	I thank President HS. Dear Minister, a few months ago in this high house we brought in a strategy to prevent corruption for the period '21-2030. Among other things, I would say that actually 3 laws were mentioned here as key and roof precisely in the fight against corruption, so the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Law on Lobbing which is in preparation, and this law that we are discussing today in our first reading. I think we can all agree that protecting applicants is of great interest. What I would refer to is just an article. In 37 and 38, therefore, relating to infringements or fines and this amount up to 50,000 kuna for the employer, so in that sense, I would really like to point out whether there is a possibility that a second reading might be considered and the penalty should be dissuasive in fact for everyone not to commit or violate these provisions of this law, and perhaps, in that sense, the Law on the Protection of Competition where the fine is actually determined in a certain percentage of the total income that the entrepreneur there is, and in fact, the employer here achieves in the last year for which there are annual financial reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88320	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88321	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's the thing, it's definitely those violation provisions that are standardized in art. In the 37th and 38th, they should act dissuasively towards the employers themselves. So here we can consider, by the second reading, that these amounts from 10 to 30 thousand kunas or 30 to 50 thousand kunas to increase that they are really preventable from the employers themselves to prevent any form of pressure against workers or any form of avoiding the application of this law that will certainly, as I have said, improve this legal framework for the protection of whistles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88322	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88323	Thank you. Dear Ministers, as a trusted person other than the employer's employee, can now be appointed a third party. I'm curious to know what the selection procedure for that third party is, are there any restrictions on who the third person can be, is that a lawyer, an auditor, someone else? And I wonder if you intend to make this law more accessible to employees as an example of an ethical code or a labour code that must be present to all employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88325	So, of course, apart from the fact that we've predicted that confidential people be employees and legal persons we've set up, and the possibility of actually being confidential, people being outside the legal personality, so here I believe that this possibility and benefits. We also have the possibility that when we talk about local self-government, therefore several units of local self-government jointly appoint a confidential person. We did not specify this possibility in detail with this legal text, but here is the second reading, and we can think about it. I believe that this law will actually result in certain results that employers and employers have an obligation, so also through the appointment of a confidential person and all other activities, they will meet all the workers with the rights that belong to them under the provisions of this law. Of course, it includes channels as well. and judicial protection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88326	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88327	Thank you. Good afternoon. The respected ministers speak of corruption in Croatia is indeed one notorious thing with 97% perception of the widespread spread of corruption to all it is clear how important it is to encourage citizens and give them full protection. In the law you foresee only elementary legal assistance, there is no predicting psychosocial and psychological assistance, and even in a public debate you have data that 85% of whistlers suffer from various mental health disorders, anxiety, fear, mistrust, and just to look at 48% of what a large number of you have disorders at clinical level means these are already more difficult situations. To truly send citizens a message, do not be afraid, report, the system will stand behind you, whether you feel it is necessary for this bill to enter both psychosocial and psychological assistance to whistlers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88329	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, there's been a lot of questions at public counseling about psychological, psychosocial help. So we didn't predict this possibility by law. So, we predicted free primary legal aid. Here's what I can actually point out is that, after this law has been passed and its application is, in fact, primarily with the Attorney General's Office, we're going to see actually data and some kind of, some kind of thinking, so it's not excluded to put psychosocial or psychological help into the provisions of the law in the future and thus provide not only free primary legal assistance but also psychosocial assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88330	Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88331	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister, would this law protect you, for example? A whistle from the police force? A whistler who would warn of the illegal conduct of his colleagues at the border towards refugees. Could the MUP hide behind the notion of national security or not? I mean the question is, I'm asking you precisely to tell us if that whistle would be protected by this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88332	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88333	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's a specific example, I wouldn't go in at this point, I wouldn't go into an explanation and an explanation of whether or not this particular case is a matter of national security. The work of this working group was therefore attended by representatives who made certain comments from both representatives and internal, the MUP and the Security Intelligence Agency. It is certainly not the purpose of this law to prevent certain irregularities from being reported. However, as you yourself mentioned, there are certain exceptions. The issue of national security is extremely important and important so that it is also a certain exception, so for this reason I would not specifically refer to the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88334	Let's move on, Comrade Mazhar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88335	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, above all, I am pleased to discuss today the adoption of a new law although it is therefore an EU directive which has led to amendments and additions, but just as we first adopted the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity in 2019 and therefore saw certain things that we can actually further improve here today with a new law. I am pleased that the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Office of the Attorney General, welcome a number of innovations in the law. So one novelty is not only the extension of the applicant but also the extension of the time sequence of reporting so that changes in business to the working environment can also be reported after activities but also during, but also before the start of certain activities, so if you can say what it means, in particular, about the time sequence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88337	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we are certainly apart from the implementation of this directive in practice we have seen certain legal gaps or certain problems in the event of the reporting of certain irregularities and we have actually implemented this through the working group, changed this legal framework since July 2019. We have certainly made it easier through these amendments and beyond the implementation and transposition of the directive itself, to facilitate certain reports of irregularities, but also what we have seen in practice, therefore this judicial protection, so we have further strengthened that judicial protection, so we have abolished the deadlines for filing an application for the protection of applicants of irregularities. We have also introduced that this court case is urgent and that a temporary measure may be adopted on the basis of the party's proposal. So I believe this legal text is spreading channels. reporting or judicial protection encourages whistles [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to report an irregularity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88338	Let's move on, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88339	As Churchill would say if you did not want to solve the problem of the founding commission, so Plenkovic's government passed laws that already exist to cover up its own corruption activities and manipulate the Croatian public. We have a current problem in the CERP, so the auditor Nada Ružic found that the management of the CERRP only damaged Croatia's state by 104 million kuna on one project. She reported it, however, that the administration had not responded to Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric, but instead of protecting and saving Croatia 104 million kuna, they fired Mrs. Ruzic. Tell me, is it really necessary for this kind of thief to pass the law in order to prevent it? When we add that Plenkovic's personal friend lawyer Daniel Klobučar collects incredible amounts in this same CERP, then it is clear who is the head of corruption here in Croatia. Do you really think in the Ministry of Justice that someone in Croatia still trusts you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88341	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, I first said that in 2019, when legislation was not regulated at EU level, the Republic of Croatia passed a law that entered into force in July 2019. The Council of Europe's guidelines were largely regulated, followed by European regulations, and in fact we are now transposing this European regulation. And since July 2019, we have been in force of the Law on the Protection of Whistles, so in practice we have seen certain shortcomings, and in fact, I have pointed out many times today, today all these problems in practice and legal gaps that have met and applicants of irregularities, but also the bodies that have acted throughout this process are being corrected and better regulated through this legal text. So I believe that a series of changes in the positive and the good that have been welcomed in public and by whistle-representing associations are also by the attorney general who will contribute to stronger protection. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88342	Comrade Jaksic, here you go. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleagues Vidovic Kristo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88343	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, you again do not answer the specific question Mr. Minister, I really recommend that you read the Croatian Constitution. You are obliged to answer to HS and Croatian people. On the other hand, you get the impression that you really think as the Government of this country the repression is to defend itself against the citizens' rebellion on your corruption activities, and I'm telling you, and we saw this in the case of a pensioner from Malenica, and I'm telling you that no one in history has succeeded, and neither will you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88344	Your colleagues Vidović Kristo receive a second warning, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Now it's time for my colleague, Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88345	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Since corruption perceptions in the Republic of Croatia have come out today, surely every debate like this is something to be welcomed because we all have to fight together something that has been eating Croatia like cancer for decades. But what's my question is, what will these changes today that we're discussing bring to all those who have embroiled from the system a few months back? We have the Kutina case, we have the URI case, we could count more. And do you personally believe that these changes can change perception of corruption without significant changes in the system and the DORH and the Croatian judiciary? Because we know that a lot of times something has been launched by the occupier, and then when it was due to continue, it was either abruptly interrupted or it ended up out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88347	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we are aware of this problem that we are facing, we are going with a number of amendments, and we have started with the Anti-Corruption and Action Plans Strategy and the strategy currently being prepared at the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity and the Law on Lobbying is only one part of the activities that we are taking in this direction to change the perception of fighting corruption, but also the fight against corruption itself by the competent authorities. Soon here will come here before you and the law amending the Law on Courts and the Law on DORH which also foresees a series of activities that will certainly contribute to the change of actually citizens about the perception of corruption itself. So it's not a simple path, it's a long way to go, we're aware of it, but here's a series of activities that we're preparing, and even with this current law where we're strengthening the legal framework we're actually going to enable that segment, and that's reporting irregularities as one small an argument in the fight against corruption. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88348	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88349	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I ask you whether, in the field of reporting irregularities, you will add cases of discrimination and human rights endangerment as particularly sensitive areas, especially in the bodies of the government to protect whistles and when applications occur in that area, I think we have a lot of them and I think that these areas should also be particularly protected. I think that was also discussed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, are you considering extending to that area too?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88350	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88351	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, it certainly is the basis of the debate on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, but here, and the basis of today's plenary debate, until the second reading, we will assume everything that is constructive and all that contributes to the strengthening and position of whistlers and their protection, so here we will leave it to prepare any changes until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88352	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88353	I thank the president of HS. Dear Minister. We need to do everything to achieve zero tolerance for corruption, and I therefore welcome this law and the protection of applicants, or their identity. But my question to you is, will whistles make a revolution in the system if we already have an existing system that should fight corruption and what are the comparisons with European countries? Are whistles there leaders of the fight against corruption or institutions that need to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88355	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, as I just pointed out, in fact, the Law on the Protection of Whistlers, but also the Institute of Whistlers is a small segment in this fight against corruption. So there are in this anti-corruption process a number of bodies that participate primarily in preventive, but also repressive bodies, the Institute, the whistler or applicant of irregularities, is only one segment of that fight against corruption. Through this quality legal text, we will surely encourage and encourage these individuals to report certain irregularities. Therefore, whistles will not be the bearers of the fight against corruption but a small segment in this fight against corruption and in order to achieve this, we must have a quality legal text in which all these whistles will enjoy a certain form of protection at all stages of the application. So, the first to report to the employer himself, but later to judicial protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88356	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88357	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, there has recently been an affair in public regarding the CNB and the purchase, trading of shares, bonds that may have included the use of certain privileged information. The current president of the state said that the person who gave the AKD classified information to the journalist had committed a crime. According to Article 28 of the law you are proposing, it says among other things that a whistler can go public in case of external reporting there is a risk of, so he can go public if there is a risk of revenge. According to you, did the person who gave this reporter information commit a crime or was it a whistler who was just using what you predicted in Article 28? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88358	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88359	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, I must admit that I do not know the situation in detail about the Croatian National Bank. However, I would point out that this legal text here in front of you, so besides that internal reporting and external reporting channel, there is also this possibility of public disclosure of irregularities or disclosure of irregularities to the public. And what is important is that in all these situations, it was either internal, external or public disclosure as a form of reporting or detecting irregularities that person has the right to protection under this law. What exactly is a word? Whether it's a criminal offence or whether it's a certain irregularity, whether or not that person's whistle is difficult for me at this point to answer that question, I don't have enough elements to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88360	I'm a colleague of Deur's. Just turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88361	Thank you, Your Honor. Here is the law on corruption, the bill of law and the Law on conflict of interest, and today the protection of applicants. It's something that gives security and the applicants themselves more courage, but all of us, it's a duty for every citizen to report nepotism, certain spheres in society that show that it's not going well. But what interests me very much and what concerns me and here we have seen our mayor fall into a conflict of interest after six months that has come to power, have come to the attention of the Zagreb people that they will not be in corruption, nepotism, in conflict of interest. Today, scaring citizens in another way by firing and other things that I am deeply concerned about as a citizen of this city. Here, please, can you say something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88362	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88363	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I said on several occasions, so we have one set of regulations that certainly goes in the direction of reducing corruption or changing perceptions in the fight against corruption where the bodies involved in all these activities are strengthened. One of these activities that we have taken is the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so certainly all public function holders are expected to have responsible, transparent treatment, treatment that does not lead to a concrete conflict of interest. So here are the mayors of the city of Zagreb but also the holders of the executive authority, i.e. all public officials, all public officials are expected to act in accordance with the positive legal rules if we talk about this area of prevention of corruption, which is above all also the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but also to respect these laws relating to persons who report certain irregularities that do not lead to revenge, shakaning and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88364	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that you have left room to increase your sentences for employers after the replica of your colleague, because the fine of 10 000 kuna or several tens of thousands of kuna will certainly not deter the employer from violating the provisions of this law. Secondly, I'd like to ask you a specific question about the whistlers themselves. We understand that if the whistler reports it, or the applicant reports it and then the employer does not respect the provisions of this law, the applicant is fired. He needs to get to a court epilogue from something to live on. Have you considered how to help this man since he has a family, since he too needs to have his own life needs? How will the state help him until the court is resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88366	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88367	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, therefore, in these situations, if they occur, then judicial protection is allowed. Therefore, there is an action which can be applied or which can be filed by the competent municipal court. Therefore, it is a case brought to the municipal court, and with that action, a person may request the provisional measure to be imposed, in which case, the provisional measure itself and the action itself shall go in the direction of prohibiting a certain act of revenge and the removal of certain consequences of the employer’s behaviour towards the worker. What I would point out is that the procedure before the Municipal Court is urgent, that an emergency procedure should be resolved, and that the decision on a temporary measure must be taken within eight days so that we have decided to protect workers through these mechanisms. I must point out that we have not thought about any fee or other form of payment to the applicant himself at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88368	Thank you. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88369	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, it is clear that the attorney general and her office are an important link in the logistics of protecting the applicant of irregularities. It has also been said on committees that there are not enough administrative capacity, so there you have jumped in with five new employees, or employees, and she is looking for another official, and I hope you will also go out to meet, but I do not understand that the building in which the Ombudsman's office has a red label, and it is clear that Minister Horvat and his ministry are not very effective and not at all effective in restoring, how do you think to solve the spatial issue because she said that some employees don't even have a desk at which they can sit and work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88370	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In the opening, I pointed out that we had intensive conversations with and I personally with the attorney general, but also with her office. We are solving the problem of staff capacity, of course, in accordance with the acts and decisions that exist on employment, but also with the general acts adopted by the Ombudsman's office, so that we will certainly follow up upon the entry into force of this law all activities or inflows of applications and react if the attorney general feels the need to increase human resources naturally in accordance with the general acts governing the establishment of the Ombudsman's office. I can point out that we are actively communicating on the topic of solving spatial capacities, and I believe that within the shortest time period we will solve this issue and that, you can also ask the attorney general, so we are working intensively on it and we will try to solve this issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88371	And here's your last colleague, Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88372	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, surely the aim of passing this law is to protect whistles as best as possible. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 28. we are scheduled to act in public disclosure of irregularities, so I am interested, here are provided for two conditions that must be met in order to protect those who publicly report irregularities, but in Article 3 of this article says that the article does not apply to cases where a person directly discloses information to the media on the basis of specific provisions of domestic law which establish a protection system in respect of freedom of expression and information. It seems to me that under that "can" almost all of the premonition, so I wonder why we even prescribe these two conditions, wouldn't it be better to simply say that public applicants of irregularities have protection as well as everyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88373	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88374	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we have three channels of reporting irregularities, so internal, external and public disclosure. Of course, internal and external reporting are somehow these channels that allow for better and stronger protection of the applicant himself. Of course, if there is no specific reaction through these two forms of communication or reporting, we have that third form, so public disclosure of irregularities. Here I believe that today's debates on boards or plenary sessions will therefore come up with certain proposals, so here we can consider your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88375	Thank you Minister, no more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, first of all is a respected colleague, Vucilović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88376	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. We all remember the Watergate affair, but who else remembers William Mark Felt? Only before death did the man say that he was just a deep throat and he was the whistle that was the key person without whom the Watergate affair would never be found out. The Enron affair is another one we all know absolutely. Often, we students also point out that as one of the affairs when we talk about financial irregularities, but no one remembers or a few Sharon Watkins who was vice president for corporate development and who just took that irregularity out in Enron. Often and quickly, let us forget the names of people who have shown exceptional civic courage. They usually get fired, they're sanctioned. Despite the laws, they find it difficult to achieve a degree of protection that would not only be sufficient but also necessary in these situations. They are exposed to environmental condemnations, and let us not forget that in all this story they are very often individuals who are the most exposed revenges of far more powerful individuals and institutions, and even whole systems. And once a whistler points to an irregularity, the trial goes on for years. The outcome is very often uncertain. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, HS passed a law based on which whistles were supposed The opposition then claimed that the law would remain only a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, they were right. What happened in these few years, has something changed, are whistles better protected than before? Most of the time, no. The freshest example is Mrs. Devereaux. The brush that discovered irregularities in the Kutin city government and as well as numerous prior to it has been replaced by a job that the new director has abolished because he says there is no need for this job, the translation has fired as well as numerous whistles before. And in vain, it says clearly in the law that there must be no discrimination, there must be no abuse by the employer and the threat of dismissal. Croatia has ratified as usual all conventions and recommendations, but it is a weak comfort for people who have had the courage to point to irregularities. One of the mechanisms for protecting the applicant is to prevent retribution. And now I have to ask the question my colleague Miletic asked who will and in what way help Mrs. Cretilla from Kutina not to get fired? What is the mechanism under the current law, but also on the proposal of this new one, which is the institution that will apply this mechanism so that another whistler does not get fired? Because we need to know that there are already mechanisms in the existing law, but they obviously don't apply or are not well-formed because it's just crucial to protect the applicants of irregularities or as we generally call them whistles of retribution. Because if we don't, then how can we expect anyone to report irregularities if they're exposed after that to chicing, if they lose their jobs, if they lose their jobs, the source of income? That's the key thing. And here's one more time I'm going to repeat what I asked the minister in the replica. We have a case with the CNB, with the highest instance, means the current president of the state is asking only one question, he is not concerned with whether they are justified, but rather with where the AKDD's data came from because these data are classified. So he's still pointing out wonders and stresses that it's a crime because it's crucial to him that a journalist came up with information that he shouldn't have come up with. Well, every company's business has classified information, many are classified just as classified data, and each manager signs a work contract that commits itself to keeping business secrets. But what if just some of this data is evidence of business irregularities? In the law that is before us in art. 28. restrictions shall be imposed on the public detection of irregularities which may not occur before the person first submits the application to internal and external channels. So he says he can go public only when appropriate measures have not been taken to respond to the application or if an irregularity can pose a direct or obvious risk to public interest as in the event of a crisis situation or the risk of irreparable damage and in the event of external reporting, there is a risk of revenge or the chances of an irregularity being effectively removed low due to the specific circumstances of the case. So there's always a risk of revenge, so all the whistlers got fired, they were all subject to some sort of retribution. So they can all go public right now, and these first two channels of reporting don't have to use at all because if he got fired all the way to one, that means he was at risk of retribution. It is also quite broadly set, as counterpart Jelkovac said, so it will be extremely difficult to assess what is and when in any of these categories. There are good things about this law, not only to be critical, but I'm going to focus a little on what the attorney general said in her report for 2020. So she was doing 45 applications that year, 13 was transferred from 2019. Of the 32 newly admitted 10, they concerned state authorities, seven public services, five units of local and regional self-government, five employers in the economy and crafts mean only five employers in the economy and crafts, three bodies with public authority and two legal persons whose founder is state or local government. It only means five from the so-called. the real sector is what we like to call it, all of this is about institutions that are directly or indirectly connected to the state. From the above we can see quite clearly where the problem lies, it is obviously in the pre-named state that acts with a number of irregularities through public services, state bodies, excessive units of local self-government, legal persons i.e. undertakings established by the State or local government. Apparently, there are too many of them, and they're still doing a lot of irregularities. And this is another reason to cut down on a huge state apparatus that is often a purpose for itself, and even our ministers complain of excessive administrative procedures, forgetting that they are at the head of institutions that could reduce it. The latter is the example of Minister Horvat, who pointed out this as one of the factors that make the process of reconstruction more difficult. We all need to be encouraged to think, but also to act on the final census. So if we see that we have a whole series of institutions that are directly or indirectly connected to the state, and in them are exactly the irregularities that we're talking about today, then maybe, in accordance with this census data, we should think about and see how that and the number of officials, starting with HS, and it's downgraded to population data. The territorial reconstruction is also something that has long been spoken of, but nothing is done. Obviously, we need far fewer units of local self-government, but this is a topic that we have yet to open, although it is within the jurisdiction of this ministry. And in the end, I'm just going to say that there are good things in this proposal about protection. I only warmly hope that there will be enough honorable and brave judges in the courts to apply the provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88377	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will now speak the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88378	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Another amendment to the law this time to the Law on whistles or whistles or how the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity, which is largely the result of compliance with EU directives, would point out once again the relevance and importance for the legal security of citizens and businesses, whether it is national money or whether it is EU money when laws such as this are harmonised with EU directives or liquids. It would be good if such a relationship, such a positive relationship, were in other aspects such as the issue of economic equality, the technological development of our country compared to the more developed EU countries, but obviously we will have to make a political effort to achieve that plan. As far as the proposed law is concerned, what I must establish as a representative and as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities who has already held a debate on this bill is the openness of the proposal promoters and of the additions to this proposal that they have submitted to the debate in the assembly, and that is good. In this spirit, I will make a number of remarks and at the same time propose on this existing proposal, with a good part of it in line with the views of the Ombudsman, who, in this case, is actively involved in the debate over this law and the improvement of its provisions. First of all, as regards primary legal aid to whistlers, the law provides, this proposal foresees that this depends on the property censorship. Since whistles or whistles do not do so for the protection of their own interests, their financial or other property rights or any other kind of rights, but rather do so from the reson or ratio of public interest, the protection of the public goods, the protection of the public order, the protection of the financial or material goods, then it seems to me that retaining a provision under which support will depend on the legal protection of whistles and whistles whose actions can be extremely expensive and long-term, and on financial or material status is something that does not contribute to the legal certainty of people who decide to make such risky moves and such demanding moves in the interests of public good public finances and public order. So, regardless of the property status of the Member State. The 11th point 5 should be amended so that, independently of the public order, whistles and whistles have the right to free legal aid. The second is in the same article, given the high degree of pressure that whistles and whistles other than providing free legal assistance, there would be no harm in predicting free psychosocial assistance. It's an extremely stressful and extremely risky job where people can't be left alone. Many people can applaud on the side or at the end, but when the whole business takes place in the middle of nowhere, many will be afraid and therefore these people must not be left without adequate help, this belongs to that species. As regards sanctions for offenders, the provisions of Art. In the 37th to 40th, they say that the penalty should be as much as I remember about 50,000 kunas, which is for a whole series of companies, and even the individuals are actually too little money. Penalties should work, these types of sanctions should act preventively. If the penalty is too low as we know, and in other cases it will not act preventively, not only if it is not there but if it is unsuspecting, if it is too low, then it cannot act preventively. That's why we're proposing to Mr. Minister that you consider increasing that sentence. In relation to internal and external reporting, therefore external reporting, e.g. All right, the attorney general or the internal application in the middle of which the irregularity observed for which conscience or moral sense or the sense of respect for the law is considered by someone from a working environment to react, we think that, as the attorney general so well explains and explains equally well, that if two processes are under way, one due to internal application, and the other because of external application that because of legal certainty, on the one hand, legal efficiency, and on the other hand because of the potential to conflict these two legal processes would be good to merge it into one process and to find such a solution in the law to go either on the other hand, on the inside, or on the external application, or on the external application. Not to go one and the other. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25 in St. 2 should state that internal reporting of irregularities takes precedence over external reporting of irregularities, if reporting can be effectively resolved internally and if the applicant considers that there is no risk of revenge. Why? I'll give you two reasons. The first reason is that it is always better to solve it in the middle where, for both the applicant and the applicant, it is better to solve in the environment in which the irregularity is made, if possible in accordance with the provisions of the law. The second reason is that the Attorney General's Office as a place where external applications are coming in, we're afraid it's still not capacitated enough, and I'm going to say something about that in the end, so that I can accept all the applications that come from outside, with all the jobs that he normally has. We therefore propose that, independently of the directive, it is suggested that internal registration has an advantage over external reporting. Then, by law, this proposal of the Law was proposed to supplement the article. 42, i.e. the proposed article. 42, we propose that it be complemented by the Ministry of Justice, which is the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the EU Commission provides statistics collected by the Ombudsman, the Advocate General, the authorities responsible for handling the content of the applications, and, if necessary, by other participants who can dispose of the necessary information. For what? So because the Department of Justice can have a more complete set of information than can be given by the attorney general and the Attorney General's office. It may change that, but so far it is not and it is not realistic that the Ministry of Justice can give a more incomplete report to the Commission, as well as to the other actors in communication with the Commission, which is the attorney general or the Attorney General's Office not but whether the Advocate General himself is. And finally, space and personnel for the Attorney General's Office. That's got to go away. What's done must be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88379	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HSLS and Reformers, and will be spoken by respected representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88380	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the idea of protecting whistles is not a novelty, in its.../incomprehensible/... is based on the general freedom of speech just like our liberal democratic society in which everyone has the right to express their opinion in social development, even in the fact that it is unacceptable and not correct. The proposal for a law that we are discussing relates precisely to the protection of persons who are critical of certain irregularities, and therefore its adoption and the current improvement is of exceptional social importance. This proposal improves the existing legal framework in that area so that reported infringements of the legal rules can be achieved without violence against a person pointing to irregularity. Such action is possible only if there is freedom of expression, but also the rights of whistles not to suffer revenge and judicial mechanisms to protect the rights of those persons. People are often afraid to express their opinion because of the fear of reaction and sanctions of their immediate environment. Corruption has existed since when there is power, and corruption is unfortunately an unwanted consequence of power and is in some way derived from the human nature of individuals. Given that the state functions on behalf of the State are performed by individuals, their abuse and harm to society and other individuals and their rights, and in particular the right to good administration, which is to the greatest extent threatened by just corrupt actions. The HSLS assesses this proposal as positive, given several of its principles, firstly, it would point out, they are entitled to European legal standards for the protection of whistles that are currently the highest of such standards in legal denials and globally. Secondly, the legal and social position of whistles as an individual is strengthened, which so far were rarely in a subordinate position, compared to individuals or organisations, to their most common working environment. In this sense, this bill further increases the space of equality and equality of chance, which we as liberals always support unreservedly. Third, the strengthening of the legal position and the protection of whistles is strengthened by a de facto of another of the available mechanisms of combating corruption, which, if not contained, weak institutions, which is the deep causes of inequality in society, and as a fourth, in this proposal of the Law, further enriches the fund of democratic values, which we consider particularly important given the Croatian socio-political transition, whose negative features, no doubt, are the harmful perception of lawlessness and culture of opportunism, popularly called adolescence. In this respect, this proposal of the Corruption Act seeks to contain itself at this very micro-level, the level of individuals whose position is further strengthened in relation to corrupt actions that gnaw citizens' confidence in institutions and lead to distorted values of social values without which there is no mutual trust and cooperation between members of society, and consequently neither effective nor productive communities. However, such a positive practice, these political and cultural traditions cannot be established by law overnight, they are established only by their continued tactics over a long period of time, but we consider this bill a very positive initial step in establishing appropriate institutional frameworks for the development of anti-corruption culture. In this regard, we also consider in particular the positive legislative plan explicitly set out in this bill, which concerns the continued implementation of educational activities related to the application of this law under the new Strategy to prevent corruption for the period of '21. until '30. in order to strengthen the judicial protection of whistles, including the implementation of measures to improve the cooperation and coordination of authorities responsible for handling the content of the notification of irregularities, and to improve the digital way of reporting during the external application body. As liberals, we find it particularly important that the legislator has clearly defined himself and used his authority as an intended article. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. Directive 219/1937 on the protection of persons who declare infringement of Union law which is transposed by this Regulation, which provides for the possibility, or the authority of each Member State, to extend the protection of views, areas or actions which are not explicitly prescribed by that Directive under national law. Corruption is always so-called national policy. It is our own courtyard, which we always decide on on our own, and it is always an area, and unfortunately, especially in Croatia, there is room for action and correction plans. In this context, it is important to take into account the specific Croatian political and social opportunities that require further expansion of the area towards the protection of whistles in relation to those provided for in European legislation. The HSLS also supports the opinion highlighted in the framework of the public consultation on this draft law on ensuring psychosocial assistance to whistles. First of all, we do not seem to understand the legislator correctly that the justification of such assistance could only possibly result from the need established in future practice because, as the whistle protection centre specifically stated, there is already research that clearly points to the need for such assistance because of the established psychosocial problems and the difficulty of whistles. This is why we propose to the legislator that the law already applies preventive access to the mental difficulties of citizens, which would show a clear and valuable commitment to abandoning the understanding of psychosocial aid as a means that is only possible. In fact, the provision of psychosocial assistance to whistlers guarantees a consistent strengthening of their position in line with the purpose of this bill, which is absolutely positive and necessary because professional support to whistlers is once again a means of strengthening their position in terms of their independence, which is why they still enjoy the special protection provided for by this law. Without the proper work of the judiciary and the judiciary, there is no protection of the rights provided for by this law, as well as political ideas relating to the role of freedom in a successful liberal democratic society. Therefore, in addition to the unequivocal support of this bill, I warn that without the improvement of the work of the judiciary, they will rarely remain just a dead letter on paper whose exclusive guarantee is to protect the judiciary from abuse and subsequent and universal erosion and trust in society. Although it is not, of course, the subject of this bill, and even these discussions, it is important to point out the unbreakable link between these two areas and our liberal commitment to their coordinated and continuous harmonisation if we want to move in society to protect all whistles and citizens who want to act independently on the criticism of negative phenomena in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88381	Next will be the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, and will speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88382	By following the parliamentary debates, I note that we are too often just speakers not to say readers from the blubber of other people's readings that we represent as our own, and much less what we should really be persons who are independently and critically questioning the texts sent to us by certain citizens or institutions and who make their own contribution to the reading of the law once they have processed the data they have received and carefully read the letter of the proposed law. On this trail, I could, for example, take what the Ombudsman has sent us, present this as my own proposal, and without any independent contribution bring out what has already been said by the official institution. We heard something yesterday about the assembly being too often a freak show, so I'd be standing here telling me that the assembly seems too often to be a copy paste show and I hope that we'll change that practice. In that sense I will look back at two things in this presentation and the name of the Bridge Club and try to make some of our own contribution. One will be from the public defender's perspective, whose part of the proposal I support, but I find the part questionable, and I don't think it goes in favor of the whistler. The second part of my review will, of course, go from the player's perspective and their suggestions. Of course, the introduction may be unnecessary to mention how much Croatia has a problem with corruption, but to make things more interesting is not the only problem Croatia has, we often even point out only corruption too often. When we look at what happened with the renovation, or did not happen to be more precise, Croatia has a much greater problem with the inability of the authorities. And it is very important to point out because too often they are thought to be corrupt but are at least competent or as Mr. Bačić said, the president of the HDZ Club only has the capacity to manage Croatia. For example, the restoration that did not occur shows that they are not only corrupt but also incompetent. But I'll go back to this part about corruption. In the first row, when we look at the way this law applies, or the scope of the law, more precisely Article 4, we see that the EU's financial interests are very detailed and protected. In this regard, my question is whether, perhaps given what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, it is possible that, when we have already gone to call the scope of the law, we should be more specific about both the state budget and some of the other things that this law should deal with as an area of their application. The whistlers are extremely important about this already there have been words. They're important because they're the ones who can see, and then report corruption inside. What whistles previously pointed out as a problem is the exceptionalness of cases of external corruption reporting. It's very important to them. We live in the Republic of Croatia and we understand why that's the case. In fact, the internal reporting of irregularities that we all agree should function is clear to us that in practice it has not come to life, and I question whether it will ever actually be able to live. From small companies where everyone knows each other regardless of what they will now have a person from trust to the fact that if a person chooses 20%, at least 20% of the workers are a person who is directly or indirectly very often connected to the employer because he controls the minimum of those 20% of his employees. So I'm going to stay here and think that this external reporting is extremely important. And I don't agree with the Advocate General, who understands her fear that they may not currently be able to submit the role assigned to them here, according to Article 26, to be the only competent authority to report irregularities, given that they may not be able to do so at the moment, but I don't think they should move those provisions where the focus is placed on internal reporting until this externally makes an exception unless the internal one works. We need to make the job easier for whistlers and give them as many choices as possible of institutions they can contact and that will protect them in case of suspicion of any irregularities. Nor is it good that there is no external application, and it is not good at this present proposal that restricts it only to the attorney general. If we are to expand the circle of external notifiers, the external institutions to which we can report irregularities will also facilitate the job of the Ombudsman and establish a more positive practice for our whistles that is certainly needed. As far as this Article is concerned, Article 26 and the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities concern that there is indeed a great power of attorney’s office here. However, what is not in accordance with that power is the way in which the criteria under which they should implement this same procedure are specified or not laid down. For example, it is said here in Article 26 that the application of irregularities within a reasonable period of time will, in a safe manner, be forwarded to bodies authorised to act. We know it's a legal language, we know it's a common floscula, but we know how late these deadlines are, and here the problem of such principle is not solved but deepened. By what criteria will that be? Then you have that in your annual report, the Croatian Parliament, they will also report to the Croatian Parliament on these applicants irregularities, and may be more often when it comes to the threat of constitutional and legal rights of a greater degree or significance. We do not know what the higher level or importance will be again, given that no criteria have been set out obviously on the evaluator's assessment. Furthermore, you have paragraph 9 that information will be forwarded in a timely manner to other EU institutions and bodies as appropriate. To what need? What are the criteria for need? Are we going to leave this exclusively with implementing acts and how these implementing acts that have so much power and give the attorney's hand we don't know it here, and we're the legislative body that should confirm these amendments and bear in mind that they have to go in favour of whistles. Furthermore, they will do so on websites in an easily accessible form and everything else. So what I see here as a problem is that it's about a series of flossules that have no clear criteria, or give clear instructions to the attorney for action, while bringing her down to the only institution that will be able to act as an institution that can be reported externally. And here I don't agree with her that we should put a focus on internal reporting, yes, we all want a functional internal system, but we need to be aware of our reality and know that whistles need to leave a wider space than our utopian desires. What's important from the whistle's perspective is also that in Article 9. Article 2 is replaced by the following: Therefore, to further discuss the conditions in which whistles should be protected and mistreated. So, the saying is that they're pissed. Also, there are some suggestions that are useful and should be pointed out from the public defender's perspective. In addition to Article 11(5), the right to free legal aid should not be linked to property censorship but should all have free legal assistance if they have put a general benefit above any of their own interests and we cannot do any criterion of property censorship. If you have more, then you'll pay for it if you decide to become a whistler. This certainly is not good in a society where no whistler’s judicial process ever came to life. And that's our reality, and actually our shame. And that should be borne in mind because we have only now come to a more systematic regulation of one law because of the directive, and not because we have become aware that here since 2015 we are minimal if today's Transparency International report we are not going to move from a dead spot when we talk about corruption that is otherwise not referred to anywhere, and should be when we talk about whistles and the Republic of Croatia because what else is going to be reported irregularly. So, what I want to conclude with, and I'm going to continue in an individual debate because there's more material to be pointed out is that we're not a copy paste assembly because it makes us a freak show, we should give our own contribution here, not to be spokesmen of any institution, even if there's an institution of the attorney general who is our own. An extended arm. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88383	The next one will be the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, and a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88384	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is a small, beautiful free country but is bound by corruption that bites our society and does not allow us to grow up as we should. What's the problem? In management or in society as a whole? We need to identify these gray zones that lead to the spread of corruption and adopt serious measures to eradicate these causes. What's bad is the impression that the guilty are not being punished, so it's kind of an incentive for others to deal with corrupt activities. Instead of the DORH acting, to process those who do corrupt activities, the DORH is silent and doing nothing. And what kind of message do we send to the public? It is the impression that corruption has become desirable and quite normal in our society and that we must fight together, and that is why we are today and here, and today it is on our agenda so-called. The whistle-sniffing law. Does the promoter even know how many whistlers there really are in Croatia? A few of them are very media-exposed. They remained their own battle of water in courts for years, like Dubravka Shokanec. After reporting the irregularities of her superior, she was out of a job. Many whistlers launched labor disputes but gave up after a first-degree court decision in favour of the employer. It is easier for an employer to find witnesses who, because of fear of losing their jobs or perhaps stimulating falsely and testify. Then they give up because it's hard to fight the windmills they say. I'm sick, I'm depressed, I'm getting threatening messages on a daily basis, I'm afraid for my family, I turned out to be a bigger criminal than them because I dared speak publicly, just some of the stories. There are few who are brave and persistent to go all the way, expose corruption and bring them to justice. But then they need someone to protect them. Why is the protection of whistles important to society? In addition to the role of whistlesmen necessary to combat corruption, the new law should strengthen the awareness of individuals about reporting irregularities. They are the ones who sacrificed their existence, their peace, who put the Stigm on themselves and their entire family because they do not want to participate in the wicked acts, and then these people need to be protected. Unfortunately, from Mrs. Lepoy's first whistle to the current last whistles of Andriana Cvrtila and Maja Djerak, we have witnessed that neither society nor institutions have anointed them nor protected them. And precisely the objective of this law should be to prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities and to protect them. We can see from the previous examples of complaints for the protection of applicants of irregularities that the current law has only been an attempt to regulate and regulate this area, but the protection of whistles has not been brought into practice. It is therefore necessary to pass a law that will allow adequate protection to whistlers. In order for the new bill not only to remain on cosmetic amendments to the current law, we propose the following amendments. Article 9(2) is proposed to add and warn before the cancellation or warning of the obligation of working relationship, as often employers make warnings before the cancellation of the labour contract to scare the worker and therefore give up further reports of irregularities. According to Article 22(2), we propose that it be deleted. In fact, it often happens that an employer appoints a trusted person from a circle of people close to him. On the contrary, it must be an impartial and objective person and it is therefore not recommended that the employer appoints himself a trusted person without a worker. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. increase the number of employees who choose a trusted person due to the fact that the employer can often control 20% of the workers. Article 21 should be extended to the possibility of reporting irregularities in the internal reporting of irregularities and to all other bodies in the employer who are obliged and authorised to report irregularities, reports of corrupting actions or fraud if the application concerns irregularities, suspected acts or fraud. In fact, often workers report irregularities and other bodies to the employer which, out of ignorance, and because of the fact that there is no designated confidential person in the employer or not to believe it. It is therefore necessary to extend the circle of persons to report irregularities and thus extend the protection of whistles. The legislator, just like this, makes it impossible to provide adequate protection by prescribing competent persons. It is also not prescribed to act in the event that a confidential person is not appointed in the employer, so this is more a reason for extending to other employers' bodies. Article 24(2), point 3., is replaced by the following: Since internal reporting may result in a leak of the identity of the applicant of irregularities and therefore in the revenge of the employer. The procedure for reporting irregularities should be urgent. Article 26. We believe that there is also a need to extend the circle of competent authorities for the external reporting of irregularities here. Namely, Article 117. The labour law prescribes a wider circle of persons to whom an employer can be registered. While this lex specialis that should protect whistles narrows down the circle of people in charge of reporting and thus the protection of whistles. School on the same, but related to art. Article 5(3) of the proposed law should also be laid down that, even in the case of direct application of bodies authorised to comply with the content of the application in accordance with a specific law to applicants, this law should be applied, and then those bodies shall also be deemed to be competent for the external non-report of irregularities. If the same is not prescribed, there would be an absurd situation so that this law does not protect the whistler who filed a criminal application to the competent state attorney's office and has therefore been fired. Art. The 27th century 5th, I believe that it is too long to resolve after reporting irregularities, and that it needs to be shortened because of the specific situation of whistlers and the possibility of revenge. Art. 34. We believe that in the event of the protection of whistles, it is necessary to prescribe that the applicant does not have to prove or make possible violence or the occurrence of irreparable damage that threatens art. 346th century 1st. 2. It's a law of law. Namely, because of the particular situation of whistlers and the objective of this law, it is necessary to disable manipulation by the employer. Employers often resign for reporting irregularities so that the applicant would not, in order for the notifier to be able to execute, be brought to justice. Whatever law we have whistles will actually always experience unpleasantness, usually losing jobs and finding new ones very difficult. In working disputes, this is generally treated as carrying, harming the employer, loyalty and justifiable cause of termination. Therefore, in addition to the need for a new law to strengthen the awareness of individuals about reporting irregularities, which is necessary to combat corruption whistles to the law should be protected. It is therefore necessary to pass a law that will allow adequate protection of whistles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88385	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP, and time will be shared by respected MPs Michel Jaksic and Barbara Antolic Vupra. First of all, Honored Representative Michel Jaksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88386	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice, above all a good day to everyone. It usually happens to us that we have discussions about laws concerning the Ministry of Justice when there is either a big affair or there are some new measurements and indicators where we are like Croatia and how some things look about us when they look on the side. Today we have information on one portal where we are by measure of corruption and we see that in society we are truly prominent African countries that cannot be raised by anything but dictatorship. That's obviously the starting point we're starting with today. On behalf of the SDP Club, I must say that this first reading of the legal amendments and the bill will be supported because we believe that every step forward, even if it was ultimately just a declaration, is something to support, but what we expect to do in both these discussions and the future amendments and in respect of everything that has been given to us as a proposal by the attorney general, we take very seriously, and that we all work together to fix everything that will show up in the debates so that it would be good to do otherwise, to show that there is room for justice in this country, that there is room for equality and that there is space, strength and energy for a decisive calculation of corruption that we really have to recognise regardless of what political sex we have come into these 30s. She has done enormously much damage to this country and to this society, and when we talk about, for example, demographics, we must honestly admit that corruption has a significant role to play here, if not the most significant part of the numbers that we have. But before this law itself, let us ask ourselves the question of what we have produced or achieved with that previous law that we are now changing, which we also talked about foreordaining, that we are harmonizing with Europe because the result of that law was injustice to Mrs. Lepoj, it was an injustice to Mr URIHO, Mr. Klaric, Mr. Osmanovic, is an injustice we now see in Kutina and could list many more cases where whistles protected public interests, but by protecting public interests they actually destroyed their private lives and the existence of their private families. Will this law go the way to correct the wrongs we have done to these people, so have they dared and dared to fight the system? The second question we need to ask ourselves is that despite all these parameters that we are going to change and make them better, and in accordance with European directives, we must in no way interfere with what she said today at the Committee of Justice today. The attorney general, which is that, in addition to legislative changes, it is also necessary to invest in resources, from them working in a building today where not everyone has their own desk until it is obvious that further staffing and investment in personnel will be necessary to protect all those who need protection in the fight against the system, in the fight against corruption, in the fight against the withdrawal of public funds from our citizens in private pockets. We didn't get those answers today, we avoid them quite a bit, and it turns out who in the debate on the state of the Croatian judiciary or on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of law when mentioned, a lot of things is being avoided, but when we come up with something to make it easier for these people to function on a daily basis and, let's say, the state's attorney's office really has the best quality of staff, and not those who go after punishment we don't get answers. And the last question that we have to answer when we're discussing this law is whether it's enough, whether it's really a change in the whistles law, whether it's really a change, and whether God forbid they're very positive for the status of the attorney general and her co-workers can be something we've been looking for, because I'm personally afraid, and we've been having a lot of discussion at the club about having no significant changes in the state's attorney's office in the Croatian judiciary alone, or this bill on whistles and giving some new and stronger powers to the occupier won't be enough because we're going to get back into a situation that someone will personally expose themselves, that maybe through and get some satisfaction. But without the quality and adequate work of the State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian judiciary in the end, the result will be nothing but a little entertainment for the public and a lot of personal patience for those people who will show that one personal, social responsibility and courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88387	It will now continue on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88388	The respected before us is therefore a small step that will be on the way to the protection of whistles, those who, by name and last name, have stepped into the protection of the public, in the protection of what is equally important to us all. However, only some are willing to expose their existence, their family to what they have been through and names, past people who have left their lives on the road. From Vesna Balenović, Vlatko Klaric, Adriana Cvrtila, and in the end, Ankica Lepoj are the fates that prove that this law is not enough and that there must be, therefore, an institution that will have a name and give meaning to what they have advocated and in what they have built their whole lives into. I hope, therefore, that both the Government and the Ministry will accept the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, that one of the recognitions of the Croatian Parliament be named after Ankica Lepay as one who has indeed witnessed with her life what it is and what happens to those people who dare to speak. So, the fact is that the only thing society can give back to whistlers is to give them credit, to sort of make up for all those years they spent fighting for proving that what they said was actually used by our Croatian society. They saved us millions, directed the behavior of future generations. So, the least we can do is go towards the aftermath and guidelines that are prescribed and the network of European whistle protection bodies whose attorney-in-law is our member, to be one of the institutions named by name, to get its telephone number and name, as the SCOK has it, as has the Commission for Protection, to prevent conflicts of interest and other bodies. So it's important that the authorities that are fighting corruption eventually show what's wrong with society give us a name, give us a phone number, give us meaning in society. So, once again, I call on everyone not to make a difference in party colors, to really bring public protection into the protection of honesty and to give them the necessary respect, to provide them through a new body so that this activity within the fight against corruption has to exist systematically and appointed, so on the one hand, as a prize of the Croatian Parliament by Ankica Lepej, and on the other hand, a body established, an agency that systematically monitors and supports the work of whistlers and not only in the sense of public defender and trusted persons, but that there is also a body, a central body that would protect the interests and protect the rights of whistlers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88389	Now, on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Katarina Nemet, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88390	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a new law before us that the applicants of irregularities so-called. whistlers should get more and more appropriate protection, which we as a club IDS generally welcome. It should be said, however, that we are aware that this new law is adopted primarily because of the need to bring national legislation into line with the acquis, i.e. with a directive that recognises the need for effective protection of persons who report acts of harmful public interest. We hope therefore that this law will go in this direction, that it will further encourage and motivate as many people as possible, our citizens, to oppose corruption, illegalities, irregularities or injustices in their working and living environment. Because the hand to heart currently in Croatia does not often come across an understanding and positive reaction. However, once they disclose and report irregularities, they are rarely stigmatized, exposed to convictions and labels. They're coming into a situation where they're fighting against some powerful men and their systems in which they've touched the nests of their own. Unfortunately, there are cases where people lose their jobs for this reason, their lives collapse privately and professionally, and their entire families suffer. Croatia, as we know, has very few famous whistles, i.e. very few that have been found out in public especially in relation to numerous corruption and other affairs that each one has shaken our country so much. The most famous among them in these 30 years of Croatian independence is certainly Mrs. Ankica Lepej, who remembers to reveal the secrets or undeclared accounts of the Tudjman family. For this, we also remember being rewarded by firing, and the additional reward was also a criminal procedure for noting the official secret. In other words, because of her civic courage, her life was practically destroyed, the irony of fate, symbolism, or something else. But the fact that a few days after Mrs. Lepay died unfortunately in the Assembly we are discussing this bill that should help to make cases like hers never happen again or at least make them as few as possible. There are, however, some other Croatian whistles that were not known so much in public, which also went through painful court proceedings. Unfortunately, we were out of a job. It has happened and it is regrettable that the responsible and moral people who dare to oppose negative phenomena in society, rather than having the support and protection of the system, are mostly punished and brought to an end. Instead of rewarding and acknowledging for his courageous and moral act, very often what people of age would say by their fingers. Knowing all this is hard to expect someone to just point out irregularities in their working or living environment, to show their civic courage and responsibility because being exposed to the risk of having to go through a painful trial, so you can lose your job, destroy your life believe no one wants. It is precisely to encourage people to gain civil courage and responsibility, to point to corruption and crime, while at the same time protecting many countries as appropriate is a special law on their protection. I believe that we all agree that the laws behind such people need to be maximumly stopped and that maximum protection is needed and that to this end we need more than a law that will ensure it. So I repeat, we welcome this new law that should go that way. And this law has its own good, but some less good side. For example, we consider a provision that states that a trusted person, therefore a person whose potential whistler can be trusted, except for the person employed by the employer can now be a third person, so someone in whom the whistler may have more confidence. This is precisely the possibility of internal and external reporting, and in particular the content of reporting irregularities themselves, and better judicial protection and sanctioning are some of the elements of this law that should ensure greater protection and security for applicants or whistles. I will also add that the profession is more or less satisfied with this new bill, considers it more detailed and understandable than the current valid which also encourages and gives hope that it is a good legal basis. On the other hand, we believe that sanctions and penalties defined by this law should be even more stringent and rigorous, in order to motivate potential whistles on the one hand, and on the other hand to deter those who wish to prevent them. It should also be said that the new law will additionally burden the Advocate's Office to which additional responsibilities and obligations can be given, which can mean an operational obstacle given limited resources and capacities. And then we come to the part where the human factor occurs, where all of us who will in our own way help to implement this law in the work, to best use it as a legal basis and platform for what is envisaged – the fight against negative and unwanted phenomena in society, phenomena that benefit individuals, and the damage to society and the rest of the community. As a club IDS, we will therefore support this law, but also publicly this way invite the entire Croatian public, all those who will play an important role in implementing this law to support its effective application and help make Croatia a better place for the lives of all its citizens, especially those who have shown their civic courage and human responsibility and for the benefit of our entire community, for the benefit of all of us who live in this country. And so, dear whistles whistle even stronger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88391	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here today, now, recently as we are discussing the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity was the funeral of Ankica Lepoj, the first Croatian whistlemaker whose disclosure of Tudjman's wife's account unreported in the property card with large amounts of money caused a huge scandal and hysterical defence of the Tudjmans which led to the incredible statement of the President of the Constitutional Court money did not belong to the property. Ankica Lepej was fired because of her courage, honesty and honesty, she was prosecuted, left with no means to live with two children and an unemployed husband. 24 years later, we're discussing a law that should protect all Ankcie Lepoy even better. Well, we could say... Too slow, too slow, but let's hope he's still moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Whistle Act, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, is ahead of us for the second time because of compliance with EU Directive 2019/1937. It should be noted that the deadline for the transposition of the directive into Croatian legislation expired on 17 December of last year, so we are late again. Corruption is the cancer of Croatian society. The birds on the branch of the force of repetition and here in the Parliament, and also in the public, are well aware of that, but there is no real change in the way it is. It is a crime that ultimately undermines democratic institutions, of course slows down economic development and contributes to general social instability and apathy. Nevertheless, corruption is still a welcome social model. Here are as many as 36% of Croatian citizens pulling ties to achieve a public service, for example. in education or in health care, and every seven gave bribes. By the perception of corruption we are among the worst in Europe with an index of 47, we have heard this already today only Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary are behind us. Eurobarometer surveys are a devastating 97% believe that corruption is widespread and that is why we are in an infamous 1 place in Europe. 54% of respondents believe that corruption is particularly affected, again most in Croatia. 15% personally experienced and/or witnessed corruption. Light years away from the situation in Scandinavian countries where corruption is reduced to severe social anomaly and totally unacceptable social behavior. The disaster situation with corruption is also a good picture of the fact that this government has been in the Anti-corruption Strategy since '21st. By the '30s. aims to reduce the perception of corruption to 80%. That is why it is not surprising that 3/4 citizens think the government is not successful in fighting corruption but believe that ordinary people can start changes in the fight against this evil. And therefore this Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity is certainly one of the most important that we will bring in the next period. The whistler law under that name is recognised in public and there are indeed objections in the public debate on the need for the whistler to be incorporated into both the title and the text of this bill. The concept of whistler is superior in the public than in the history of Ankica Lepoj, and since the age of Ankica Lepoj, to this day marks persons who have both had the courage and courage to report irregularities. The phrase whistler is more popular and closer to the citizens, so it can make it easier and more comprehensive to promote desirable behaviour, honesty, respect for the law and defence of public interest. We advocate that until the second reading, you accept the thinking and arguments of the public debate and that the law is called the law on the protection of whistle-tutterers of irregularities and that the concept of whistle-twistling is derived through the text of the law as it is also present in the introduction of this proposal itself. The law is progress compared to the first one in 2019 but there is still a way to move up to the second reading. We agree with the proposal of the Centre for the Protection of Whistles to make it more clear in Article 3 of this Law that it is defined as an effective protection of applicants of irregularities including ensuring available and reliable ways of reporting irregularities and that it is important to promote the prevention of irregularities by strengthening citizens' awareness of the need to report irregularities in order to protect public and national interests. This definition gives us a clear and precise, clear and precise goal, and I think it is really necessary in such a fight against corruption because without it, that fight will not be so effective. What we see as the biggest disadvantages of this proposal is insufficient availability of free legal assistance, as well as abandoning the inclusion of provisions on available forms and ways to achieve psychosocial and psychological support. It is important to legally ensure all conditions for good guidance and the possibility of consulting on the necessary steps in reporting irregularities in order for the law to achieve its objective and its role. This bill provides only primary legal assistance, but this legal aid should be more comprehensively defined and fully secured in order to ensure whistles, irregularities and strengthen them by and after the application. Especially in a possible process that might follow. According to one study in 2018, 85% of whistle-wrestling subjects are also listed in this public debate, suffering from some mental health disorder, anxiety, mistrust in human relations, fear, sensitivity, depression, and 48% of them suffer from such problems even at clinical level. And it is therefore clear and clear that psychological assistance and support are necessary and should be introduced into this law. In addition to the specific assistance prescribed, a clear message will also be sent on this type of whistle protection and will strengthen their role in society in order to make the whistle more positive and more positioning on the scale of desirable and acceptable social behaviour. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the existing system of free legal assistance for free legal aid providers who want to expand their activities in such a way as to provide legal assistance and whistles as well as to enable whistles to be available to psychosocial support services in order to encourage and strengthen people to report to competent services. In 2020, only 45 applications from which 13 were made from 2019 were submitted to the Advocate General. It is evident from this data that this information, that this number is so small because citizens are not properly familiar with the law or the protection provided to whistles. It is therefore important for this law to organise strong promotional activities related to corruption and the reporting of irregularities, it is necessary to inform and encourage citizens to such reporting. Clearly, we need to actually change the social paradigm. Fair conduct is desirable, respect for laws and regulations and respect for all positive social standards is desirable. Unwanted is fraud, theft, bribery, mugging, stealing public goods, breaking the law, putting your own breach above public interest, and for this law, it was also the best in its second reading not enough. Without comprehensive social action, information, incentives to report, but also effective and rapid court proceedings and consequential punishments, nothing will change, people will still be afraid to report because their experience so far teaches them, as we have heard in these discussions a lot of examples, that there are actually no penalties and that illegal and illegal behavior is worth it. A comprehensive social action and a major campaign are the main levers of change and a way for the provisions of this law to actually live in practice and bring benefits to this society. That's the way to go back. huge financial resources, it's a way of restoring trust [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] In institutions, and that's the way to keep it. [[Thank you very much.]] young generations in Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88393	Thank you very much. I'd like to pray we stick to the weather. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nikola Mažar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88394	Dear Vice-President of the HS, Mr Martinovic, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Today, we could hear in the debate so far, or at the club's point of view, that the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity is before us. I would first of all say that the protection of applicants of irregularities is one of the key instruments in the fight against corruption and all other irregularities in our society and that because of this proposal for a law on the protection of applicants irregularity is extremely important, not only as a legal act but also as a strategic document. We could hear that this is one in a series of laws that the Ministry of Administration and the Justice brings about not only with the Anti-Corruption Strategy but also with judicial reform. We had a recent Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was adopted, and so today we have a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. What we could also hear, which is good and repeat, is that it was precisely in the mandate of this Government in 2019 and passed the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, that it came into force on 1 July 2019, and that just before that, the whistlers had no law. They then, through different legal forms and forms, had certain protection related to and protection of identity, related to the application process, related to protection and their designated place of work, but of course until a law was adopted which had all agreed on sublime in one place which had specifically done not only the way of reporting, the procedure and the protection of the applicants simply did not exist that particular protection. What we are doing today is we continue this protection, we continue through the spread and the applicants, we continue through the expansion of the protection, but we continue to improve certain things that have been observed in the past two years through the practice of the current law so that it would be good to improve them, and that is, to improve them, we have seen for the deadlines themselves, or the lifting of certain deadlines. What is certainly good to say, and perhaps we haven't heard today, is that the directive's objective of today's adoption of legislation in the EU area is to encourage citizens of the EU to report violations of the laws and regulations they see in their working environment, irregularities that pose a threat to public interest, but also to provide whistles with better protection from the revenge of employers. Why is that important to mention? Of course, as a full member of the EU, we implement European directives, but it is good to note because today we have heard depending on which political spectrum some information comes from, I would half the information or half the truth, so we mentioned the Transparency International report where the Republic of Croatia has remained in the same place as in the past two years, so it has not progressed, but we can say it has not and has not reversed. But what we haven't heard, we haven't heard that it's essentially the EU or that it's globally related to the overall Transparency International report for the whole world, so it's been found that over 50% of the countries have remained in the past two years. So this is not a situation of the Republic of Croatia, this is not something that is not happening in the EU and this is not something that is not happening in the entire planet. So, looking globally certainly that we can and should work together to improve our RH, I would say 30 years in our human life is a lot to us, and when we look at our relatives, our children and others see that they grow, but if we look at the prism of creating a sovereign, independent state that must pass a certain transition then 30 years in the history of a country is very, very little. And that's why we all have to work together every day so that our still young country that passes its democratic changes we create to be not only to protect whistlers, not only to protect the common and smallest man, but to be the place to live. For this reason, he also rejoiced that in the public debate that preceded the adoption of this law, which was attended not only by the resolution ministry and state bodies but also by all other stakeholders from the Ombudsman's Office to the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of the Republic of Croatia and others expressed their satisfaction with the changes that come with this law, with newspapers that come with this law and have therefore shown support in this law. What, of course, also glad that we are here today before the individual debate could be heard from the opposition's representative that they will support such a bill of law and it certainly shows that not only are the newspapers introduced through the ministry, the judiciary and administration in this law but the recognition and intensity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its fight against corruption, it is recognized that a continuation of the quality of legislation which will certainly contribute to the creation of not only perceptions of corruption reduction but of creation and concrete tools that will enable, above all, any individual to report without fear, an irregularity which he sees, which he recognises, that thanks to the tools offered through this law not only from the protection of identity, not only from the possibility of judicial protection, not only that the possibility of a applicant of irregularities is extended, or which is created by a person of trust who, together with his deputy, will have no full protection which he has yet been created by means of the whole mechanism that we can go from the public office that we can go to the public authorities. Therefore, mechanisms have also been created to ensure that the Ombudsman’s office receives all possible support, not only financial, technical, human net, so the overall mechanisms continue to pass on all applications to all those competent authorities from the state inspectorate, from the DORH, from the tax administration and what is important and perhaps not yet heard today that all these applications do not only end on application but to follow their path, to monitor their action and to finally get a report. It is necessary and important that this part and the reports and feedback be made to the applicant not only for reasons to control the state bodies, whether they acted and acted on the application but also that each notifier already knows in advance that what is to be reported is not in vain but will ultimately be done and concluded. What shows that this law will make strong steps not only in the protection of applicants but also in the fact that certain deadlines have ceased to exist, specifically from 60 days for a person of confidence that he must and can react shows that this one timeless deadline for action on applications will enable them to have one quality approach, with one approach where every application will take as long as it takes time depending on its complexity can investigate from the beginning to the end, that this application will have its own head and tail and what is necessary and what is important now that the support provided through public debate and by the Office of the Public Advocates and from the Alliance of Independent Unions of Republics, and we have seen today here and by the things of the world and opposition will contribute precisely to the fact that not only to quality legal acts that we bring but also to the creation of trust in the institution of the Ombudsmans, the Union of independent unions of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia that we live together with the right to ensure that we are not only those who are able to ensure that the right of society and civil society that they can be able to ensure that the right of society and the right of society that they can be able to ensure that the right of society and civil society that they can be able to ensure that they know that they can be able to make that they know that the right of the right of the right of society and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of society and civil society,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88395	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the Honorable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88396	Thank you to the president, colleagues and colleagues. Today Transparency International published an annual report on the corruption perception index in which the EU is among the world's best regions with an average of 66 points. Unfortunately, Croatia does not belong to the region or is located at the very bottom, and only Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania are still up from us. Croatia lags 19 points behind the EU average. Furthermore, investigating where the country is on a global scale, media have already reported that Croatia is worse than Rwanda and Jordan, according to its indicators. If Croatia was soaked with corruption it is nothing new, they see it with their eyes and feel on their skin numerous of our citizens. There are no public authorities, no institutions at either state or regional or local level where there are not at least a few people who might or should be whistles, because malversions take place daily at all levels in front of our eyes. Dear MPs and MPs, distinguished citizens, I urge you to ask yourself what would actually happen if all these persons started to expose those irregularities that they found out literally on a daily basis in their environment. I am convinced that according to the system, the domino effect would collapse not only this HDZ rule, which is nearing the end anyway, much more than if all the potential whistles that are now bewitched in the ministries, in the counties, in the cities, in the municipalities, in the state and other public companies and institutions took what is in the public interest, so that what the authorities know would collapse not only the HDZ but also the entire system created by the HDZ and from which it draws its power and power. The fight against corruption begins with the initiatives and actions of whistles, and if they are not there, they are nowhere near the extent to which, in this state, such widespread corruption should be in the logic of things, which is proof that there is something seriously wrong with the system. Is this Law something that the whistle’s position is fundamentally changing? I firmly and responsibly claim not to be. Is HDZ, a political party who herself as a legal person legally convicted of corruption in the interest of enabling the initial impulse to protect whistles by appropriate protection in the fight against corruption? Well, of course not. This Law is a beautiful reading book, but more or less a dead letter on a paper that gives whistles some rights and protection to which it is doubtful whether they will ever be able to achieve it in practice. So this HS has developed a common practice of adopting laws that most MPs have never even read, and if we caught reading these provisions, we would realize how complicated they are, how conflicting, how confusing, how vague they are, to understand these provisions, and let alone to get their bearings in those woods of regulations that are often with each other, need specific legal knowledge that most whistlers still do not have. And even when they have it, they still need professional professional legal assistance in order to actually achieve their nominally prescribed rights and interests in the proceedings before the competent authorities. Such assistance costs, and in a situation where several fronts, of equal dispute, of disciplinary, criminal, criminal, and various cases of damage compensation, various temporary measures, mean several procedures from different branches of law, along with the price list of legal services prescribed by the Croatian bar. In such a situation the whistle is whistled because of its decision to act in the public interest and to expose irregularities in an existentially unembarkable situation. The legal costs that may arise could be difficult to track and a single constituency salary, let alone the one she pays with which most of our whistlers survive. Without professional help, without legal help, all their efforts, and often the victim will not lead to results that are of public interest, and the whistler himself will very likely actually end up as an ordinary victim. I am therefore in favour of providing free legal assistance for the settlement of legal costs which will not be linked to the property censorship but to the status of a person who, in the public interest, reveals the corruption of the system. Without it, this law is not worth anything, more or less. By the second reading, we will present to the public a series of amendments which are precisely the means to ensure that this, for the time being, the dead law, breathes real life. Namely, a whistler is not an abstract term. In real life, behind the concept of a whistler is a name and a last name. A person who risks or suffers something, and a legal system that is not ready to provide a person with real rights, not only in principle, is not the rule of law but the rule of corruption. And that Croatia is exactly the state in which the government of corruption is shown by Maja Djerek. For those of you who don't know, I'll explain, on this very day, when the HS discusses this Whistle Act, one weekly published a statement, an interview by a non-anonymous person, is not an abstract well-informed source from a party or institution, but is a person who presented himself by name and last name, describing the position and jobs from which she gained knowledge about which she witnessed in the media. Maja Djerek is an ex-employee of the State Property Company, she was fired because she did not agree to carry out the illegal actions ordered by representatives of the state summit, so that with state property, in particular with state property, she would dispose of in an illegal manner by guessing her party powers. Among those explicitly cited in this statement and interview by Maja Djerek, among other things, the president of HS Gordan Jandroković himself, who, according to the statements already made publicly, has been stricken and pressured through Krunoslav Katičić, then the secretary of state, today the HDZ secretary, to be unlawfully favoured by political and party persons at the expense of the public interest, to the harm of the financial interests of this state, this company, and thus all of us citizens. The other actions described by this particular person, who presented herself to the public with her name and name as Maja Djerek, testify to the very serious accusations of abuse of positions and powers, among other things, the head of the Office of Prime Minister Zvonimir Frke Petesic, but also Minister Marija Banozic, who was also Minister of State Property at the time. If we had a truly independent institution and a fast and effective judiciary, then only then would the protection of whistlers by means of such a law make sense. And if we have such institutions or they are part of this corrupt hostage, they will be tested precisely in procedures that will open or may not open, and also at what speed and in which way all cases will eventually be solved for what one weekly published today. The text discusses how to urinate and write off the debt of several million kunas for the lease of state-owned business spaces. The interview discusses that the restoration of an apartment where a state official was illegally staying was particularly close to the prime minister, carried out in accordance with, or without a legal basis, past the procedure, past the law, at the same time lying about what is happening to Croatian citizens. All that is said in this text, in my opinion, is asked by the competent state authorities, above all by the DORH, and then by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to act at the very least as police officers in Zadar did when reading portals, behold, they learned that there is a serious threat probably also an assassination that will be carried out through rotten eggs and I will compare this situation with the situation that I remember well from 2016 when, due to political responsibility, the entire government fell because of an object that was well interpreted and well positioned as a potential conflict of interest. We have a situation here that is not about one person, it is about the preparation of the entire state government of the most powerful persons in the ministries and in the cabinet of the prime minister himself connected with the Croatian Parliament chairman. So the clan, the corrupt clan, we here do not have a situation of potential conflict of interest, but of a conflict of interest already realised, in which party powers have achieved an illegal, non-existent financial benefit. We have reason here to believe that this is the most difficult possible corrupt crime. I ask the question where is the system now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88397	We move on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88398	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this new law is in fact adopted primarily because of the need to bring national legislation into line with the acquis, with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons who report infringements of Union law. The Directive has entered into force on 16. December 2019, and the deadline for harmonisation was 17. December 2021. So, the deadline was that and I'd like the secretary of state to look at the calendar, the minister isn't here. Now it's January 2022, they're just giving a draft in the first reading. So, the government has again missed the deadline set by the EU, and we have learned that the government is late in everything, late in withdrawing money from the EU after the earthquake, and now we see that even two years have not been enough for this law-making authority to comply, so with the EU acquis in the area of protection of applicants for irregularities. A conscientious minister would take responsibility for such sloppyness against Croatian citizens and EU members, however, Minister Malenica is acting as if he is not concerned with breaking the deadlines in his portfolio, but it is easy to understand why HDZs are constantly breaking deadlines. So, the state administration has been filled with incompetent party personnel, who are also responsible for the non-protection of irregularities by law in line with the EU acquis. We need this better law as soon as possible, because it turns out that we can't count on the DORH anymore. Two months ago, we were convinced that the leading DORH persons were actually protecting irregularities related to Prime Minister Plenkovic, hiding objects in drawers against Plenkovic's favorite Gabi and members of the HDZ presidency and actually covering it up with false statements. And it is quite clear that HDZ has already demonized all institutions and this law would even, it could also support a certain improvement but it will not solve anything because we in practice have the fact that people who report irregularities to the institutions of this country and the ministers themselves of this government are being persecuted. Here's Mr. Sabelak, so he's been retreating in courts for three years. The official court returns him to work, Minister Grlic-Radman re-departs him from the service and he must finance his own defence. And that's where I agree, and we've just discussed it on the Anti-Corruption Council, that legal protection needs to be ensured. State Secretary Salapic says it should be tied to the property censorship as someone who has money should finance his own lawyer and in order to echo it in public that someone who has money to pay the state's attorney. So it's not intent, so here to watch as much money as anyone has, but to encourage people to report irregularities, and not that someone with their money has to persecute, so yours, by your ministers and your government when warning of irregularities yet from their money should be paid, or your money from your pocket should be paid by a lawyer. And we saw what you guys were doing with whistles? We see what you're doing with Sabelak. We'll see what you're doing with Andriana Cvrtilla. You're going to do a systematization to fire her. And here we have this case now, Mrs. Derek, I'm glad that the Anti-Corruption Council has unanimously decided that, on the eve of the final meaning of reading, that is, this second reading of the law invites the applicants of irregularities to present their experiences so that we can make amendments to that bill. And we'll also invite Mrs. Cvrtilo, and we'll invite Mr. Bedekovic from the Veterinary Institute, and here's what if Mrs. Jerek comes to us and she's ready to come to the Anti-Corruption Council and we're ready to invite her, to hear their experiences, so let's see how your protection of the alleged protection of applicants of irregularities in practice in the Republic looks. And the figures here today came out this index of perception of corruption show us what the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia is like. In all the pores of society, therefore corruption has entered, and you have contributed to it, you are aiding it. On one occasion, I told Prime Minister Plenkovic that he, I cannot claim that he is a corrupt man, I have no evidence of that, but he is certainly the target of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, the target of corruption, the sponsor of corruption and the protector of corruption. And that's pretty obvious now. And best when I hear analysts, they say the opposition has referred to the Minister Horvat's impeachment procedure and it will actually protect him. So what's he saying? That the prime minister of this country is led by whoever suggested what and would protect the incompetent people because someone who doesn't like him asks these people to leave tomorrow, whether they're going to look for them and protect those who are corrupt because someone he doesn't like has warned about this corruption. So what is this behavior and what is this modus operandi? Remove the incompetent, remove those who protect corruption and I think with all these laws the only way to deal with corruption is to disarm the DORH, to demonstrate such a DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88399	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88400	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Nikola is interested in me now for the sake of the Croatian public, we have Andriana Cvrtila, so I have to speak for the Croatian public, so the woman reports nepotism, corruption, and then she doesn't get a stick on her head right now, but she gets that perfidious, so it goes into reconstruction within the so-called system. The systematization of how nice that sounds, but actually the leg in the buttocks in a literal sense. How is it possible for us to talk fairy tales on one side and call for the fight against corruption, and then we have chaos on the ground and when flowers will flourish into our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88401	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88402	With this government, with this corrupt majority never, but they feel positive trends. Why? When repression strengthens, it is a sign that those in power are weak. We see that people are being arrested because they wrote that they should prepare rotten eggs when Prime Minister Plenkovic shows up in one city and this is all the consequences of what was happening on Banovina alone because they themselves are aware that they have done nothing and that it would be counterproductive for them, but this kind of repression that is happening, this desire to control everything is only an indication that this alleged all-power is on fragile legs and that it will all collapse very quickly. I'm convinced that the time is approaching and that actually they're already feeling in the air their fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88403	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88404	Do you expect to soon see a law on the protection of the characters and the works of Andrej Plenkovic going on to ensure that in the future no one even remembers to have such announcements or to try something in practice on a similar trail. And my second question concerns the work of your anti-corruption council. You are complained about by many citizens and those within the institutions about the problem of corruption. What are your experiences, as often as they are and are ever satisfied with the way and process of reporting corruption within their institutions or are all forced to address you, someone else because they cannot find satisfaction where they should, within institutions as some kind of internal reporting which should be the normal way of every whistle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88405	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88406	Well, I don't think anyone here believes that people inside or inside their own companies are going to report something when they see how those who reported anything have gone. It will eventually go that way either through the Attorney General's Office or out in public. As for the mistress of white and the protection of characters and works, so Andrej Plenkovic, I expect that such tendencies are possible in terms of this law because they are really ready, ready for anything, and here I will set my own example. I received serious threats to my family, I reported them to the police, no one ever called me from the police, even though I sent them e-mails, told me what it was, what was done about it, the particular person who threatened me, so I would never report that someone personally threatened me, but when he threatened my family. The police didn't do anything, and this is where he gets arrested. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] There's a preemptive arrest here when the pet's white. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88407	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian. Comrade Grmoy, what's wrong with you? So do you know how much you can talk? What's wrong with you? Well, take it easy. Dear Representative Habiban, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88408	Thank you, dear Vice President. You, in your style, of course, and in MOST style, re-shape the real situation and don't actually say what's right and what's key. So, you said that Croatia is late again in the implementation of this directive, but it would be good for the public if you said that in February 2019, Croatia passed this law, and the EU regulated that matter only in October 2019, adopted that directive, it would be good for the Croatian public if you had said so. The other thing, and you were in the Croatian government, you had the opportunity to change something, you had the opportunity to pass this law, but you were obviously dealing with other things, you were doing grizzlies, you were doing employment in Metkovic, in the supervisory boards, you were naming Croatian water. And I'm going to quote you at the end of what you just said here in the Croatian Parliament, we didn't do this right. That applies to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88409	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88410	So, I don't know, he had an injury to his colleague Miletic's office, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88411	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my colleague Miletic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88412	Dear Members, Article 238, insulting MPs, I will not speak now as my HDZ colleague generalises about it at all, but indeed here the difamist is going under the belt, perhaps here is his courage in the language rather than in concrete acts to fight corruption and within his ranks, but it is unacceptable that MPs are being offended under the clear blows and I ask you to warn your colleague as chairman that he is still learning a little more cultural behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88413	As chairman, I warn you because this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if I had responded to what some MPs have said, including my colleague Grmoy, it would really be insulting others, but I am not, because I do not allow it, I think that we can go to Parliament and sometimes even some border that is the limit of taste for me, but maybe it's not for someone else. Therefore, you are being warned, and now will be answered by a respected representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88414	So, fellow Habian precisely because we had a great desire to change everything, and too little mandate to do it we went the way we did, and I'm glad that we did because people saw who had principles, who because of insisting on transparency and the fight against corruption is willing to lose everything, and that's why people now more and more recognize it and that's what you're afraid of, I see it. I'm often with you on shows and I see this fear, and that fear is so great, it's so much that the HDZ on its official pages announces that I've hired half of my family in the City Administration of Metkovic, and no one else in any way related to me is related not only to the city administration but to any city company or city institution. So, you go so far as to no longer know what you'd write, then I deny you and then you won't hear for a few days. to new posts on your facebook page. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88415	She will now speak to a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88416	In short, since the law on the protection of characters and works of Andrej Plenkovic should be waited for due to appropriate procedure, perhaps we should first do an executive act that would refer to the premeditation of walking with rotten eggs that would be declared an act of first-class terrorism because we know today that our prime minister is most threatened with terrorism, so we would prevent citizens from walking with broken foods in the future. As for these legal changes, I will again be very specific. I'm not going to deal with HDZ anymore even though it was signifying to listen to a fellow Hungarian who talked about 30 years which are little to seem to be able to deal with corruption, instead of starting from the fact that corruption shouldn't have happened, so it's a year too much to have a problem with corruption. And the relativization of Transparency International's report said, according to my colleague Mazhar, that this is a global problem and that there are other countries that have not moved in the index, and then we don't need to take it personally, as if there was nothing to do with the executive authority that is responsible for our place. But it's all within the expected discourse. As for these more concrete legal changes, some things remain unclear and I'm afraid they can lead to serious problems in the future. Namely, when we talk about what will be and how the acts of the employer will be used in art. 23. Again, we are giving the Ombudsman an extremely great opportunity to react or not to react. So he can first decide which applications he will give priority to, then he can decide that the declared advantage is insignificant and may also decide that these proceedings are completed. The key question is, what are the criteria that are not re-scheduled within this law that the Ombudsman will do the same? So these are extremely large powers that are now coming into the hands of the attorney general as an external notifier, and we don't know how he's going to carry it all out in action, we've heard that they're concerned about themselves because they don't think they're capacitated enough. The other thing that concerns me even more is the article. 24. procedure for internal reporting irregularities. In fact, the attorney general may also be so as to solve the problem within his yard he suggested that he focus on the internal notifier of irregularities, that we live in utopia we might indeed have a system in which internal reporting of irregularities would work, but this is the Republic of Croatia. And what's going on here now? If we do not strengthen the external login system and extend it beyond the Ombudsman's regiment, instead of shutting it down or focusing primarily on this internal application that almost doesn't work in the Republic of Croatia, we can have a situation like this in art. 24. in which it is said in Article 4, be careful now to forward this ‘application of irregularities to authorities authorised to act on the content of the application, if the irregularity is not resolved with the employer’. What does that mean? So you have a person of trust whose appointment the employer is involved in, and if she doesn't solve the problem with the employer after reporting irregularities, then she's just moving on to some institutions. And now imagine, I don't know, let's say that you have a case of Mrs. Cvrtila or any case relating to political employment through a relationship and someone reports it and it comes to a person who is a trusted person who has been appointed to that function and she first goes to solve it with the employer and the employer will say it, and thank you for the warning I am truly guilty. Well, of course not, so the employer will say that's incorrect, that's the truth about me that's all lunches. Is it then settled with the employer and we are not going further towards the treatment of some other institutions? What is this item and whether it actually means in practice that the employer will be the one who will first wonder and who will decide whether the irregularity is reported at all an irregularity. If we ask the employer that he thought it was an irregularity he probably wouldn't do it then we can imagine if these items stay inside This law will be the future of future whistles and their notifiers. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88417	We have several replicas, the first respected MP of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88418	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, Marija Selak Rasdic, I would like two things from you, therefore for the sake of the Croatian public. First, a comment on how it is possible with all due respect, with all due respect to the states of Rwanda and Jordan, how is it possible that one Rwanda and one Jordan have less corruption than the Republic of Croatia? So that, and secondly, not only are we critics of what you're proposing so that we can get caught up in the right way with corruption and how can we finally shut it down once and for all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88419	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, Marija Selak Rasdic, I would like two things from you, therefore for the sake of the Croatian public. First, a comment on how it is possible with all due respect, with all due respect to the states of Rwanda and Jordan, how is it possible that one Rwanda and one Jordan have less corruption than the Republic of Croatia? So that, and secondly, not only are we critics of what you're proposing so that we can get caught up in the right way with corruption and how can we finally shut it down once and for all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88420	The vision of democracy is far worse than the non-democratic regimes. You can try to overthrow non-democratic regimes, you have an argument of justification against them, and the vision of democracy allows you to persist the status quo as in Croatia in the illusion that you have institutions that are functional, which in practice support corruption. And so Croatia, which has no democracy but the illusion of democracy can be on a scale higher by the degree of perception of corruption than any non-democracy country wherever it is, and of course we know how it happens and what needs to be interrupted and we need new elections and we need new power to solve corruption, it is simple and it is the only recipe. What remains is those employment that are growing in public institutions as the HDZ voter base expands and elections become more and more difficult... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88421	Thank you. Honorable Agent Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88422	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Selak, I don't doubt your nobleness, but here you are in one party that had in its time the largest forum of justice ministers, police, all the power in one country. Do you think that today, you and your husband are going to bring one newspaper of honesty, reality, something that needs a state versus your colleagues who were deep into a forum of unrealisticity then with a platform that promised something that ended in three seconds at a time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88423	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88424	I thank you for asking. My colleagues from the club were part of the government with HDZ, and they came out of the same government because they were not obedient handlifters on the issue of irregularities and it was one of the few very concrete and unequivocal moments in the Croatian public when we saw that democracy did not exist and that the vote was merely an illusion of mass opium. So they voted, which was their democratic right against Minister Maric, and the consequence of having an opinion was leaving the same government. In that sense, I see no problem in working with such people because they showed their principle not when they were fighting for chairs but when they came to them and why they lost them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88425	The Honorable representative Deur has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way is he injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88426	Art. In 238, a respected management attorney did not say what she often respects not to answer her question. I have no doubt today of your commitment to that party, and in the end you came to the assembly. I asked what was going on, they didn't leave alone, then the secretary decided in three seconds that they were no longer there and in the name of that today that platform on your wings is in the position in which it is, but that corruption and between the Bridge was then, do you think that everything is realistic, whatever you inherited?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88427	Dear Representative Deur, it was a replica, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is a little unusual from the pay phone, has raised and respected representative Selak Rasdic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88428	Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies by insinuating that I did not answer the question, I answered the question very well. In fact, the question was completely missed because HDZ was alone that the Bridge was not insubordination would never have kicked him out of the government, which confirms that they obviously had no problem dealing with the Bridge or with corruption, or with anything else ever existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88429	Of course, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Let's just stop doing this a little bit, and let's go to the next replica of the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88430	Thank you. Here's colleague Deur obviously has an misunderstanding of what corruption is and what it is, which is actually reporting and warning corruption. So he thinks that it's actually corruption for those who are getting up against corruption, for example. as our ministers at the time who warned that it was not good for Minister Maric to go to secret meetings with Ivica Todorovic, that he was in conflict of interest and it only shows that this whole debate is a law that will protect the applicants of irregularities one farce because their modus operands is actually to punish those who report irregularities and who are rebelling against irregularities. We have the Sabelak case, the Blottilla case, so here we are now as the Bridges, so here's actually colleague Deur has shown in the best way that what we're doing here is just respecting European directives, and that HDZ is actually going to continue as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88431	My colleague, Grumo, but you don't replicate your colleague Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88432	No, I'm asking for a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88433	And you didn't say that, you've been replicating it all along. You've been replicating your colleague Deura all along, so we're not gonna get that far, so there's no point in this whole story. I don't know. Dear representative Selak Rasdic, you've been told nothing, but of course you can say anything. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88434	It is not only a problem of corruption when we talk about HDZ, which is often said. There's something that goes hand in hand with corruption, and that's incompetence. We've seen it best now on the example of restoration because what's going on? People who are capacitated, who are able to behave in a quality manner of any function, are in a position where they are able to bring themselves into a position and make a more quality state, but those who are incompetent cannot contribute to their ability to earn something in their business, whether for themselves or at the state level, apply corruption because it is the only way to survive and often respect only corruption to HDZ. I would extend it to what is their basic problem, which is incompetence, and that's why we're where we are. And the result of incompetence is this 20-year corruption that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88435	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Barbara Antolic Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88436	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on whistles, must bear within it the basic therefore encouraging environment in which it will not be possible for citizens to be afraid to report irregularities. And in order to improve the law itself, it is necessary to make some changes in several articles. It is welcome that the ministry, i.e. the minister, has already accepted some of the provisions that it has included in the future changes. I would suggest further that you be in art. 4 which prescribes areas of reporting irregularities, that there is also a need to add a case of discrimination and the threat of human rights as important areas that must be detected if they occur, especially in public administration bodies. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 11 should be added that in a variety of rights to protect applicants should be particularly regulated and the safety protection of applicants, therefore it has been accepted on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, we have talked about the right and need to provide psychosocial support, which the minister accepted, however, we have not included that important protection of life so far and I think that there should be, in particular, some important and large cases of detection and disclosure and protection of state and public money, and the benefits, public benefits, reached for that maximum protection, and this is the protection of life and safety of applicants. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 21 It is necessary to specify the meaning of the concept of an internal channel of reporting irregularities which is mandatory for employers who employ less than 50 workers. The provisions of the law do not stipulate procedures for the implementation of the internal reporting channel. Art. 22 minimum accessibility standards should be specified, i.e. more clearly what is considered to be an appropriate way of making all information available for the submission of applications and how they are published in order to make them available to all. Regarding this article, it is particularly important to note that it is also necessary to implement systematic education in order for the public and young to be sensitive to any irregularity, any public money and fate to be reported. Then you'd mention an article. 42, which provides for the Ministry of Justice's obligation to provide the Commission with available statistics each year, so how much money has been saved, how many applications have been filed with the Ombudsman's office, also provides confidential persons who would also collect those data. I think it is necessary to bring together the data and the public defenders and trusted persons in order to make the data more relevant and to get the really real information that we actually save by accessing the rights of whistlers in the right way and to value them in accordance with how they contribute to the protection against corruption, i.e. saving our public money and protecting the reputation of the Republic to themselves, but also to others. So, so far, whistler practice really cannot show us some successes in protecting them. We know that throughout their lives they have suffered the consequences of their honorable work, that as a society, except according to newspaper inscriptions, they have not been particularly rewarding, they have not had an adequate life story that could prove, for future generations, that it is worth showing, that it is worth talking about irregularities, that it is worth protecting public good, public interest and thus benefiting the entire generations in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88437	The Republic has a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88438	Dear colleagues, I've had a lot of trouble and you've talked about it, this institute of confidential persons. Here it is defined as a natural person employed by an employer or a third natural person, the question is what is the third person appointed by the employer in order to report irregularities, communications, etc. Now these smaller companies we talked about, and possibly bigger, are hardly able to choose a trusted person who is not only appointed, but is also appointed by that same employer. We have a similar problem, let's say, with reporting sexual harassment. People don't even know which institute they can report it to and what their legal options are to protect themselves at all. How to ensure that a trusted person truly is what the name says. And do you think this law with such a focus on this internal application leaves a clear possibility for this person to live in practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88439	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88440	In no way can this confidential person be denied the right to be part of the statistics submitted to the Ministry of Justice, or further to the European Commission. So even that right is denied by the present bill. So, I think the whole solution is possible only by setting up a body, an institution that would comprehensively protect whistle rights, such as the BOOK or the Committee for the Protection of Conflicts of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88441	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88442	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm going to give you an example of health irregularities. We can agree that safety is the protection of patients' health, good organization is very important. So then you have a applicant of irregularities that indicates possible professional failures, problems in the organization, you have a confidential person who is of course appointed by the director and is part of the administration. You have a responsible person who is exactly that director and then nothing happens inside the institution, the Ethics Commission, the Internal Affairs Committee, all of which is appointed by the Director, and then this professional person addresses the professional societies, the Health Ministry's inspection. The inspection says there is an irregularity and you have to remove them, nothing happens because the principal is protected by the Administrative Council, the mayor, the minister, if KBC is concerned, etc. Do you think this bill will, however, allow such a settlement of irregularities to be accelerated and the applicants are not afraid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88443	Thank you. Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88444	Thank you very much. Here is another area that I have stated is that it is necessary to extend the law itself, which is the area of reporting irregularities in cases of discrimination and human rights endangerment. So it's an area that regulates both the areas and the ways this Serbian doctor speaks to us was not good to us. So it's a health discrimination that has certainly not been regulated in this bill at all. So this area of human rights and discrimination of the same is completely left out in this present proposal and therefore something in the area of gender rights, in the area of the rights of national minorities, the rights of sexual orientations of different sexual orientations, so this is not regulated at all by this area and I believe that not only is health but also... administrative organisations need to regulate this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88445	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead. Don't leave, the Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has yet another replica for you. Don't run away! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88446	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. So, reading this law and this debate that is to me actually seems to be happening to us again the same thing. So we have a law from 2019. It's the beginning of 2022. We'll have in first reading, relatively fast it'll be in second reading, and somehow I feel like I'm going to put that clutch on. We should have brought it in, brought it in line with the directive. We've done it, we've satisfied the form, but we're very far from content. Recent examples that we have seen in the last two, three months of the Kutina example actually shows what, unfortunately we are not quite the exception and in relation to some other countries, that the one who has decided and who has said that, I am sick of it, I will report an irregularity, for that I will publicly say in fact it is the one who suffers the consequences, the one who has the Stigma on himself, the one who is not protected. He's the one who's out of a job. And until we change that, there's nothing to it. We can change the laws as many times as we want. But that's the essential answer. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88447	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88448	All these names, therefore, all these examples behind these examples are people and they will not receive adequate protection under this proposed law. The fact is that in some small part, it will be possible for those who will have legal assistance available to be found in these woods of legal provisions, in the woods of all things. So it's impossible for the lady in the Kutina and with this existing law if it's passed to reach some level and attaining those rights that she's actually lost. It won't even be possible to pass a law like this. I therefore believe that it is necessary to go beyond that and go to the establishment of a central body that would better and more systematically protect whistle rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88449	Next individual debate, respected representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88450	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a lot has already been said how vaguely this law has actually been, transposed, and as far as the EU directives are very accurate and insistent and former and current occupiers of the occupancy to pass better and better law and civil society. I think this is going to be some kind of but just a little step away from those same actors, especially civilian associations and the attorney general in a few favors, and hopefully whistles and whistles. Here are a few concrete remarks. The minister, he's not here right now, he said he wouldn't get into it, but first I really want to say that about art. 4. we believe it is unacceptable that the law does not generally apply to the issue of defence and national security because this general approach is completely up-to-date with this law, the MORH, the MUP, the SOA, and some other institutions in the national security system. Is it also the President's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Obviously. Corruption in the national security system is either related to arms orders, whether related to transactions in the energy sector, or to the misuse of funds for secret secret secret service associates must not be hidden behind the notion of national security. It is announced that this area will be passed by special acts, but we are concerned that at this stage we do not know which acts, how they regulate whistles in the security sector. Here is just an example in Article 2(2) of this article, and as this is all too far-fetched, it says, "The bodies in which national security and defence affairs are part will be brought in a special act that will regulate the protection of applicants of irregularities", and now be aware of this "the process of reporting irregularities in the areas of key security and defence interests and taking into account the protection of key security and defence interests". Now, this feedback loop that absolutely loops and doesn't say anything, and it's actually abliable as we've had the opportunity to see it, and it's the same principle that the Osijek Court has ruled that these officers are only suspended and that you're careful why they're being punished, because they were wearing no markings because he's trying as a court of law to have police marks. And it's clear to all of us that the only reason is because they don't give up their employers and that they're allowed to live up to it in the future, but they can't give up their employers, because in this whistle bill, too, it's called, it's all hidden under the notion of national security. Nothing, of course nothing done. Now of course we still have how much time I'll have. I think it's very important that this relationship, that it's talked about having a confidential person choose it, was also mentioned in the truth by sexual abuse, as well as generally mobing in the workplace. The person of trust to whom people will address needs the same thing as for whistles to be really chosen and yes, the employer should sort of change it, but it is very important that between a trusted person and between a whistle whistle, the whistler is really good, a strong sense of trust so that the whistler does not feel played or left by the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88451	Two replicas, the first respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88452	Your Honor. She would ask you how do you think we could protect a possible police whistler who would detect or expose the commander's arrest for unfortunate facebook comments? Hypothetically speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88453	Yes, of course, that's an assumption and I thank Mrs. Antolic Vupra for this question. I'm sure it's important in that, first of all, if it were to be applied and used in the MUP, it really should be there, not that, as I said, ablimates the entire MUP from it. So if there's a person out there of trust that people have chosen and they can really rely on, and I can imagine that he can certainly do it even though I find it hard to believe that in this case it could only remain within the system. I understand that it is required that these things are normally within the system, but it will certainly have to be done through both the media and the EU institutions, because that is the only way to strengthen the brave individual who is already whistled about the actions within the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88454	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88455	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague, you've also opened up a topic in your individual discussion which, in the context of this law, has earned special attention. So, we're going to make changes and supplement the law, we're going to have the law, we're going to be able to say something we have. But what do we have in essence? Not long ago, she was a police officer who reported sexual abuse of her superior in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And what was the result? How'd it go? So, the result is that we all in the paper had a chance to read it and that it's a message to everyone else, forget if it happens to you, cover your ears and shut up because you're gonna end up just like her. And that should be the role of the law, and that should be the role of those of us who are discussing it in this assembly to actually be encouraged, not prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88456	Thank you, colleagues, Mr. Dark-Taritash, yes, you're absolutely right. It is a case that has been a lot of the media and that speaks very regrettablely about our still masculine position and it is enough to know and know that people who deal with martial arts as much as women can be extremely skilled even physically and in what way men can misjudge it, how brave, responsible, rational and situations of danger and that these are all prejudices that only men can do it. But when they allow themselves, we all do because behind our impulses we hide things in nature, and then the system of women in no way protects us. Yeah, this law doesn't help that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88457	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88458	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I want to say about the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities in first reading, because we just found out again that HDZ did it badly and certainly not even though we did it first in 2019. And until then there were some governments and whistles and those who reported irregularities, but there were no laws by which these people could do the job. Then when the law was made, then that law was no longer good because it was not proposed by those who were the most fierce critics. And when they were ministers, those same critics didn't have the need to do it, so that we could find out something in the opposition, so we could report someone we knew was doing something we shouldn't because there was no law. But you could have been a whistler, too. And, of course, everyone went through it in their own way. We support this and ask it to be more detailed than it was in 2019. And that certain rules are respected, so when we talk about channels we have that narrowest channel within the system, so a little bit wider if someone doesn't listen and we go to the institutions, and then if we don't go to the first or the second, then we go to the media. Is that exactly how in Croatia I don't know if it works, or if it's the first channel here is actually the third channel, so we're going back with the results to the first one. Maybe that's a problem, too, but let it happen. Why do I say that? Because we have whistles that no one hears, hears them, and when they come out, they don't hear them. Why can't they hear them? Because they come from other options like SDP, so maybe SD, I don't know. We have one case from the former head of a municipality in Koprivnica and Križevci County who, after the shift and the replacement of his director, made one case and said this: "The day before the decision to call the director of the municipal company decided to alienate the company's official vehicle. He sold it to himself without judgment and without any procedures." And the story goes on, it wasn't just the director did, he sold the iron of that municipal society to the company chief and of course it doesn't interest anyone. Right in a kilo written and at what price. And what happens in the end? That the appointed director, I will simply read to him his statement, says, "Get the devil to the tail to pull better shut up." That's what we're talking about, gentlemen. Why isn't the media interested in this case? Because he's from a party that's in opposition and that's where everything's allowed. Pure crimes possible. Possibly, some institutions say whether or not they are. But not a word. And then I'm listening to my fellow bush here. I was a participant in that authority in 2016. In years, those miraculous powers when we had to fight his let's say the way he was doing the staffing, so he's not here today, he obviously knew I was going to say it. In Croatian waters, the Statute, the Statute of the basic document of the Croatian Waters, of society, is changed in order to agree on the professional preparation of a man who happened to be best man of the then president of the Most and present-day president of the Most, and thus comes to what? Until the end of the pressure of officials who are from the very other part and the obligation to give a certain opinion on one project concerning the Waste Management Centre were pressured precisely by that man who had never been appointed because he gave up when they had set it up, and the minister annulled all the solutions that had been written by then. And then today we're listening to a lecture on who's capable, who knows, who doesn't know and who's honest. And of course there's no answer. Why? Because at that moment, a colleague of the Grmoys said that wonderful sentence. The post of deputy administration, deputy president of the Croatian Waters Administration, is a political place. No matter the competition, you come and go with us. That's the story, that's the honesty we're talking about. In the end, I say the man gave up himself and thanked Mr. Grumo for pushing him into that place even though he knew he didn't have one of the basic conditions. And we're dealing not only with this, but also with many other cases that marked the time when this team that's teaching us today did their job the way they did it. That's what we're going to talk about, because there are many and many of these situations, so that those who are teaching us look as good as their colleague Grumoja thinks they are. It wasn't your teammate, and you can't explain your line when you say it was a political place, and it's where you come and go with our team. It's not like that, and you didn't understand, and you didn't know what you were doing at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88459	Time. Replica esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac. And it wasn't written to me. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Don't get excited. I wasn't written there. Was there an injury before? Yeah? Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88460	Article 238 has been injured. So, my colleague Boris doesn't talk about the law at all, he's talking about some alleged affairs, and I thank him this way because he's talking about Bridge affairs about something that didn't happen. So it's about the appointment of someone who's never been appointed, so I'd be happy if it were your affairs, that what you're telling me is that these HDZ affairs Croatia would be a rich country, a rich country Croatia would be. People from Croatia wouldn't go to counterpart Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88461	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88462	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, you have well concluded here, there are irregularities, and those who make them have a name and a last name and it is sad that here the most fierce critics try to label only the ruling party because we are witnessing that irregularities appear regardless of which option belongs to the political one. We, as a political option, have shown that we are willing to deal with everyone, including corruption, and as you have rightly concluded, we have passed this law in 2019. and here today we are bringing forward a proposal that would try to make even better protection for the applicants of irregularities. So I think it's not always a problem just in the normative context, the problem is also in the social consciousness, and it's certain that we won't fix the situation just by politically labeling Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]] Please let me... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88463	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88464	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. Here's how they're experiencing it. Here's a colleague of our Grmoya's how he experienced this own role in 2016, he says no appointment happened. There was a appointment, but a man gave up pressure on the media and the public because he realized that they had done something they shouldn't have done, that they were changing the basic act of society to put one of their closest to that society in the leading positions. But what's going on? When they did, that man quits, but he doesn't do again what they gave him to do, but on the side like some people here say they model or modulate some of the relationships that were happening at the time on a completely different project, and that's where whistlers come in. Two officers asking for a working council to stand by their side and not to let what Mr. Bolt asked happen. That's why I had to say it because it was about the whistles in the system who stood up against signing something that was imposed on them by someone who wasn't even a member of that administration, but who forced them to do what they had to do and that's why Mr. Bolmoy's man thanked him many times in public. We have it written down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88465	Replica, the next replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88466	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Boric, we have passed the Consumer Protection Act in 2019, and the directive was adopted in 2019, so the Union members have also detected that the protection has been fragmented by both Member States and uneven. So the consequence of the implementation of Union law with a cross-border dimension, which is reported by whistles, is shown to be insufficient protection. So the EU members also noticed that it is not enough to protect whistles or our applicants. We're now in the grip, we're passing this law, so we're responsible and we're treating everyone so that not only would the lawyer have the right to apply to her, but we have a company of more than 50 employees must also have an internal procedure for... the whistler's applications. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88467	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88468	Thank you very much, colleague. So here, why is this important? So that's why I'm saying what we've finally done even more in detail after we've adopted the strategy to change the law and the Law on Conflict of Interest and on this Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity to even more detail what's important is that we don't have what we have going on in public space because we have a situation right now, let's say, we have a case from the Kutina that everyone is talking about and we have a situation in Holding where 745 cancellations go. One job, 745 quits. No one here pointed to irregularities, no one in Holding says there was anything wrong. Let us look at this relationship and of course everyone agrees with how I listen means those who represent that opinion and the SDP who supports so many cancellations, etc., relocation etc. And no one wants to go out there and say there's something wrong with that system again. Why? Well, obviously, because they're all used to having to be like that, and everybody's defending that it's normal to get 740 cancellations in one municipal society owned by the City of Zagreb. We're against it and I've said what we think of as a policy of such behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88469	Time. The next replica, respected, time, respected representative of Nikola Grmoi, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88470	I'd like to ask you, Mr. Boric, what do you say to the institution's attitude towards whistles, according to Mrs. According to Mr Sabelak, according to the fact that people who have reported irregularities are being persecuted, and what is your political position, or do you have as a person, as a politician, that people are being arrested for saying that they need to prepare rotten eggs for the prime minister, do you have a view of what, should people in Croatia be arrested for that, can you express your political stance on whistles and on the arrest of people, therefore who are self-critical of the prime minister and this authority? Here, I'd like to ask your comment, it would mean a lot to me to say your point of view, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88471	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88472	Thank you very much, Vice President. I've been here a long time to remember a lot of things that bother many. I remember the arrests even after Knin and the whistle in Knin, I remember the arrests and some bloggers who were not willing by some former presidents of the Republic of Croatia and then in the assembly since the SDP acted as a government there were no such stories. Why? Because it's allowed, it's possible, it should be done then, and even this gentleman who now after the protest is also arrested and I don't know what's happening right now because apparently some of them said they knew and could control the whole system, that they knew exactly at every moment what was going on, that you didn't hear it and what was going on with us, so if people think the police shouldn't do their job then let them say we shouldn't do our job. Is that enough to initiate some procedure, let the institutions be aware of that which is important to my opinion. I know I'm very careful about what it says. on social networks and that there must be social responsibility behind it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88473	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88474	Article 238 has been injured. But it's a good thing this happened, the MP refuses to answer the question and deceives the public. But it is good that this happened, in fact, he admitted that this is Prime Minister Plenkovic's order to arrest a man, because HDZ does not want to take a political stance either. I don't go into police action, but you as politicians can say it's wrong to arrest people in a free and democratic Croatian state because they write that someone should be welcomed with rotten eggs. You're in no condition to do this. And this shows that you're on your way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] in one severe repression [[Santer Invader: Time.]] against Croatian citizens [[/Invader Sanader: Time. Time.]] that you want to curb actually every criticism of this corrupt... [[/Invader Sanader: Time. You have another warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88475	You have a third warning. You are losing your right to debate this point until the end of the debate. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Boris. And I apologize, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88476	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because he insults MPs here on a personal level. He also slandered by accusing that some direct warrants were issued. Mr. Grmoya, these are serious accusations and I wonder if you'd take them outside of this assembly when you're so brave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88477	A reminder to you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88478	Bea, I'm gonna take them downstairs. This is a shame you're doing, so you can't take a political stand about whether people should be arrested for these benign Facebook posts [[Mr. Grmoya, please! Mr. Grmoya.]] [[/Intruder: Lose the right to debate until the end of this session today. I give you a fifth warning, you lose your right to debate tomorrow.]] [[Intruder Boric: Here you have no more right!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88479	You have the same warning. Rade Simičević, a respected representative of the violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88480	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Mr. Grumoja, speaking falsely offends the MPs of the assembly. It seems since he came from Metkovic Valley here to Zagreb that he put on the devil's suit and that he thinks that everything he says is true and that everything he knows only he knows, and that we don't really know anything and that we are here in the House, I don't know which way, and he came by God's blessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88481	Okay. You have a warning, too. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Josip Boric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88482	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter My colleague Grmoy is beinglittled as a representative and his colleague, as well as all my colleagues here on the other hand, because he says we haven't expressed our position. We express our political position in the way we feel that we should take it out. Whether it suits him or not is his problem. I still remember his promise and we're waiting for this package of some of his what he called anti-pedophilic laws, to see what he wrote when he had already gone through one of the social network calvary and all of those entries that didn't suit him then at the end of 7 months or at the beginning of 7 months last year. It speaks of people like him. He promised something, so he didn't do what he promised. And now it's being called i.e. He's making it up. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] that we're giving someone a warrant. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's not true!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88483	You have a warning, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Nikola Mazhar, the esteemed representative of the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88484	Thank you very much, Vice President. We who remain in the assembly and continue to discuss the metrics, i.e. the law in question, as opposed to those who come, perform minutes of media fame and departure can see, so with a number of innovations of this law that has contributed not only to increase the scope of the applicants and to improve the protection of applicants, something we have not heard so far is also about transparency. So, we see that this promotion of the process itself opens up transparency, so where the whole process has to be monitored, but it must finally be given a report on what has been done. And you also know with prism units of local self-government, so here it is now being brought and that the units of local and regional self-government will have their own internal channels that will enable them, so that the applicants can take advantage of this opportunity and thus raise transparency not only at the state level but also bring it down to the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88485	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88486	Thank you very much. Here I agree entirely with what you said and I think this is a good suggestion in the first reading. If someone thinks that there is something more to be added to make more detail about what may have remained unclear, let them make it clear today in the debate in the second reading through the amendments if it is not appreciated. We think this is also a step forward in relation to people who are brave and came out to say something. And now if we also have a provision that moves that attempt at revenge that is often spoken of in particular on one example today, that is something. We just have the right to ask and what happened until 2019? What happened by 2015? Why didn't those who are the loudest today have the courage to make such a law. Did they have too many failures that could have become a bad thing for them at the time, so they ran away from it or were smarter in opposition today than they were in power in terms of their ability to get more out of the opposition today than they could in power. These are our doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88487	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You misapplyed the provisions of Article 240 in the case of Mr. Grumoja. You took away his word until the end of the debate, which is fine, but you cannot take away his word until the end of the day, nor until the end of tomorrow. I suppose that's because Mr. Bukarica wasn't there to warn you. So, I think it was, you could tell him a distance from the session by the end of the day, and if he wouldn't listen to you and he wouldn't leave the session for two days. But you can't take away his word for two days, so I suggest it is corrected in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88489	Okay. We'll make it right. You're right. He's been away from the session for two days. Yeah. The next individual debate was a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88490	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, I will comment on a few provisions just as an introduction to the amendments that we will submit to the second reading, to further explain why they are. Namely, art. 28 speaks of the conditions and conditions under which the applicant of irregularities may directly address the media on his or her knowledge, and it is said that if he first filed a report with either internal or external channels or if there is a reasonable reason to believe that an irregularity may pose a direct or obvious danger to the public interest, such as in the event of a crisis or the risk of irreparable damage, or if there is a risk of revenge, or if the possibility of an irregularity is effectively removed relatively small due to the specific circumstances of the case. These definitions represent certain legal standards that have yet to be created and confirmed through court practice. That kind of court practice is still missing right now, and that actually proves that we're talking about the law a little bit by heart right now. These legal standards also show the extent to which the applicants of irregularities will need lawyers as professional and professional assistance in order to help them meet the rules conflicting with each other in the forest. For example, these specific provisions to which I have called will not apply in those cases where persons directly disclose information to the media on the basis of specific provisions of domestic law establishing a system of protection regarding freedom of expression and information. Therefore, it will be necessary to have a prominent lawyer to state what rights are prescribed under the right to speak of freedoms of expression and information and how they are brought into line with the rights described in this Act. Thus, without the whistles being provided with financial assistance that they can count on independently of their initial material status, this Law will remain a dead letter on paper. Since the first law that we are changing today is only three years in force, there is no way that the Supreme Court will play its part, but in the years to come it will be extremely important. It will be extremely important for all other courts to set the limits of interpretation of these rules because it is precisely how these legal standards will be interpreted in practice that ultimately depends on how each individual case will end any reported irregularities, and hence the life fate of a single whistler. Furthermore, I will repeat what I have already said, that the only legal right to protect whistles is effective justice and independent institutions, and their rapid reaction and swift treatment in all situations when something falls within their work and jurisdiction, so I will look back on the article. 25, which defines that, excuse me, 26, is that the competent authority for external reporting is the attorney general. Therefore, it is not in itself bad to codify in one place a system of rules that provides whistles with better protection than for example, cancellation, chicanisation or revenge, but would not want the institutes and mechanisms of this Law to give us the wrong conclusion or the wrong track. The Office of the Public Prosecutor is not a body that solves the essence of which a single application applies but only channels that application to other state bodies that will then be implemented by each of their segments by what the law indicates and that is where the problem arises if we restrict the applicant of irregularities that they must first address either internal mechanisms or the Ombudsman, it would be good to add that they can contact other competent authorities directly. And then we'll be collapsing a whole series of laws because, for example, now under the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, more anonymous applications cannot be considered the way they were taken before. Without removing such conflicts, without strengthening this external reporting institution, this internal reporting is actually, just going to become additional pressure for employers, whether it's real or private sector, because our experience, our mentality is not such that as it applies in external Europe, applicants will feel more comfortable reporting something to one of their colleagues who may in a privileged relationship precisely with persons [[Intruder: Time.]] which apply. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88491	Replica is a respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88492	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you've been listening to the example from the health care that I cited to my colleague in the replica, when a person was reported to be a person, actually a director, a person to whom irregularities are reported is part of the administration, so the legal service person and when actually those irregularities are not being eliminated. Now, I'm looking at the employer's obligations here, man. 22, where according to the current law, it seems to me, however, that the employer's obligations in the matter of the appointment of a trusted person, where, in the event that a union commissioner or 20% of the working council is required to change the person who is applying and gives the employer a duty to do so within 30 days. Do you think a proposal like this will be sufficient to guarantee the impartiality of a trusted person whom you will, will not, can have a negative impact, still work with her, do you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88493	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88494	Here, I'll be quite open without a delay loud and clear, that I don't believe in the Institute of Trusted Persons. The fact is, in fact, the Directive is the most reliant on this, the fact that special attention has been given in this Law too, is the fact that the attorney general suggests that this internal application institute has some advantage. It's in theory maybe well imagined. Perhaps in some other legal systems it works well, in the Republic of Croatia it simply does not hold water. It may be within the law, but the effectiveness of this institute doesn't require much. The only effective check of irregularities and the determination of whether an inappropriate action has actually taken place is external control, independent supervision through the competent institution for a specific issue and the area in question. This is one pressure and one unnecessary administrative obligation that will essentially not be a lot of results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88495	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88496	Dear colleagues. I'd like to ask you a simple question in principle. In fact, we are witnessing in this assembly that the ruling majority is turning away from the apparent irregularities. The opposition is to take this example, to report irregularities in the selection and appointment of the director of HRT where, under the terms of the invitation to tender, the gentleman was in an apparent conflict of interest, which was just prohibited by the tender parameters. Nevertheless, as we know, the ruling majority appointed him and turned his head against irregularities. So what can we expect from this law if there are recorded irregularities in this assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88497	Thank you for asking. Like I said, don't let the law get you to the wrong conclusion and the wrong track. Neither the attorney general nor this law will solve the problem, the only solution is in independent institutions that will do their job properly. We don't really have such institutions, we had something, something started to develop, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has actually disabled the few positive steps forward that have been achieved directly before and a few years after EU accession. You have set an example of the principal, but today we have a place to go and where more serious situations of serious corruption, for which in some way the accused is a complete state summit. And I don't really care if the ruling man turns his head, I'm interested in whether the state bodies like UskoK, DORH and the Commission are going to pretend that they haven't seen or heard anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88498	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Oreshkovic. Every government has some ideas, and it's doing some sort of step-by-step. What's been a feature lately seems to me to be this, let's take the Law on Reconstruction that you and I voted against, and then in order to apply, there were special teams that served so that people could file a request. So the law is complex in a way that a normal man who normally works is not able to apply for renewal at all, and no one was weird, it was normal and proved to be a big thing where we have special teams. Now it can be agreed to this law, in order for anyone to decide at all being a notifier to need strength, need energy, need will, but in order for him to even be a notifier he would have to consult and know about a lot of other laws, he would have to have enough money for one lawyer, so a string, a series of preconditions. We seem to agree on laws that encourage it, don't do it why we do the laws, but I don't know. Let go of the water all together. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88500	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88501	You're absolutely right. That's why I've been saying what the whistlers are saying all day. Here you are in a situation where you're reporting something, and let's imagine that this lady from State Real estate didn't get fired, but that she's currently in her workplace, revealing something that's hardly accusing the minister, the head of the government's office, the president of HS can expect her to be fired. If she is being fired, if she is threatened with discrimination at work, she is expected to find herself in several different procedures at some point plus a witness in criminal proceedings, plus a witness in some disciplinary proceedings, or perhaps in some other property without legal help, and that of professionally specialised people specifically from lawyers, such a person as a whistler simply has no chance. And everything that is guaranteed in principle by this law will be a dead letter in a paper that can't be confirmed in practice, and the whistler will simply remain a victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88502	The next replica is the respected representative of Baraba Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88503	You spoke, respected MPs, about confidential persons, whether you could explain a little more about the institute from the aspect of submission and malignancy applications that would certainly be part of it, which shouldn't actually be shadowed by the fact that more is reported, that the applicants of protection, but since we know where and how we live, so that part shouldn't be left out of our sight. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88504	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88505	Well, from the experience of someone who took and acted on any reports, there were malignancies, there were non-supervised ones, there were anonymous ones, I'm not afraid of these applications, they could be like rain. I'm only interested in the metrics, whether what the application states is such content, such a quality of quote, a description, is possible evidence that it enables action. You're talking about reliable people, I'm not sure if reliable people can really be so independent, impartial and professionally trained that they're self-evaluating whether it's an understatement. Finally, the application may be motivated by some alternative reasons, but this does not mean that what is stated in the application is not true and does not constitute evidence of abuses and malfeasances. So it's about content.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88506	The next replica is the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88507	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague of mine you've been doing a responsible job and I'd like to ask you to comment on this question of mine. It can't be said that this country is doing nothing. So anyone who's wronged about the law is also arrested, so no matter what party group he belonged to. My question to you is that you also comment, whether we should strengthen the institutions of the state or through this law we will practically come to the fact that every Croat will have his whistler, and then it will actually turn out to be nothing from this law. Because it seems to me that things in the state can only be solved if the institutions that are responsible are strengthened, and now that we have enough repression, we have both education and prevention, but it seems to me that there should be a little more repression. Whoever, no one's gonna make me steal and embezzle something, I don't think they're gonna do it to you, but for those people who do it, they need to be punished so they don't even think about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88508	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88509	Yes, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen institutions in the direction of their independence, in the direction of defining their powers which are too often weak, towards strengthening their human and other logistics capacities. What HDZ does is all the opposite. We've had examples of what happened to the Committee of Decisions on Conflict of Interest, we have an opportunity to see how the DORH works today by comparing it, for example, with the time of Dinko Cvitan. If we talk about what needs to be improved, so here's what digitization could do much to help. How many times have I proposed for this speaker that we have a system of transparent payments and payments from all public authorities and at the same time published all contracts with all public authorities that would also have the information to see whether the obligations are fulfilled, which means whether payments are carried out in accordance with these contracts are defined. If we had that then what was published today in the "National" weekly would have already been revealed to everyone and clearly as corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88510	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88511	colleagues of Oreshković, Art. The 10th is about the responsibility of the applicant, and in Article 2 it is said that the whistler can be held accountable if the information has been obtained through a criminal offence. Now that sounds pretty general to me. Secret recording is a criminal offense, but a lot of corrupt things are revealed just by recording these talks and agreements. Then, let's say disclosure of business secrets is a criminal offense, but also corruption hides very well that it's a business secret and must not be known. Similarly, the classification of data can be very much covered up by corrupt activities, especially in the supply of weapons and everything. I'm asking you as a lawyer and an ex-legal lawyer and to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88512	Thank you, Comrade Matula. Well, you just confirmed what I've been saying all along. Without someone who's an experienced lawyer or a lawyer analyzes this law in the context of all other laws, the whistler is in a situation where the noose around his neck is in trouble, in a break-in or just to a break-in. Namely, secret recording is not allowed to anyone, it can be carried out by an undercover investigator, which means there must be a warrant from the competent national authority, the whistler cannot put a listening device on his own and expect such evidence to be acceptable. Also, as far as business secrets are concerned, there is a reason why the legal system protects a business secret, for example, and a lawyer's secret in some law firm. There are conditions when such business secrets can be revealed, but in any case not by the free finding of one of the whistles and without being referred to by someone who may or may not at some point by this law will be more of a problem to them than protection and protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88513	Following discussions, final hearings. The first is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88514	In the final presentation on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I will stress the importance of accepting the proposals presented in the opening statement because then it will really prevent the manipulation of systems and revenge against applicants, and ensure adequate protection. The problem is the current law that should be amended by this law and has improved the tight circle of the body to which maladministration can be reported, which in practice led to the abuse by employers, and reports which have not been submitted to the specifically mentioned authorities for reporting irregularities have resulted in revenge against the applicants of irregularities and are taught to this inadequate judicial protection. The abuse of the appointment of a confidential person by an employer in such a way that in most cases the names of persons close to the administration, authorised persons to represent the employer, because 20% of employees in the employer are very often controlled by the employer himself. The fact that the application could be submitted directly to the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities only in exceptional cases is therefore possible by employers who refused to report irregularities as unfounded, possible cover-up or destruction of evidence. Also, employers, after reporting irregularities in the cancellation, indicate some kind of work obligation only to cover up the motive for quitting. An excessive period for resolution by the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities which may cause irreparable damage to the applicant. Due to a very small number of complaints brought in order to protect the applicants of irregularities and to the fact that at least one first-degree verdict has not been reached in the procedures for the protection of whistles, there is no case-law and there is no potential public awareness of the system of protection of whistles and the effectiveness of the law so far in force. Whatever the law we have, whistlers will actually always experience unpleasantness, usually losing their jobs, and they will find new ones very difficult. In working disputes, this is generally treated as harm to the employer, loyalty and a legitimate reason for termination. Therefore, in addition to strengthening the awareness of individuals about reporting irregularities, which is necessary to fight corruption, whistles should also be protected. It is therefore necessary to pass a law that will allow adequate protection of whistles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88515	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Nikola Mažar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88516	Thank you, well-respected chairman, distinguished ministers with the secretary of state, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here we have heard today about the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities that first of all this law is necessary, that it is good to bring it today, that it is good that it was not only with the implementation of the EU Directive, but that it is with the adoption of a new law. What we were able to hear first and foremost include commendations for the bill’s proposal, or we could not hear any major grudges or irregularities, that is, the lack of the bill itself. More has been said about the needs, hence legal protection that could be extended or gone to secondary levels and needs, therefore related to the Office of the Attorney General to ensure technical, spatial and human conditions related to the activities ahead and the Office of the Advocate General as well as to all other competent authorities. This certainly shows that the law is not only in the working group or in the public e-consultation well prepared, but shows first and foremost responsibility, the seriousness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make proposals for certain problems which are superseded, which are national, which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is made by the Office of the Ombudsman both by the profession and by the competent authorities. It is before all of us that this law, which we will vote in this House of Highers in the Croatian Parliament, is applicable on the ground, is primarily in the direction of the protection of whistles, but not only of them but also of the protection of persons from trust and their deputies, and therefore it is good to extend and protect not only to whistles, but also to persons who are involved or are in contact with the person who reported it. It is good that workers' councils and union commissioners are also allowed to propose a person of trust, because we know that people of trust above all must be persons who believe precisely those workers who work there, who can feel that they can give them, therefore not only information about irregularities but also their personal data. Therefore, it is good that both a person of trust and a deputy have not only rights, but also obligations and responsibilities, above all, on the protection of the identity of a person reporting irregularities and it is good for them as well as for the employer and for all those participating in the procedure to be made infringements. Therefore, if abuse occurs, each person will also bear a criminal responsibility for his part of the responsibility. It's about all the participants and that's good. It is good, therefore, that the amounts of infringements especially for legal persons, which are found to have made certain irregularities and thus have a dissuasive effect. It is of course important that a specific information campaign is also made in the next period. We heard a few times today, so the Attorney General's Office last year had 45 cases. Of which one part has been transferred since the year before and of course that everyone except for the protection of persons who will report irregularities other than adoption, so these other news that is related to both judicial protection and deadlines and the extension and application and the time series and working environments and revenges that are being conducted both before and after work relations we have that part, and that section of the informational character, so that, above all, the persons who decide and want to show, point out the irregularities have not only full information about their own protection, but also all the ways in which they can make these applications, so not only through internal channels if they do not trust their employer but also have external channels. So, through the Attorney General's Office, but they also have other alternatives. Therefore, I believe that the Ministry of Justice and Administration, as it has been responsible and serious, has also adopted the first law of 2019 now and in this law that we are discussing in the first reading, will bring about an informative campaign and that together there will be optimal conditions for the law to live in full form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88517	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88518	Thank you very much, all of you, the Honorable Minister, the chairman. So we have before us the Law on whistles in the first reading. I hope that there is still so much will and desire of the ministry, including the Government to follow what we have heard here today and which is a welcome contribution to the improvement of this law. What I can say on behalf of the SDP is that we are coming up with two very concrete proposals, and this is in line with the first proposal is according to what the European whistle protection body network proposes in its guidelines. So if we had one central body that could almost help and help with reporting irregularities. So, a central body like, by example, the USKOK, to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Therefore, something that the European Consumer Protection Network itself writes and proposes to consider determining the competent authority which has been identified and positioned as the main, core and central competent authority in the Member State or region and which, in the national law implementing the directive, would give a name, person, contact, number. So it's one place that would guarantee that a whistler simply doesn't remain on its own and that it has to seek its protection in several different places. Secondly, we suggest that society value what whistlers give themselves by denying themselves the comfort of ordinary simple life and when questioning their own existence. So we suggest that at least once a year from this HS reward is simply rewarded and that the prize be named according to the name of one of the most famous whistles that unfortunately lost her life on the day that this bill came to the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities, so according to Ankica Lepoway, who has suffered the consequences of her honorable work throughout her life. I call for all of us to be promoters, not to be a party initiative, so that we grow up to know whose it is and that all society recognizes how unusually commendable and valuable it is to have such people among us, people who are certainly alone by showing up and people who unfortunately will not be protected enough by this law, even with all these possibilities provided by the law cannot expect that the number of applicants of irregularities in Croatia will be higher. For what? Because society is also involved in various interesting forms, which everyone owes someone something simply not enough to resist these claws of corruption. And that is why we have to reward such individuals, we must simply strengthen this system of praise and reward. Corruption cannot be stopped by one law, but it can be done by acting and acting not only through the law but also by acting through the principles set out in the ethical codes and in some procedures concerning the conduct of the authorities of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88519	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88520	Thank you. So, I was already talking on behalf of the club about the need for a wide-ranging social action and a big campaign on the need to report irregularities, we really need a comprehensive change of social paradigm. We have been living for three decades in a society where the verb steals has changed in a good way, and all those who participated in the maesteral privatization theft, who have hired in addition to the competitions similar to that of a party family or a friendly line, who have participated in the planned public procurements that have acquired incredible wealth by misusing public goods, all of them have become more or less esteemed members of this society. At the moment of the arrest of former Minister Žalac, Prime Minister Plenkovic said she was great, that he had not seen anyone else who had such knowledge and enthusiasm. So, at a time when it is quite clear that the Grill has grown deeply into corruption, the prime minister continues to talk about its excellence. It is a message that affirms both corruption and dishonesty, and it is hard to believe that it will encourage citizens to do real and sincere good, let alone report irregularities. Not to mention the rightful verdict for corruption received by the HDZ, and their president didn't consider it necessary or to apologize for getting away with the famous, we're the new HDZ have nothing to do with that old HDZ. In such a society are directors, directors, ministers, powerful people depended on by employees who are a large part of them to a certain extent consciously or unconsciously, deliberately or not intentionally, forcefully or freely, or simply by silence and dissuading part of the corrupt non-proprietary network. To them the top of this country orders you to be with us and you will be well, we will protect you in exchange for your loyalty and close your eyes to all the marifetteluks in which tens of millions of euros of public money go into private pockets, so our money. How is it expected in such a society that this law will motivate citizens to report theft and abuse of positions in every sense? The whistler's law appears to protect him, but the environment largely condemns him because he has excited such a peaceful and comfortable situation, and the system reciprocates him with all its tools, only the final example of Adriana Cvrtila. We will all agree that the law is not enough, it is much more necessary, it is necessary that the true will of the rulings show real zero tolerance for corruption by example because why would citizens report irregularities if the prime minister zealously defends his member of the party's presidency at the time of the arrest in a very clear case of corruption with eu funds, if the main state attorney lies to both the assembly and the Croatian public about the same case. Why would they expose themselves to revenge and revenge if the state's top affirms corrupt behavior? And why do we invite individuals to engage in a risky fight with a corrupt system, why don't we all be whistles? For example, when the opposition order warns of possible corrupt actions or irregularities, it never occurred that the parliamentary majority launched the investigation, however, always turned their heads and claimed that they were all fiction. We support this Law, of course, with the necessary adjustments in the second reading. But without any change in the top of the government, without any change in the social paradigm, without decisive condemnation of corrupt actions or only suspicion of corrupt actions and from their own party or family or among friends and associates, therefore without real and sincere support for whistles and their affirmation in society, without agile and effective justice, the real effect of this Law will not be. Here, already today HDZ has the opportunity to react to the statements by Maja Djerek, and to call on the responsibility of Minister Banozic, the head of the cabinet of Frko Petesic and Parliament President Gordan Jandrokovic. In the spirit of the proposal of this Law, in the spirit of the applicable law, in the spirit of the Declaration of Zero Tolerance on Corruption, only appropriate are their current resignations to the places where they are located. If these resignations are not on the table by the end of today, then it cannot be believed that HDZ has indeed embarked on a decisive fight against corruption. All in all, then it remains the same, and neither this Law will help us nor will the displaced generations return to us because we need to solve corruption together, especially by ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88521	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88522	A few final thoughts. So, a few days after Mrs. Devereaux's death. Beautiful, Ankica Lepoj, the most famous Croatian whistles, we are here today to discuss amendments to the whistles law that should provide additional protection for people who show, as we have said many times, incredible civic courage because they dare, imagine, to point to irregularities. And today, therefore, we live in a society where the indication of irregularities is exceptional civil courage, not civic duty or duty. So these are the people who dare to go against the current and against the one known and bent bow their heads and do not wave. So no, they wave, point to irregularities, and then this society thanks them, in what way? In a way to chicanize them, to put them on a pillar of shame, to get very often fired on their jobs, here, let's just look at the fate of Ankica Lepoway. Why don't people dare report irregularities? Why, here, don't they dare and express their civic duty, is it, no, I'd say civic courage, but indeed a civic duty. So here they are, I can look at all these examples of these whistles that have happened to them so far in their lives. So, they're threatened, they're threatened by politics, why, after all, don't people dare engage in politics? Here, why, when you invite someone to engage, here in political work, why don't they dare? And because politics threatens to lose their jobs, entrepreneurs are threatened to, I don't know, come with big inspections, see if a fire extinguisher is going to give them 37 centimeters off the floor, and if that's why they're going to get some big punishment, impose some kind of intrusion on them. So people don't dare report irregularities, so people don't dare to do community service. Protecting whistles from revenge and dishonesty from persecution encourages and encourages employees, actually encourages all citizens to report irregularities in their environment. The goal should be for all of us, whether we live in such a society, that irregularities are discovered as soon as possible, even prevented or punished, and the mistake is to take this as some kind of operational burden for companies, is it often said, this is another additional imposition, an additional administration to companies, but the protection of whistles in the end line, in one company improves organisational culture, preserves the reputation and image of that company, increases quality and productivity, acts positively on the results of business. This is when we talk about irregularities in any company. This law is really here, bringing some kind of newspaper, introducing some new elements to the protection of whistles, but we had this law before. We've had it before with some dose of protection and we see, as with its application, we didn't know how many amendments to the law, but no matter how many changes we have, if we don't apply it, if the case law doesn't follow the desire not to kill the messenger, but to protect those who point to irregularities, we won't make much progress. We will continue to admire the courage of few individuals who point to irregularities and who ultimately bear the burden of fighting corruption and crime on their backs. We tend, I'd say, to modern society, to societies like society, to which they've escaped, here, in the last 30 years, almost a million inhabitants of this country. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88523	Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Here we are, at the request of our electronic service, 10 minutes break due to, so we'll proceed at 14.55. MEETING AT 14.45 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.56 HOURS]] The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Minister Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88528	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs are before you the proposals for amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law and the Consumer Bank Act implementing the Directive on frameworks for preventive restructuring, discharge of debt and bans and measures to increase the effectiveness of the procedures relating to restructuring, insolvency and debt waiver. The proposed changes to the bankruptcy law introduce an early warning system in order to inform legal persons and entrepreneurs where the competent authorities of any difficulty in business in time and to provide them with the possibility of consulting ways to address the financial difficulties that have arisen. In addition, issues related to the appointment of bankruptcy managers and the way in which they are assigned shall be settled. In this respect, the conditions for the appointment of bankruptcy managers shall be redefined. Only a person of legal or economic profession with at least 3 years experience in the legal or economic profession will be able to access the expert examination. The system A and B lists and the system of assigning the cases to bankruptcy managers shall be redefined. Instead of a list of A and B bankruptcy managers, they will be entered in the list of highly qualified bankruptcy managers and a list of qualified bankruptcy managers. The list of highly qualified bankruptcy managers will be subject to registration by only persons enrolled in the list of bankruptcy managers for at least 7 years and appointed as insolvency manager in at least 2 bankruptcy proceedings relating to medium and large entrepreneurs and who have successfully completed at least 2 bankruptcy proceedings by confirming the bankruptcy plan. This will further professionalise the role of bankruptcy managers, allow for better quality implementation of bankruptcy procedures and improve the system of allocation of cases. The pre-departure procedure amends the provisions relating to the vote on the restructuring plan. If, by the start of the vote, the creditors do not declare whether they are in favour or against restructuring or are declared in a way that it is not possible to unequivocally determine how they voted, they will be deemed to have voted in favour of the plan. According to current practice, no vote or not a statement on the restructuring plan was considered to be an opposition to the restructuring plan. Such a system prevented the implementation of the plan and increased the possibility of such companies going into bankruptcy. A new system of collection and monitoring of bankruptcy data, for example, will be introduced to monitor data on the average cost of the bankruptcy process, the number of entrepreneurs who have passed the procedure leading to debt forgiveness, the number of entrepreneurs who have launched a new job after bankruptcy, the number of lost jobs that are linked to bankruptcy proceedings and other data. Amendments are proposed to ensure greater protection of the rights of workers whose companies are in bankruptcy. The bankruptcy managers or the court will be required to inform HZZO on time of bankruptcy, thus ensuring the right of all health insurance workers. Workers who are on sick leave will be informed that their working relationship with the date on which the company was deleted from the court register has ceased. The second paper refers to the fact that the State Election Commission will also be authorised to declare the demands of workers and represent them in a bankruptcy procedure based on budget searches, institutions or funds. This amendment will ensure that gross salaries of workers are settled if there are sufficient funds in the bankruptcy mass, even if the bankruptcy manager and workers have not reported claims from the base of pay in the bankruptcy procedure. The changes and additions of the Consumer Bank Act will reduce the time of consumer behaviour checks from 5 to 3 years. Provisions on the call of citizens or consumers meeting the conditions for consumer bankruptcy are further regulated. Under the proposed amendments, FINA will call on the citizen, will deliver calls to citizens and consumers within 30 days of the adoption of a solution to reject proposals for the implementation of a simple consumer bankruptcy process. Then from a solution to reject the proposal for the implementation of a simple consumer bankruptcy procedure, a solution to suspend the simple process of consumer bankruptcy from receiving a powerful solution on the exemption from remaining obligations and over three years of receiving a negative indication of the call for the implementation of the simple process of consumer bankruptcy. Further regulation of the delivery of calls to citizens wants to enable them to resolve their financial problems or debts more easily and faster. The additional news is that FINA will issue to the Commissioner in the process of consumer bankruptcy a list of registered receipts and fees that are excluded from the exercise. On the basis of these data, the Commissioner will inform the payer that there is a protected account on which they are obliged to pay the receipts and charges of the consumer, thereby further safeguarding the rights of persons with debts. The amendments and additions to these proposed laws will ensure a better quality of implementation of pre-banking procedures, create a legal framework for the establishment of an effective early warning system, ensure greater protection of insolvency workers' rights and enable consumers to deal with financial problems or debt more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88529	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88530	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. You, in these amendments and the additions of the law, have predicted that lawyers are precisely the economists most invited to be bankruptcy managers, so I'm interested in how did you come to that conclusion, based on which knowledge of the research you've come to this? And you've predicted continued education by the ministry, so I'm curious who's going to do it? Will it be employees of the ministry or members of the academic community or perhaps some combination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88531	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So when we prepared, in particular, these amendments relating to bankruptcy managers, we certainly took into account the practice and analysis of the work of bankruptcy managers. Of course, we have also communicated with bankruptcy managers associations, and we have come to this solution where most of the current bankruptcy managers have been legal and economic professions, and in fact legal economic knowledge is most necessary for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, and for this reason we have actually joined these changes and have limited ourselves exclusively to the legal and economic profession. With these amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, the ministry is taking on this more important role among the bankruptcy managers themselves because in practice we have had many examples of not being satisfied with the conduct of the courts themselves. In this way we introduce compulsory education and control itself of these bankruptcy managers after this law is certainly education something that we will have to education about is something that we will discuss and will certainly include the bankruptcy managers, the academic community, but also the representatives of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88532	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88533	Good afternoon, Minister. Do you feel that these changes and additions have yet to be done to protect workers in these bankruptcy proceedings? In fact, a lot is changing, but it doesn't change. 254.St. 2nd and 3rd, where we should be able to increase the amount of funds that is determined as the cost of cashing out of a decisive right to raise it to 15% in order to make it easier for workers to collect their claims from assets means that the bankruptcy takes place so that the worker can be charged more easily because we know those cases like Dina and Dioki where Robert Ježić has charged all the property in the company with decisive rights in banks and then de facto prevents workers from being charged if there is a sale of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88534	Thank you very much. So here I would point out that the position of the workers in the bankruptcy proceedings is particularly important and important and these proposed changes certainly improves the position of the workers and in the part of the notice of the bankruptcy process itself, but also their rights arising from the working relationship. The law is in the first reading and here is certainly the basis and discussion on the parliamentary committees, but we can also advance these plenary discussions until the second reading of this law that if we do, and certainly through today's debate we will consider and revise these provisions, especially those relating to the position of the workers in the bankruptcy process because, as I said, workers are important to us, and here we will do everything possible in accordance with the applicable legislation to protect the workers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88535	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88536	Thank you. Dear Minister. That's where you're complementing the article. In 89th of the existing law, if there is now a bankruptcy manager, he must inform HZZO in time of bankruptcy problems that the rights of health insurance workers would not be questioned. First of all, do you think HZO alone is enough and what about other health insurance companies? And secondly, do you think that this will end legal uncertainty for workers in cases where, despite being informed in time, that certain deadlines for application are still missed? So is this all going to be enough protection for a worker who is going to lose his rights because of his employer's failure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88537	So, when we were preparing these amendments and this part relating to HZZO's notification, we were led to the fact that the health insurance workers' rights were not questioned, and this proposal, which is in front of you today, is certainly going in that direction, and we believe that this will lead to the rights of the workers resulting from health insurance not being questioned. I'm saying, we think this notice to HZZO is enough to protect the rights of workers, but here's what I said and we're going to consider all the suggestions that come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88538	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88539	Dear Minister. I'll continue on this question. In fact, we know that HZZO data is updated based on HZMO data and based on employment data, that's what I'm saying for people who are employed. Therefore, when a person is employed, data from the employer according to HZMO, then... these data are transferred to HZZO and we have information that the worker is insured and health insurance and that he has pension insurance or if he is at the Employment Service, the Employment Office reports that the worker is an office worker and automatically has health insurance on the grounds that he is at the employment office. What's the difference now? So we still have the mechanism exactly the same. HZZO, we've got an employment agency that's got one more, one more time to notify HZZO that the workers of this job at the employment office or that they've lost their jobs, and we know they've lost their job through HZMO data.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88540	Thank you very much, so here is an analysis of the current conduct in bankruptcy proceedings, so we have come to the fact that HZZO was not familiar and that often workers were left without health insurance rights, or that there was a certain interruption and in fact with this legislative solution and notification of the health insurance services, so we avoid the situation that some interruptions are already taking place, so workers are already building on the basis of and informing the health care services continue to exercise health insurance rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88541	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88542	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, as in the explanation of one and the other draft laws, you are already saying in the opening elements that encouraging the crown or the Covid-19 crisis is one of the reasons why we are going to change one and the other law because this situation has made things stronger and some relationships so that it is necessary to change the law as well as the name itself when we have P.Z.E. and compliance with EU directives. The directives are so clear and everything. What I am interested in is why we often go into harmony now because EU directives are what they are, but where there is one part of what we have concluded through implementation and implementation because we are already talking about the long-term application of bankruptcy law, as you say, are the problems of some long deadlines, the problems of other procedures and everything else. Will only inclusion and compliance with the directive allow it to really come to this or should there be another step perhaps a small step or a small step? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88543	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for asking. Therefore, when a directive is transposed into legislation and a working group is formed to amend the law or to adapt the directive adopted, there are also a number of issues which are likely to be raised by practice or by acting on the basis of that law unrelated to the directive itself. And in fact, even when we changed this law and adapted it and transposed the directive, certain questions were raised. First of all, it is the issue of bankruptcy managers but also this one, and these questions that you are, which are now mentioned, therefore informing HZZO about bankruptcy, then the newspaper is also unrelated to the directive itself and including the State's attorney that it can report the claims of workers and represent them in bankruptcy proceedings. So there are a number of amendments made in this law that are not related to the transposition of the directive, and I believe that, together with the directive transposing it, they will improve the legislative framework relating to bankruptcy, consumer bankruptcy. Because he is aware of the facts and of the circumstances that occurred after the pandemic Covida-19. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88544	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88545	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we are witnessing that the problem of the insolvency of business entities has been further expressed by the arrival of the Covid-19 pandemic at EU level, with 200,000 business entities closing their doors, thus affecting millions of jobs. We are also witnessing that thanks to concrete, strong and adequate measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia only to preserve jobs, 700,000 jobs and 120,000 employers were saved precisely by these concrete measures at the right time. And now that we are bringing amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law and the Consumer Bank Act, can you say, we have heard that workers' rights will also be helped, but also employers to start their restructuring in time when we can expect concrete results related to these changes and additions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88546	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, the pre-fashion and bankruptcy legislative framework has been significantly improved in Croatia for several years. Among the participants in these proceedings, there remains some thinking and thinking that the current non-soldic system is still burdened with unnecessary formalities and that bankruptcy procedures can last too long as it certainly affects the restructuring of sustainable debtors and the preservation of already created values. For this reason, with certain changes not related to the transposition of the directive itself, we are trying to simplify the bankruptcy or pre-banking process, but also to speed up the bankruptcy process by taking care of the protection of all stakeholders in the process, primarily by workers. So I believe that, that these changes that are here today are just another addition to the changes that started back a few years, that we have a quality legislative framework because we are aware of the situation that you yourself pointed out that millions of workers are actually covered The effects of the pandemic. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88547	Next replica, the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88548	The Honorable Chairman and the Ministers, the Secretary of State, so first of all, one brief little satisfaction, I will ask you two short questions and replicas, since this is a united debate and bankruptcy law and consumer bankruptcy law, so I think, in short, that one of the biggest newspapers is just the introduction of this early warning by the debtor is one of the Crucial Institute and a term that is being introduced into our bankruptcy law because at the moment of such change, I think it's more difficult to return I think this institution is necessary. Whether in this context you will also apply the OCDE rules of corporate governance or whether we will know more about that regulation that you mentioned in which direction you will be reading, and this second brief comment and question regarding the Consumer Banks Act. I welcome this deadline reduction from 10 to 6 to 5 to 3 years, respectively. It's so-called. Some grace period so whether it will give citizens, enable and what are the predictions.../Intruders: Time. to give them a second chance in economic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88549	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88550	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, through this, these changes to the bankruptcy law certainly develop certain early warning mechanisms and tools that will actually signal to debtors in financial problems that certain treatment and certain action are needed without delay in order to avoid bankruptcy. And we keep it very important and important, therefore, this process of getting to know each other, and we certainly have the support and cooperation of the ministry, the Ministry of Finance. What is also important is that I did not point out that the basis and these changes will develop a system of data collection related to bankruptcy proceedings, pre-fashion proceedings that will actually provide the basis for some further reflection on the improvement of the legislative framework. As regards the Consumer Banks Act, as you pointed out, certain deadlines are shortened, consumer protection itself is also strengthened, and I believe that through this package and transposition of the directive and some additional changes, we will have a more quality legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88551	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I open the debate, the first to debate is the registered Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and the respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88552	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is a country that has a number of specificities, and when it comes to bankruptcy, we can even boast that we have had one finance minister followed by the nickname "myster bankruptcy" because he has sent a whole series of non-equity companies into bankruptcy. Prof. The host of the Sitter who doctored on the subject of bankruptcy says. Due to lack of transparency in bankruptcy proceedings, creditors are not fully settled, bankruptcy managers are paid a lot of rewards even in situations where there is no payment for creditors, it is not possible to reconstruct the concrete activities of bankruptcy managers, and those in bankruptcy proceedings have the opportunity to take activities that go to the detriment of the settlement of creditors. By the way, Professor... The site was doctored on bankruptcy issues and in Croatia over 17 years, for which Professor Sitter pulled out more than 14,000 bankruptcys worth 112 billion kuna. Of which, 6.8 billion kuna was paid for the legal fees of 250 bankruptcy managers. There are 50 judges involved in these bankruptcys, and there have been illegal receipts testifying to an affair of which I will list 2 of the most famous. Most of the affairs are closely co-operated by the bankruptcy manager and the judge, the amounts they illegally provided to millions. The first affair was accused of transferring money from the account of the creditor to other accounts, loans, reselling business premises and camps on the coast, and all to benefit himself or his associates. The most money from 2005 to 2017 was when they were arrested in a jumping action pulled out of Glumina Banka which fell even further in 2003, and today it is in bankruptcy. The total amount charged increased to 45 million kuna during that period. Well, it's not bad to be a bankruptcy judge in Croatia. A second affair called fictitious bankruptcy with other actors since 2009 so far, the money acquired by the debtors has been transferred either to their private accounts or to the accounts of the companies that were owned or linked to them. In some cases, it was a fictitious bankruptcy process, and it is suspected that about 30 million kunas were obtained in this innovative way. A total of 23 companies in bankruptcy, 6 stock companies and 17 limited liability companies are among the injured. So who wouldn't be the bankruptcy manager in Croatia when all these malfeasances are possible. These affairs are also one of the reasons why we are discussing amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy law today. The only question this document was supposed to answer before us is the following. Will these changes and additions prevent the malversions I've just made? Will bankruptcy proceedings be quick, just and effective, or will they be held back as they have so far in order for bankruptcy managers to benefit from corrupt judges? And ultimately, will companies that ended up in bankruptcy get more reliable and more capable bankruptcy managers, and workers get more protection? What draws attention to the document is Article 55, based on which only those who are legal or economic professions can access the expert examination for the insolvency manager. Apparently, they're the best to do the business of a bankruptcy manager. If they weren't immune to malfeasance and corrupt actions, we've seen from those jump cases. But is that so? So all these judges who were in these above-mentioned affairs were just legal professions. I appreciate the fact that every grain has a weed in it, but if it is judged by the events in the Osijek County Court when judges for bribes ended up in detention in this branch, there may be a little too much of it, so I have to ask myself if the author of these changes and the supplement failed to follow the events in Croatia over the past years. And I really don't see why lawyers and economists would be more alike than some other professions. What is missing for engineers of construction, engineering or electrical engineering who have completed their master’s degree in economics since college or some of the GNP programs at business schools? Why would they be less qualified to do the business of a bankruptcy manager? In addition, in the same Article of Article 2(2), it says that a professional examination may be approached by a person who attended mandatory preparations for passing an expert examination for a bankruptcy manager in the organisation of a ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The bankruptcy manager must also professionally perfect himself according to Article 4. 55th and again organized by the ministry. So we have to ask ourselves whether this ministry is going to organise and set up a new academy in view of all these additional education, preparation, etc.? Just as I asked the minister, it is evident that civil servants, probably part of them in the leadership positions, will earn something on the side. So let's remember Secretary of State, Josepha Rimac, who arranged for state exams to be passed by model, hello, my party colleague. Part of the civil servants will obviously earn more money on these exams, preparations, education. And we have to ask ourselves, what do people do in colleges for five years when no matter what they learn in colleges until they're questioned in the ministry, they obviously don't know anything? We have no problem with people from the ministry still working further, they already have state exams, and now they're going to have this about bankruptcy managers, but it really turns out that we don't need schools and colleges, and in principle you're going to prove that I'm wrong if the employees of the ministry are going to do it as much as possible for one daily, not that they have 20, 30 or 40 kuna per subject as they have to pass state exams. Then calculate for one Saturday as much as anyone else can make on the side. If you commit that it will not be as it is now then we Croatian sovereigns will say that this is okay and we will support this law. Otherwise, you don't have our support because it's simply a shameless time of record inflation of daily gatherings. So tell the HS days that everyone who works on these educations will earn a daily maximum of one daily because that's exactly what you're doing in the ministry and we'll support this law otherwise we don't have our support. Also in art. In 60th, it is said that the selection of a bankruptcy manager will be done by means of a random selection method. Sounds very fair, by chance, to whom he comes, but if he does schedule this primary selection to so-called. The Academy of the Ministry then it is in principle and completely irrelevant because the court can do so in accordance with Article. In the 60th century, 2nd century, name someone else if they consider that the bankruptcy manager chosen by random selection is not qualified to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. How the judge will determine that, we'll have to take his word for it, too. Someone will say I'm exaggerating, probably, but after all you've done for us over the past few years, you have to understand that every man in Croatia smokes cold, and this is not cold, but leaves the possibility of guessing everywhere. After all the affairs that we're witnessing how anyone can believe that this isn't another way to take care of your listeners as we see from our research, A site of very lucrative places, about the possibilities of a variety of malversions that we don't even talk about. And in an individual debate, I will look back at the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88553	The next debate is on behalf of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists and respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88554	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The inability to pay due commitments within the deadlines, their maturity and life facts unfortunately in the world of a dynamic and modern economy about half of the entrepreneurs have been operating for less than five years, but the number is on the rise, and the number of payment opportunities within the deadlines and their maturity has doubled since the beginning of this covid crisis, and this trend continues both in Croatia and throughout the EU. The dynamics of bankruptcy statistics in the Republic of Croatia are not sufficiently explored because of structural instability, and because of the frequent reform bankruptcy systems which wish the bankruptcy process to be completed as quickly as possible, the situation of the bankruptcy manager was not acted systematically and more serious research was not carried out on the models of the organisation of bankruptcy management services, but only revised bankruptcy regulations which were currently thought to lead to some results quickly. Therefore, it remains questionable whether the reform issue is in place and was of great importance qualified and well-trained bankruptcy management potential for the effective functioning of the bankruptcy system. The carrying out of the business of the bankruptcy manager is a legally complex business of management of the assets of the creditor on behalf of the court who conducts the proceedings and, for the expense of the creditor, the asset of the creditor. And there's always the possibility of a great abuse here. Reform of the Banking Act 2015 and its subsequent amendment 2017 and by following regulations, a major step has been made in the regulation of positions, responsibilities and rewards and compensation of the costs of the bankruptcy manager. These amendments should be initiated on the grounds of its adoption, which is primarily to comply with the provisions of the Restructuring and Insolvency Directive, which aims, among other things, to ensure that bankruptcy managers receive adequate training, and to have the necessary expertise to carry out their duties as well as to take account of their acceptability, and the procedures for the appointment and resolution and giving of resignations are clear, transparent and fair in order to avoid any abuse of the system. A significant change is the one with regard to how to resolve bankruptcy managers, Article 91 by which the court would be able, at the request of a committee of creditors or a congregation of creditors, to resolve the bankruptcy administrator if it fails to carry out its duties successfully or for other important reasons, and in particular if it does not act on the court's order. Therefore, the existing provision under which the bankruptcy manager of bankruptcy should cash in within a year and a half from the holding of the reporting hearing for objective reasons has been abolished. It was particularly problematic in situations where the debtor had more bankruptcy and there were major problems. According to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the continuation of the reform of regulated professions in the form of a reduction of the barrier is, on the other hand, stricter entry into the profession, although the bankruptcy managers are restrictively regulated through the quota that should be lifted from this bill does not foresee this. These amendments will also allow insolvent and over-indebted entrepreneurs to benefit from full debt waiver after a reasonable period of time allowing them to continue their business. The implementation of those measures in the reform area of justice will result in an improvement in the current negative position towards bankruptcy as a process primarily aimed at liquidating the assets of debtors by domestic parties, as well as international investors, thus also improving the general business environment and business practices. The aim is to encourage sustainable entrepreneurs to restructure at an earlier stage in order to prevent insolvency and continue business. The necessary amendments to the legislation lay down a solution that will balance the existing system of pre-demand and bankruptcy, and further improve it by respecting everything necessary for the bankruptcy and pre-demand proceedings to be implemented quickly, efficiently and economically, and for sustainable businesses and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to have access to effective national frameworks for the primary restructuring that enables them to continue their work. The length of proceedings acquired is one of the problems that has been constantly present since the entry into force of the bankruptcy law. Regarding the length of bankruptcy proceedings, the length of other types of judicial proceedings stemming from an open bankruptcy procedure is also one of the major problems that are of an impact on the unresolved relationship with the debtor. Although doing the World Bank's business report has been lifted, it remains relevant. One of the biggest structural problems with the business climate is the long-term bankruptcy process. As liberals, we are interested in how much and how much on average the bankruptcy process is going to take and how much the timeframe will be shortened compared to previous years and what is changed specifically by this law to speed up trade courts, i.e. to ensure that the procedures in most cases, including in Zagreb, last no more than a year. In any case, we, as liberals, welcome these changes, which contribute, however, to the economic activity and to the maintenance of the business activities of bankruptcy firms in major problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88555	Thank you very much. Now here comes Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, speaking on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88556	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. We are before us in a united debate in the first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act. Somehow, we've been going from the beginning. We have been living for two years at a time of one pandemic of covid-19 disease caused by the SARS cov-2 virus, where all some of the things that might be going differently, calmer and simpler have been significantly potentiated and significant has been escalating, so it is also one of the reasons why the EU directives are, and why you decided to amend these two laws for the simple reason why all things are potentiated, so this problem is also potential. I always look at every law I see and come into debate with a few aspects. One aspect is the way the law is prepared for us, the other is form and the third is content. It would be extremely good for a second reading, and we can do that and I'm using this plenary session somehow to stay in the record to a little bit enhance your meaty explanation. What am I saying? A little bit with the data. So you have here data at EU level that happens in five years. Let's see what it's like in the last two, three years with us, what are your deadlines where something goes into bankruptcy, how many bankruptcys, how many are finished. I asked the Committee on the Legislatives of the Secretary-General how many bankruptcy managers we have, how many we expect there to be, now you have two categories of those that are basic for a year and all, and the others that have to have 7 years of internships and 2 experiences. I've tried with associations that are, the Association of Banks Managers come up with some data to even compare a little bit of those figures actually what we all want together. All together I guess we want it to be faster, to be more successful, to be more transparent. Likely, those who are bankrupt managers do not want their names and last names to be withdrawn only in some negative context through the media, but also to see all other things. So I'm asking you between the first and second readings it's possible to do that, or add a little bit of information to which the ministry is sure to barat, to see what's going on with us at all. We have this data that you have referred to and said at EU level is that about half of entrepreneurs exist for less than 5 years, approximately, every year 200 thousand across the EU face insolvency and as a result, millions of people remain jobless. So, which specificities so far have been in Croatia and what you meet and which models you have to make it faster, more pro-pulsant, more transparent, more open. We have a part of the entrepreneurs, i.e. the part that they've opened up companies, companies, they've tried to do something and they're very quick to realize that it's not going any further they've decided on some other model and it's one group. The second group is those entrepreneurs we had the opportunity to meet, who, when one company goes into bankruptcy, opens another, third or fourth, and this Law, you have made a proposal, or the way it is followed, and the third group is the one long process, the long procedure from which people are left without a job and have a lot of problems that they still face. So, I kind of think we at the Center and Voice Club think that any amendments and addition of the law must take a step forward. We appreciate that there has been a step forward here too, so the part where EU directives have pointed to the problem that needs to be addressed. There should always be a distinction between the part of the problem that is related to the directive, that is, the part of the problem that is very much related to our system. You know, everyone, I am, by the way, absolutely supporting both the option and the variant, and I think it's extremely good for Croatia to be an EU member, but I always think that when we look at certain directives and we build them into our legislation that we should also take care of our specificities. It's very important here that even these laws could work one day, it's a very important emphasis on tracking data. So, that you can at all follow all the procedures that are being conducted, everything that's happened. I remember one, one pre-election campaign where we talked about digitisation, or all of us talked about digitization, and in some way, this time, and really all the time, I kind of have a need and a reference to the topic that, where we live together with Covid where some things are really enhanced and the need for you from your own home to be able to solve things, but not only that, therefore, a continuous part of people working from home and part, when you work from home, you need all the tools of the digital world that are provided, to be available to you. When it comes to this second bill, or when it comes to consumer bankruptcy, there's a lot of this, how it works and how it works by e-List, so it would be good to know, some data, how much, how much, how it works, what do I mean to tell you? When we get the justification of one law, then you should always see what are some specificities, what are the specificities of us. Otherwise, I'm going to refer to something a little bit more about the bankruptcy managers. The bankruptcy managers always get the point when someone's doing something wrong, when someone's being wrong about something, when it's the cover of the media full of it, and then everybody's being surprised to say, look, what's been done now. We should always ask ourselves why this is so, or should we ask ourselves, how much behind these bankruptcy managers who have received the cover has those who are decent, responsible, consciously, correctly doing their job, so that it would be good to have that information and have that information to know. What I'm interested in is, I might be interested in the answer to the second reading, so they're divided, you don't have that and you don't have a B group anymore than they are divided, that other group, you have to have seven years of experience and two cases that have been successfully completed. I'm curious about what just happened to seven years ago, it's always these interesting questions, why not five or something, I'm guessing there's some kind of experience out there. A colleague before me was already talking about being legal or economic professions, I guess it comes from data to see what bankruptcy managers are today, but what I like to talk about from this pay phone and I'm going to use it this time, the subject of education. We all, then, teach each other, finish their high school education, some graduates of college, go on, go on to a doctorate, or whatever a man chooses, but it's important to educate himself all the time. I am sure that education must be continued and continued, that is what the EU has taught us, that the result of education must ultimately be certified, some certificate. My, my kids once said that, say, our mom asks that if you're done and dance school, that you have confirmation that you're done because if you don't have confirmation, it's not worth it. I'm not going to say it's not worth it, but if we want to do some steps forward, and I always try to look at the meaning in all the laws, which we are.../incomprehensible/... why we're doing this, whether that amendment and the addition of the law is done by some ministry or something because there is now it's up to him or it's long or long now, maybe there's more changes and additions than another ministry. I don't think that's the reason. I think the reason in any ministry lies in a few facts. One of the fact that, of course, you follow the trends that are in Europe, which are read through the EU directives and where you have a commitment to some harmonisation. But it's not just a fact to me. It's a fact to me that it's being followed, to see what the problem is and then to try it through the amendment and the addition of the law to solve this problem that's specific to us. If we have, what you have recognised as a problem, the problem of the length of the process, the problem of insufficient, insufficient information, the problem of workers who remain after bankruptcy is in an invisible situation, the problem of insufficient education, the problem of small, large, medium number of those bankruptcy managers, then it is through the amendment and addition of the law that answers these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88557	Thank you very much. It is now ahead of SDP's Club of Representatives next to Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88558	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the ministry. So, I'm going to go a little bit differently in my debate, given that in the very reasons of these points it is, among other things, stated that one of the goals and the purpose of this is to facilitate business and to deal with some of the things that it has brought among other things and covid pandemics. Now, I would like to make a little turn here and point out that I would personally prefer that we started with discussions and about the need for structural reforms of our economy. Some of them brought corona, some of them still have inflation, some structural problems in the economy we have had for 20 and 30 years because we haven't done switch until the end in our social and economic order. But I can joke a little bit, maybe this is what it took to start a clean start and clear up some relationships, and then after that, God will come up and debate what the real structural reforms that our economy needs, and not just start creating conditions for cleaning up the system and cleaning up the economy. When we talk about what laws have been passed so far to the Republic of Croatia, and we must admit that even with citizens who see it on the side, or with creditors, mainly workers who were in these bankruptcy processes were not really laws that brought a lot of positive emotions and that afterwards it was not exactly that it remained a sweet and pleasant taste in the mouth. Okay. We will all agree that as soon as we talk about bankruptcy or those famous pre-profit deals that it is not something that is pleasant and that there are certain problems where there are no positive and beautiful emotions, but it literally comes to someone saving life and private existence, someone is trying to save the company they are leading, and someone is trying to save their company through the payment of debts. But we also have to admit that all of these Croatian models, all of what we had in our bankruptcy laws and pre-banking deals, have, unfortunately, been the way to create some new injustices, and that it simply allows someone to be rich or sheltered from the means that someone else has made available to them or that they simply live very well without having to pay workers at all. Such examples in these 30 years of the Republic of Croatia have a lot, and it is one of the key reasons why this law simply does not make people unpositive emotions, but do not believe that when we talk about the very bankruptcy that it is something that can be used in the economy many times and for something that can ultimately be very good and can reverse a certain trend and help both workers and other believers themselves. Of course, the affairs that we have seen in these decades have contributed to this because we have to admit that we have had a lot of bankruptcy managers who have done their job very honestly, very honorably in accordance with our laws, whatever they were in some stages of their life journey, but that we have had some bankruptcy managers who have contributed to the fact that they have come in among the people of that mantra that we have in Croatia, among other things, a bankruptcy mafia that has not used all these bankruptcys in a way to help the workers, to help the believers, to see what can be saved in the economic system, but simply used bankruptcy for the personal wealth and reconciliation of their friends, acquaintances, partners, not to use some more difficult words. And when we add it up and subtract it, it's safe not to move and all of this in some pre-optious and overturning positive tone, because in order for all of these wrong rivers to turn around and to begin to return faith in that instrument we have to be aware that we all have to change a lot together, we have to iron out a lot of things, and a lot of things in the coming years we just have to do differently. To know that this bankruptcy law is a model where you can save and revitalize certain activities, but that there may be certain tools and guarantees on the other hand if it is impossible to protect primary workers, then believers and not what we have seen in many past situations and models. This law is one part in line with European directives. On the other hand, we have a few steps where we take certain actions to keep some narrow throats apart and not to have them that way anymore. We hope that in the next debate and when it will be possible to submit amendments to the debate and at the level to determine how reasonable it is for the implementation of bankruptcy, because there are certain questionnaires here, we have certain comments on how the payment takes place when we reach the fourth auction and a few more toothpicks we have found and we think that they can do better in the legal solution itself and simply make this change one of those last steps, that the law finally works in a fair and adequate way. The bankruptcy of consumers who are in front of us today is the same way that we would even discuss it except for this part, that certain things are also improving, that we will point to some things in our discussions, that there is harmonisation with European directives. Before that, we should draw a line and say whether this law as such has ever been brought to life. My personal position is, while we have hundreds of thousands, 200,000 blocked citizens and fellow citizens in our country, as well as the analysis itself shows that the use of this law was very little, we have to admit that the Consumer Bank Act itself has never lived up to the end among our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, and we simply hope that this harmonisation, some of our future discussions and proposals and the ultimate proposal that we are ready to support today, as well as the changes to the bankruptcy law itself can contribute to this law as well in a better, better and more adequate direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88559	You, too. Mr Bernardic will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88560	Greetings, esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have before us the Law on the bankruptcy procedure in the first reading. Otherwise, this Act is in line with the EU Directive 2017 relating to restructuring and insolvency, as well as the amendments to that Directive of 2019 aimed at strengthening the national bankruptcy framework. First question right away at the beginning of what year is it now? 2022. So, how can we trust you, Vlad, to have a serious intention to do something if it took you 3 years just to rewrite what Europe has sent you and unfortunately you have prescribed it badly because this Law has not received support, first of all, from the professional public, and on its back the pendrek of this Law will feel particularly citizens and small entrepreneurs, as well as workers, who you have ignored again and who, of course, are unprotected, at least in implementation. They're the ones who always pull out the thick end. When it comes to the bankruptcy of citizens, therefore, the bankruptcy of consumers, except that the deadline of good behaviour is reduced from 5 to 3 years old, is actually just beginning to be uncertain because their fate is being transferred to municipal courts where unfortunately there is simply not enough practice on bankruptcy, i.e. when it comes to insolvency proceedings. You know very well, the minister is not here, and I have wrongly seen, that it takes years of experience, so the representatives of the ministry, that someone becomes a good judge in bankruptcy law because this issue is extremely complex, it includes intertwining both material and procedural law and requires a foothold in a number of other laws, such as, for example, the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thus, by this proposal, the bankruptcy procedure for citizens, so consumer bankruptcy is actually becoming a major experiment, and this government has taught us that their expensive experiments are paying citizens right now. Just look at the experimentation of Minister Horvat about the restoration, more than a year after the earthquake in Bani without any renovated house. 2 years since the earthquake in Zagreb, with only one renovated building and that of Prime Minister Frka Petesic's friend. Another important issue to be raised when it comes to this law is the issue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So, when it comes to them, Croatia has not decided to follow the practices of the most advanced European countries, so there are no simple specific procedures in this part, but as the law says and so on. 52 and new section 5, when setting up these groups, the court shall take special care to protect vulnerable creditors such as small suppliers. So the first question is what are vulnerable believers? What are small suppliers in the legal definition and then in the spirit of law enforcement and which means that the court will take special care. So this is in no way covered by this bill. In fact, you admit that in the implementation you simply did not prepare steps to implement it. So, nothing. Zero, blank. By the way, most often small believers are also the most vulnerable because they do not have their own business or legal service, they often cannot react without spot when it comes to pre-fashion or bankruptcy and are often the last in line with the charges, usually when there is no more property. The economies of Italy, Germany, France, so the most developed European countries rest precisely on the SMIs and on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are the basis of the resistance of their economies, and by this law, they have again been kind of skipped and bypassed by having simply fallen under the category of all. Another major problem, so the third one that I quote in this Law refers to international entities. So this is not well arranged for their position or insurance of demand, which can result in, ha actually there are fewer foreign investments already. So foreign investment in Croatia falls, it is extremely visible, they fall from year to year, and while Croatia is struggling to increase its GDP, while Croatia is tormented that we actually stop being the poorest member of the EU, which we are now, de facto other than Bulgaria, you are sending a message from the government simply, foreign investors are not important to us, protecting foreign investors simply is not important. The Law itself is for example. full of other illogicalities, such as, for example, new art. 7a no. 2, which is that the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the auditors will be obliged to warn the debtor of the negative development in its payment they have seen in the context of their activities. So the Tax Administration, first of all, does not have data on which it could warn the debtor of negative developments in its payment. That's the first fact. Secondly, this proposal would require new administrative costs, new reports, new administrative burdens and new costs for all entrepreneurs and new adjustments, for example. accounting software and for entrepreneurs, but also for the Tax Administration or the State Budget, which is nowhere to be expected, as far as I understand from the opening argument. Therefore, the audit should say that micro and small entrepreneurs are not subject to the Accounting Act, Art. 20, the micro-enterprise is 124,348, out of 139, 000 entrepreneurs in 2020, so almost 90%, it's 9.1%, mean 1.2%, and large 0.3%, or more specifically, 391. According to this, auditors do not actually have an insight into the business of 98.6% of society. Then why did you put it on? So why on earth did you put that on? I don't get it. So you.../incomprehensible/... so you're accepting that in the law itself you're not already following the law. Furthermore, there is a huge discrepancy between the bankruptcy plan and the pre-demand procedure, and the expert public has a number of objections to the situation of the various creditors. This question is so complex that only we could spend all day on it and the question is, can it be fixed until the second reading? So what is a general finding and a general impression that the law is not well prepared enough and that you are one three years late with the implementation itself. Otherwise, when it comes to this law that you represent today, one must be reminded of one fact. It was this bankruptcy act that was harshly violated when Lex Agrokor was passed five years ago, a law that went against the spirit and practice of insolvent law and that allowed the friends of Prime Minister Plenkovic to get out of the Borg group, to draw money from Agrokor and to get rich. Then one commissioner was appointed by the court, not by the court, but by the government. He came to the head of that company, fallen and along with the interim religious council he named himself, I was actually deciding on the status of the search. That's how the creditors were discriminated against. Some of the companies couldn't get anything out, while some of the companies pulled it all out. It was the truth about lex Agrokor and it's always a good time to talk about it and to warn about the harsh violation of that law and the greatest corruption affair in our country's history lex Agrokor. To sum up, this law seems to be a mere copying without understanding of the European directives and without any preparation of how it will be implemented in practice. Once again, citizens and small entrepreneurs, therefore the most vulnerable in our society, are part of an experiment and are left to the mercy of the crisis, which is obviously valid behind the hills, and because, in the very explanation of this law, it is said that it is brought precisely because of the consequences of the crisis, therefore the bankruptcy that will result as a result of the pandemic of the covid 19. In this way you actually recognize what you have already accepted and written as the Government in the budget, and that is that you have not practically provided this year and not enough to help the economy by covid 19, and that is the truth. So in this way you only confirm that in this year Croatia will prepare for bankruptcy, because obviously the crisis is knocking on the door. European many countries are preparing for the crisis, building certain measures to prevent inflation, to prevent the growth of interest rates, because the interest rates, unfortunately due to inflation, will necessarily grow, which is the economic consequence of simply this premium on the risk of business banks, and that is something that happens everywhere except in Croatia. What does the Croatian Government do at the time? The government obviously prepares citizens and entrepreneurs for bankruptcy, because this trom government only knows and what it can do is calm down the consequences rather than prevent the crisis. Why? Well, it's simple, because they don't have any plans or ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88561	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Peovic will speak on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88562	Thank you. Yes, when we hear the term "Corruption Law", I believe that many people don't have a good feeling, especially if we remember the Law on Pre-departure Deals that shut down workers' rights, suppressed collective agreements written in a way that forgives tycoons and large firms' millions of debts, such as taxi Cameo, Kerumu while the workers stayed on the street and the law declared the Faculty of Law corrupt. So when we hear the bankruptcy law, many people don't have good emotions, that's where they can agree with their previous grades. The bankruptcy law should first say something about this introduction and the justification for why these amendments are being adopted. It is said because of the need for a more effective solution to the problem of insolvency of business entities, the accelerated decline that is interpreted as some kind of necessity particularly caused by what is said here by a covid 19 virus, i.e. SARS COVID-19 virus and disease epidemic. It is also claimed that insolvency is a fact of life, I quote "in a world of dynamic and modern economy", and it is said that about half of entrepreneurs operate less than five years and that around every year almost 200,000 across the EU face insolvencies and as a result, millions of people remain jobless. Let's say what I agree with first. Yes, you have even one survey of the State Statistics Institute, which was accompanied by companies, means companies in 2015, 2019, and how long they survived and how long they remain solvable. So you have information that 51% of the companies have not survived for 5 years. 43% didn't survive 4 years, 37 years, 29 years, 29 years, and 16 not even one year with it even being broken down, so that statistics later. So after 2019, 22% doesn't survive a year. So out of 14000 open companies in 2015, 7,000 of them were closed, shut down in 2019. There should also be taken into account that large companies, a large number of companies are actually not formally shut down, but they have no business activity and this will be particularly interesting today so-called. The zombie companies that are getting more and more on, so that covid crisis and donations that keep these companies alive. Thus, the European Systemic Risk Board warned that there is a real danger throughout Europe from corporate bankruptcy tsunamis. The whole series of companies kept alive during the pandemic, thanks to the meaning of fiscal and monetary stimuli unprecedented in modern history, but these stimuli cannot last forever. In fact, bankruptcy in Europe has been abnormally low in the past and this year, and with the normalisation of life those previously considered insolvent will again be declared unable to continue operations. In the new covid crisis, the global financial system has already entered the level, the record level means the private debt of non-financial enterprises and a large number of these artificially maintained companies in life, which means, this is about the legacy of a previous crisis that has nothing, meaning it changed the functioning of global finances. We can also say that there has been a growth in private debt, i.e. a growth in the debt of non-financial enterprises, on the background of historical low interest rates since the last crisis. But what is specific to this crisis are additional rescue programmes and assistance to the private sector that lead in particular, means those zombie companies that will once the aid is left behind to collapse. Also, if we look at the indicators for the period mentioned, the absolute number of active companies is growing, but the share of companies that fail in the first year is growing now talking to us. But it should be looked back, therefore, at that tone of reasoning of these changes where such dynamics are interpreted as some logical and justifiable feature of the system. But first, it should be said that not all will be equally affected by these processes, not all will bear the same burden of the crisis, according to the Europe periphery axis, where we know that Europe's periphery will be worse off. People on the periphery will bear the burden of this crisis worse, and in the very meaning of the Republic of Croatia, those who live from their work are certainly going to suffer a greater burden. And secondly, it's not about some shock of external shock that's caused the economy to be thrown out of balance, but it's about imbalance, inequality, and unprincipled risk distribution, and it gets the key features of the financialised capitalism that we live in. So it means that some are predicting and why this argument is actually insufficient, means no matter what kind of crisis is going to be in full force and duration, and at this point it is not possible to predict it is certainly not condescending to an external shock which is the economy, which is why the economy has been thrown out of balance. So they are precisely these unfavourable indicators are key features, so this financialised capitalism will determine the content of the crisis both today and 10 years ago. It's not about an external situation. Therefore, the task of this law should be beyond this insufficient explanation in the introduction to protect those most vulnerable in cases of bankruptcy. So as regards the concrete law, it should have been said that it was part of an improvement, and thanks solely to the implementation and already mentioned Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt waiver and bans, and measures to increase the effectiveness of the procedures relating to insolvency restructuring and debt waiver. But it should be said that this directive imposes more involvement on workers, informing workers as well as on the participation of workers in the process of restructuring and bankruptcy of businesses. Thus, Article 10 of that Directive states that adequate participation of workers should be ensured as provided for in Union and national law. We can say it's a principled attitude, it can be implemented in many ways. However, it is important that workers are more involved in the process of restructuring and in cases of bankruptcy. Article 23 of that Directive says that in order to increase support for workers and their representatives, Member States should ensure that workers are given access to relevant and updated information on the availability of early warning tools and should also be able to support workers' representatives in assessing the economic situation of debtors. If we remember all the cases of recent bankruptcy in Croatia, and we have experiences rich in more than two, it means three decades of such situations, then I can only remind you of those situations recently, meaning the Orljava worker waiting for Minister Horvat in Mark's Square, one symbolic moment for him to give them information about bankruptcy, about their rights and the further process of talks with partners, alleged partners who will capitalise on the company so that actually Minister Horvat can speak to the workers, promised that there will be a shift, and after a few months here, as we all see no shifts here. That's why the Uljannikovs of Minister Horvat and called the minister next week because every question was more known to him next week until we should have known nothing more, and the bankruptcy ended as it ended. So it's crucial that the debt collection process, if not earlier, is involved by workers and that they have more opportunities to collect their claims. We remember all Robert Ježić's cases in the DINA and DIOKI cases where all the properties in the company have been charged with devising rights with banks, so these owners prevent workers from collecting from the property if bankruptcy occurs. Therefore, we will propose to amend Article 254(2) and (3) which would allow the volume of funds to be increased From 5 to 15% and workers made it easier to charge. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]] In an individual debate, I'm going to name other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88563	Thank you. There is also Drazen Bosnjakovic to speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Banking Act and the Consumer Banks Act. When we actually only mention the word "demand" it really causes very negative emotions and indeed some kind of knowledge and perceptions about bankruptcy are mainly that this is about the failure of a company, about the failure of entrepreneurs, about the loss of jobs, about the loss of jobs, about the various frauds, even by participants, and even by judges, about what we actually have all the facts that are happening in space and that are actually irrefutable. However, on the other hand, if we look at the practice that has been in Croatia for the last twenty and more years related to bankruptcy, I would say that the biggest problem and the fundamental problem of bankruptcy is its late opening. Because, as a rule, bankruptcy is opened so far when there is no more property in a commercial society, when debts are so crowded that what's left of the property can't really cover all these debts. So if we look at bankruptcy as an instrument of business policy he even offers certain actual potentials, a certain solution that might be in difficulty, which could actually be very helpful only on condition that this bankruptcy is open in time. That's one example we've got, the big firm Pevec. This was actually about a bankruptcy of a company where the property was still larger than the claims that were actually in relation to the company. And today we see that this company that went through bankruptcy, it came out of bankruptcy, and today it actually works very correctly and well. All of this is actually a lot of possibilities, and it's a lot at the end on the field of it and it's made about various machinations and speculations. Some have been able to behave in a way to extract property from a company, move to several others where the founders were some of the parent and on that side actually came, in bankruptcy pushed something that was empty, something that had no property so the bankruptcy was just a front for such a thing. And so it would be good, in fact, if they were equipped with both PUNSCOK and BREAK and all those bodies to actually sanction such behaviors. We here as a society are actually building a normative framework and this law on bankruptcy is from 2015 and I would say that the amendments to this law are now going in the right direction and that these changes provide one normative framework for bankruptcy to be with us and that those objectives are met, which is when society or entrepreneur is in some kind of problem, that the instruments that bankruptcy offers, let us not forget there are important instruments. So if a bankruptcy procedure is initiated, then the company is able to terminate contracts that are harmful and the litigation of litigation occurs, there is an interruption of the executive proceedings. These are all actually instruments that give the entrepreneur the air to come. I'd compare it like you're climbing some kind of point, so you're actually out of air. And then you stop around and you come around again and you go back to the same route that you went if the bankruptcys got that way. If I go in a way to get out of society whatever I can and I'm going to spread it to other societies, and then they're all getting hurt -- the believers get hurt, the workers get killed, and none of them get anything out of it, and there's really a need to strengthen the state's bodies, like UPSECK, and all the other things that need to be absolutely sanctioned, and these things need to get into this. The amendments to this law which I must especially stress I think is good, there is one important point and these are the bankruptcy managers. The bankruptcy managers are really the ones who are the center of the bankruptcy process, they're operational. They actually watch everything that goes on and on. And in this bankruptcy law, we see that it insists on their expertise, because I think that this is a good solution that requires in principle that they be prepared for this exam by the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and on the other hand, when they pass that test the story is not the end, but in fact another year how many laws they predict they will undergo training under a special programme and only after that they actually come into a specific position that a certain bankruptcy procedure leads to. A highly qualified bankruptcy manager is introduced instead of this list A and B. It's the one who's been through a little bit so I can say more games in the legs as to a certain internship and as to the specific complexity of the procedures in which he performed. That's definitely good, and that's what we have to insist on. The law does not say and does not have to write or write, but education should also work with judges, simply and with judges should be kept working, their experience should be shared. We now have amendments and the Consumer Banks Act. There we actually had a simple consumer bankruptcy where, for example, in the appeal procedure, we only had two county courts in the Republic of Croatia. It's Osijek and Rijeka. The amendments to the Law on Courts are now abolished and special specializations are needed in all the county courts in the Republic of Croatia to extend those experiences which the two courts have concentrated. It is also very important to monitor the work and the very bankruptcy manager who, even under the current provisions, is a bankruptcy judge, but this is a good thing that the Ministry of Justice will actually be more involved in this and will do one by saying supervision in a slightly different way than a bankruptcy judge does. It is very good to continue this digitalisation process, the digitalisation process means in the form of electronic communication of courts and parties. In commercial courts, we already have not only electronic communication among the parties, but we also have those discussions at a distance. So that's something you should also see where you can see here, where you can here, where you can take a step forward. What I was saying at the beginning and what I think is fundamental, in fact, the fundamental reason for bad bankruptcy in Croatia is the late time actually to open bankruptcy, so I like these provisions unlike some colleagues related to early warning of debtors. It means that someone who owes you a notice wait for me we have a record you didn't pay for it, you didn't pay for it you're gonna get in trouble. It must be visible even I think of some other of these participants in order to actually recognize the risks of dealing with such a debtor. Also the duties of the directors mentioned here in the law, I think they are very good at such situations because the director has to take care in fact that the company can meet its obligations, that it must not favour some believers, that it must not mean entering some arrangements that leads to the complete breakdown of the company. And what I'd also like you to do until the second reading to take a look at this and look at these are the provisions of a distinct believer. The logical right is, in fact, the right which is generally and entered when it comes to real estate in some public records, which means I as a distinct believer have the right to settle down from some real estate. And it's always been so far as to say it's always been a sacred right, now I see actually one provision here that says it's possible in the bankruptcy plan, so there's no reasonable right to explain that such a believer should be properly calmed down. That's a little vague, that's a little bit clear and see what, what to do with it. So it's also the same thing that bankruptcy is complicated and long-term because bankruptcy produces ten more litigation procedures, and you actually have to when someone's challenging some demand and all that. Here you have in Article 24. says that if there is an executive document for demand, because it can be or it can be a final judgment, it can be some sort of soloized document, it is said if someone objects it will refer him to a lawsuit to prove the foundation of it. Think about actually moving it. What's rightfully ruled is decided and now someone else to challenge it, I don't think that might be right. Think about it. As a club, we will support this law in the first reading and I believe it will be even better in the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88565	Thank you. Green-left bloc representatives' club will be represented by Mrs Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88566	Thank you. So here I'm actually going to start with one of the problems that very often leads our citizens to the very conditions of actually meeting the conditions for bankruptcy, which is a matter of resolving over-indebtedness before such conditions occur and what this country has actually done for citizens who are in such a kind of debt and what protection mechanisms it has given them. Let us remember that by the end of 2021 it was time for the Ministry of Finance and the CNB to prepare through a working group of laws that would regulate agencies that buy out claims from our citizens and we were talking about the fact that these agencies were really unregulated here countless times. The fact therefore that even redeemers of debt act as ordinary D.O.O. without any regulation, without the need, for example, for their core capital to be greater than 20 000 kunas as is the case in ordinary d.o.o. etc. On Friday, we submitted the amendment here to the Consumer Protection Act, which would once and for all regulate this issue in a way that sells consumer debt, consumer debt, so those who are domains of the Consumer Protection Act cannot be possible without the express consent of the debtors and that this is one of the methods of protecting the weaker parties in consumer contracts, and we stressed that such a clause of consent cannot be an integral part of the basic contract but that it can be concluded at the earliest, at the earliest 60 days before such a claim is sold. We wanted to prevent again that sellers condition the sale or placement, for example, of a financial product that, in a way that you agree in advance, that your debt can be sold to the agency or to anyone else for payment of the claim. In 2020, the Ombudsman's report stated that, therefore, in 2020, the number of requests from citizens concerning the transfer of claims and the treatment of the collection agencies which were largely troubled by the preliminary order outside the court order carried out by the employer through FIN, contests the amount of debt and points to the creditor's frequent call for payment, rejection of the debtor's proposals in terms of and manner of further payment of the credit, the failure of a new believer to enter the legal position of his predecessor or consignor, and doubts of the implementation of the double payment. So, doubts about carrying out double charge and examples of such cases get all of our institutions from the attorney general himself to us who are here in the assembly, but also the CNB and others, so everyone realized that there was a double debt issue. However, nothing has been done here. So when we look at and just this report by the attorney general, it says that despite the extremely large number of people who have been blocked and who, therefore, have not been able to settle their debts either in 2020, but even in the years preceding this, they have not actually benefited from the possibilities of this law itself or from simple bankruptcy, nor from regular proceedings, and it has simply become evident this year that this is not an adequate mechanism for resolving the insolvency of citizens. For many years, the Ombudsman has also asked this government through its reports to help resolve the insolvency of natural persons or citizens of consumers include those measures that could detect the reasons for over-indebtedness, and that, compared to the reasons for over-indebtedness, when these reasons come from, for example, loss of work, today pandemics, etc., there are some additional measures that will actually allow such, such citizens to exit quickly from that vicious circle of debt. So I want to repeat here that every citizen is granted the right to a standard of living that suits him and his family including adequate nutrition, clothing and housing, as well as the right to continuous improvement of living conditions. So we are obliged as a state to take all measures, all measures that therefore these basic living needs so housing, nutrition, clothing, etc. They are not threatened, and today they are to all those who are truly unable to repay their debts in order not to be threatened. One part of it has been resolved by a protected account or by not being able to execute on that part of the protected funds, especially those coming from social benefits, and that's good, and yet that still does not prevent people from coming out of the circle of debt because it is such that, especially through the sale of these debts and the uninterrupted growth thus through interest, because we don't have a limit to it, people come into a position that these debts can't be paid back at all, so that with 15, 20, 30,000 kuna they come to a debt of 200, 300,000 that will never be able to repay them at all. So we still have the domination of long-term blockades, and we still have the domination that there are most of the blocked ones with debts of up to 10,000 kuna. So when someone's talking about moral gambling that people are raising loans to BMWs so they can't get them back, look at the statistics of the most people it's all about directing. So, I also want to point out something here about the very problem of the bankruptcy of the company, but in the part that relates to all the previous actions, and I want here to highlight the case of Sljeme d.d. and 62 Sljemen workers who filed criminal charges against Milan Bandic, Davorin Lovrić and others in 2017 and because they were in the period since 2001. – 2007 using their position and powers as opposed to the interests of the company of workers and minority shareholders with the aim of, of course, obtaining the property benefit of Sljeme d.d. Taking advantage of his position. How did they do it, how did they do it? So they delayed the bankruptcy. So they stopped the bankruptcy. And during that period of bankruptcy prevention, they alienated the company's assets by contracts for which it was the duty of this state and these authorities, and in particular the DORH to determine that they were a wasteful, extremely valuable asset including huge land, equipment and machines of Sljemen where you still have today workers who witnessed that trucks were being driven by total equipment and industrial plants to someone, it is not known who they were, in order to reduce the natural value and that workers would not be able to collect their claims, and these same workers were small shareholders. And how did they become small shareholders? So they paid off those shares. So they were taken away from the value of the shares and were taken away from them the ability to collect claims from the base, from the basis of the labor claims, because they had robbed Sljema, because they had left him with nothing. And that's what we don't do with this law, and we haven't laid down in other regulations of the mechanisms that we prevent, how effectively we prevent economic crime that leads to the alienation of assets of fake insolvency, it was in the case of the Sljemen case, that they faked insolvency. How we prevent fake contracts from alienating property like it was in the Kamenski case by showing completely false, falsified claims from a company that breeds donkeys to remember, yes, they owed Kamensko. So, as we prevent it, what are the mechanisms, and then really in the bankruptcy process, there would be enough property and that the company would really be restructured and restructured, or that workers' claims would be minimally charged. And the fact that USKOK rejected this criminal application, the fact that they were not even on their own, and they could go to determine the integrity of those contracts that were worthless from the plane and thus led to all these workers' claims being obsolete today, that these people were left without everything, that half of the Sesvets whose entire families worked in Sljem had not only no income and no work but also the only property they had. So that and that we haven't solved these issues of persecution of such crimes we don't actually We did not allow insolvency procedures to be more effective in the end. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88567	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88568	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a country where we have 3 million 880 thousand and there is something small, so let's do 3 million 880 thousand inhabitants. We are not a part of any serious work in Europe and America, and often when we discuss laws, we discuss laws as if we are about one serious country with some 40-50 million inhabitants. What exactly am I trying to say? The bankruptcy that's going on happens around here somewhere. The bankruptcy that's been going on, we know about them. We know the bankruptcy managers, and we know how this works, and in the context of that, I think we should discuss these laws. I once had a friend who had and still had another relatively small architectural desk who had another three people employed by him and had the opportunity to get one big job for a big company that, in the meantime, failed behind it. And I'm asking him, so great, so you're gonna get a great job, you're gonna get paid next year for two, a secure job, I'm sure it's all together, so that's great. He says I'm not taking that job. I say why you won't. He says because I can't afford him to fail because if he fails, I'll ignore all my clients. I live from small clients, from small businesses, but who will always come and be there. And one day, if he fails, I won't be able to charge at all, or anything, and with his ruin, I'll be ruined, and everything I've done so far. And I and this bankruptcy law look at that context and think, I always remember what he told me. To make a step, we have to do a few things. The first thing is to do decent one legal framework. As good as these guys are, or we can't evaluate them right now, we have to put them in life, so we're going to evaluate them. But what she can estimate is that we're faster and more pro-pulsive. This crown has taught us something, and regardless of everything together and whatever I would like to return to normal life tomorrow, it has taught us something, that there is the possibility of an e-book, that there is the possibility of an e-script, that there is the possibility that certain discussions should take place at a distance and that what we learned in this crown should be used in everyday life and on a daily occasion that there is really such a possibility that we don't have to do it all physically one-on-one, that it all works so well and that it's possible and so we should use these experiences in the law and beyond. But what everything is based on and what we have to count on are people. In this case, that's what I was saying when I was discussing on behalf of the club, and I'm going to say that both now little and in an individual debate, are bankruptcy managers. I really ask that until the second reading, because it's possible to make it, the ministry of the barata with that data, that we see about how many, what is the number of bankruptcy managers we have, which will be now, we have two groups, in the first group, or how many of these bankruptcy managers will be in the second group. And what's important, and the Ministry of Justice normally handles these data, and that's how education works. I have to admit that I always have a special empathy for people who work in the state administration, I've been doing it for years, whenever someone works at the state administration is always kind of imagining it with those green gloves from here to here that he's locked up with a bunch of files around him and that all his life from the beginning to the end of the working life is still the press or not the press or the issue of some kind of solution. If that's what we're thinking, we're not gonna do anything smart. But I think they're people, and that's why it's an emphasis on bankruptcy managers who need to be educated. You have that provision that if every two years. from the date of entry, no evidence shall be provided of the professional training carried out that there is an opportunity to delete it from the list of bankruptcy managers. I think those lists must be real and they are already available, but that those who have been deleted to know why they have been deleted you know in a country like Croatia when a bankruptcy manager is deleted from the list in Poreč which I now think is the same moment that we find out in Našice and I think it is extremely important and only so we, apart from the laws that we bring here and then we say that we have passed a number of laws we can make a certain step in the application of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88569	Thank you very much. Wait, wait, wait. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88570	My colleague Mrak-Taritash, here's a warning. In 86, which actually changes, it is a supplement to Article 308 of the original law, which goes towards the fact that according to the directive of the formal category of creditors who are particularly vulnerable to protection, so small suppliers are mentioned in the saying, but in the eu directive it is said that these groups that need to be protected are small suppliers and workers, so it would warn the ministry of this failure. So it's not clear why it's been dropped here, why is it that if they're said in that eu directive they're in art. 44. like these protected groups as particularly vulnerable creditors listed and small suppliers and workers why then in our law small suppliers, here I refer to what you mentioned are let's say in a word, but here are the workers who fell out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88571	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88572	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So I'm actually seeing this replica as another topic that needs to be considered by the ministry. As explained in this legislative proposal, and these amendments are complemented by both, the basis for why this was going on was in line with EU directives. So, at EU level, they have been recognised, these processes are much more detailed than they are in Croatia, talking about a million jobs that are lost annually at the expense of certain companies that go bankrupt. So people are kind of more pro-pulsory and they're acceptable to some options and variants. What's important is that bankruptcy starts on time because what's bad experience with us is that those who were owners were pulled out of the company all they could get out and there was nothing left in the end, but I kind of think that there's always the interest of both employers and workers in this case when it comes to bankruptcy. The ones that I'm running away from lose. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88573	Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88574	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, I think you've raised a very good question about the bankruptcy managers. We see and it would be good until the second reading really if we got a little bit more quality data because we see that here are 250 bankruptcy managers over a period of 17 years, they've been paid 6.8 million kuna gross and, billions of kuna gross and that's not small money, that's a very lucrative profession. I personally do not see any reason why these two professions are more suitable than when you have complex bankruptcys such as Industrial Construction. Well, I don't know the shipyards, etc., maybe this engineering profession would be more acceptable, so here's what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88575	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88576	Thank you very much, colleague Vukemilovic. So, I think you should, that it's always much better to open than to close. I'm, I'm often comparing it to what you know by that train that goes on coal, I sometimes get the feeling that those who are ahead are trying to make that train easier to go faster, and those who are back are still making a burden. What exactly am I trying to say? I think it's much better to open up to more profession team more that we have different high schools and universities today where certain skills are obtained from management, which are knowledge from some kind of management or whatever, and I think it's much better to open it up. Here, when it comes to economic and legal expertise, I think it's closed down in that 10 years ago when it wasn't possible for us all together. Therefore, we really need to take care of it and open it up, but what's important is education, education is important, and so on. I'm sure it won't be long and we'll have plenty of time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the chamber of bankruptcy managers. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88577	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs Vesna Vuciilovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88578	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues when we unite the debate then we often focus very often on that first point that is very important in terms of bankruptcy, but we have three more points that somehow in this debate on behalf of clubs we don't really get to touch too much, so I'm going to say something about these three points in an individual debate. What about consumer bankruptcy itself? He didn't basically come to life. We can only hope that these changes and that the deadlines will somehow help that institute to live because we know many celebrities in the world and in some of us were in such situations when they ended up in bankruptcy, and it doesn't necessarily mean something bad, although it's stressful, but obviously it hasn't come to life with us and the question is whether to step up some education, whether to bring people closer to it, how do you have more than 200,000 people who are done and who are in trouble, and on the other hand, this institute is not being used, maybe people don't even know about it, here I wouldn't even rule it out. But I'd still touch the last two points here, two proposals are about the court register and the Company Act. This is in principle a little more harmonisation with the European directives and those requirements that the European Commission sets in this segment are not illogical and should be welcomed warmly. The use of digital tools, procedures aimed at simpler, faster weather, cost-effective...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88579	Mrs. Vucilović, we have, we have 2 after, we don't have 4 united, but 2nd and 2nd.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88580	Okay, never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88581	You can, you can. As you wish, go ahead. [[Then you don't have to talk later.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88582	Thank you, thank you, then I don't want this part. I came a little later this morning. I'm the one from Slavonia. It's arrived, but here it is. [[And they're the same people from the government.]] In principle, here's an apology, but while I'm here. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] So the fact is that these are things that are good, but they should still be taken with some amount of caution because we simplify, speed up, be more competitive because we certainly appreciate the goal, but we also have to make sure that in Croatia we have 40,000 companies that do not have any employees and that we mainly call them company ficus or phantom companies and they mostly do business, each other is doing negative business and doing loss, and they are in a pretty bad voice. Although this is not a specific feature of Croatia and although it is not characteristic only in other countries, it is also like some kind of project companies are being founded, but in us they are very interesting because very often there is also something left behind that is not good, which is tax debt. So let's say in Primorje-Goran County 4 companies are in debt 210 million taxes and it's really not small money and the question is how is it that certain things are not registered and established by these companies, we know that we can still have companies and with some initial capital of 10 kuna, but on the other hand, if some other mechanisms are not in operation and are not doing their job properly, obviously not because companies can remain in debt of 210 million kuna and that no one in tax notices, that you have a transport company that has no registered vehicle, no truck, no truck, no employee. This must really be for everyone, every normal one should be weird, obviously it wasn't weird to anyone, and here I am just going to finally say that Estonia has done a lot in the field of digitisation to simplify all this together, but in the end, between 2008 and 2017, more than a thousand billion euros have been washed up, and that's been followed up in all the media, and that simplification should still be done with a measure. Here it is, I went a little bit to other points of the agenda, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88583	Thank you very much. You've got two replicas, ma'am. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88584	Well, I didn't mean to pick up, but you mentioned the company's ficus, so I was talking about it. So the company's ficus or they call them zombie companies, here I know other this name is a really huge problem and I don't think it pays enough attention either in this explanation at the very introduction of this law. Why? Because they are not only a phenomenon to say so to this global financialised capitalism that is not specific to us in relation to the world, but it is really in the covid crisis of very many of these public givings and that is something we have, we have a situation that is really precedentd in history that so much means public donations are given to companies and is really predicted, here is the European Systemic Risks Committee warns that it could really come to the tsunamis of this, these corporate bankruptcys, yes, so I was interested when you said the company's ficus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88585	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88586	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. It's a fact that we had this phase of helicopter money, right, I mean it's one, one syntagma that was created, it wasn't thought at that time that something like that would ever really happen, but there's been a helicopter money that really extended life to companies that might have failed, gone bankrupt, into liquidation, and we'll never know at this point. But when we talk about these ficus companies, zombie companies, it doesn't necessarily have to be something bad. Here in construction is often established for a particular project so as not to disrupt core business, then a project company is established. Unfortunately, we see from this data there is yet another dimension because we see that even tax taxes are not paid and they are obviously money laundering companies and the tax company would still have to investigate it a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88587	And Mrs. McNally. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88588	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, the three of us are discussing this law, but I was encouraged by the part where you mentioned digitization and mentioned Estonia and everything else. A non-fatal Croatian prime minister who wanted to be Croatian Prime Minister, a politician, when he should have listed 5 topics in one, and then, among other things, cited digitisation or forgot it or forgot it, but what I said in the debate is now I want to refer once again. From this crown we have actually learned something, and we have learned that it can be important to digitize, the importance of available data, and when it comes to bankruptcy, then something that we really need to take care of is the speed that if something goes and if something is found then we do not philosophy on it for the next two or three years until everything goes where it needs to go, we need not go but on that speed and that time frame that is even with the consumer and through this amendment of the law and is reduced because that time frame is extremely significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88589	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dark-Taritash, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88590	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you are absolutely right because in business the timing is very important and at what time at all open the bankruptcy and how long to run it. Unfortunately, with us, it gets complicated in a way that opens up a whole series of other procedures, and then it's been going on for years. We see some kind of bankruptcy that has really been going on for years, but we also have to open up the question of what is the interest of bankruptcy managers to quickly close some bankruptcy proceedings. We can't rule out these malfeasances and cases that I've also talked about on this and in the debate on behalf of the club when the bankruptcy managers, along with the judges, have stalled everything because it was simply appropriate for them to get as many legal and illegal as possible incomes for themselves and all involved in these illegal ventures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88591	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. And Mrs. McNally. Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88592	Here's a telegraph for the end, meaning 4 concrete proposals related to these changes and additions, and to avoid what many here have said that so simply I say that workers do, and we have cited a lot of examples. I'm just going to say that the Kamensky workers only charged 15% of their claims, so that's the extent we're talking about, yes, and their claims are hard to earn. Therefore, we would suggest such a way to really protect the worker and to collect the property if the resulting bankruptcy, which would allow the change of art. Paragraphs 2 and 3. where the scope of the funds that are initially in the form of bankruptcy should be increased as defined by those costs of cashing out on the subject of a distinction law where 5% of the expenditure is put into effect to at least 15% of the expenditure to raise that amount by applying to all open bankruptcies not only to the newly opened day of the amendment. So the amendment proposal would be the cost of cashing out separate-law items at a rate of 15% of the market if the actual costs of cashing were to be significantly higher will be determined at a real level as it already goes. Art. The 254th item is 3 and it's referenced to 2 but well that would be one thing. The second thing is certainly good that Article 39, which amends Article 66, under the name of a claim which is not affected by the upcoming procedure, means that Article 5, which states the pre-accession procedure, does not affect the individual and collective rights of workers arising from the domestic labour law and labour law of the EU such as the right to collective bargaining of industrial action and the second right of notification and counselling, is certainly a good thing to say that workers have the right to strike whether we take into account the situation in which the real strikes are already criminalised by the Constitutional Court, starting with a strike in Croatia Airlines there somewhere in 2018, if I remember well and until the SDF Županje strike which they have criminalised, etc., this is good that the sentence is stated. So workers have every right to strike especially if they are in a subordinate position in the bankruptcy situation, but when they strike at those moments of company bankruptcy they almost strike against themselves and then they find themselves in a situation even though they have not brought the firm into bankruptcy they are in a situation of co-responsibility. It is therefore important to strengthen this so that they can collect their own funds. As for the notification of workers, I have already mentioned the meaning and I will not repeat the situation with the Nuts, but it is good to say that there are widespread rights but still the question of how it will be implemented. There are also certain things about the need to inform workers that are not well defined or that are not exactly defined what certain provisions mean. For example, the 66th article is added paragraph 6 where payment restructuring is said to lead to changes in the organisation of work or contract in working with workers and measures are subject to the approval of workers, the proposal means the working council, the council of workers, because it is somewhere in line with the Labour Act because it is not clear which workers will approve these measures. And four means what I mentioned in that replica if already in Article 44. The European Directive states that when those categories of creditors that stand and in our Article 308 of the current law are formed, then if you go to change that 308 article so that those categories of creditors who have been particularly vulnerable have been protected and given priority, and if the EU directive speaks like workers or small suppliers that these groups are protected groups, then there is no reason why you here now say, when you set up a group of courts will take special care to protect vulnerable creditors like small suppliers. Then why not say small suppliers and workers if I literally mean so in the EU directive. Tens of thousands of workers are unemployed, I mean when I talk about these subordinate groups, and I guess every one of them in Croatia is the first association of the eater who has lost his paid salary from the mentioned Kamenski, Diokia now Orljava where we have a similar situation, so it would be very good to say the words and the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88593	Thank you very much, Mrs. Peovic, if there was a telegraph telegram it would cost a lot at the end. In that name I conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. and now we move on, as we have decided this morning, to a united debate on the following two points are: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z.E. No 233 and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No 234 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of this House. When discussing these items of the agenda, it shall apply as I said before the provisions relating to first reading of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Mr. Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration wishes to have an introduction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88664	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So there are 2 laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Court Register. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing these 2 laws first and foremost implements the directive on the use of digital tools and procedures in company law. This implementation of the European Directive enables the establishment of all types of companies and branches by electronic means. Electronic delivery of all data and documents to the court register of the so-called Until now, the founders have been able to access the remote legal representative and the power of attorneys on their own to access the remote founding system. In order to ensure the protection of all persons who communicate with companies or branches and in order to prevent fraud or abuse, it is important that the competent authorities can verify whether the person appointed to the Director can carry out the duties of the Director. To this end, the Ministry of Justice and Administration will establish and keep records of persons who cannot be members of the administration. The introduction of such a record in one place will bring together information on persons who cannot be members of the company’s administration and will allow for a quick and simple verification of those data. On the basis of this record, a system of exchanges of data on disqualified directors with the Member States of the European Economic Area will also be established. For the obligations of the trading companies to be shared, the solidarity of all companies participating in the division without restriction is prescribed. In this way, it wants to ensure the protection of the right of creditors to collect their claims when it comes to the division of companies with establishment. In addition, these changes allow the payment of the underlying capital in a public deposit, which simplifies the procedure, since it will no longer be necessary to supply the credit institution's confirmation of the payment of the underlying capital before entering the court register. The adoption of these legal proposals will further digitise and simplify the procedure for the establishment of companies and registrations in the court register. It is also important to reduce and abolish fees for registration cases, and all on the trail of digitisation under the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register. Provisions and regulations on tariffs for court fees are also amended. We withdraw the fees for entries in the court register, request and registration and change the address of the electronic mail of the registration entity, application for the registration of changes in the data of the business address of the personal data of the president and members of the supervisory boards, data on subsequent deposits and payments of the entities of the registration, and 50% less registration fees and enrolments in the procedure of establishment until registration at a distance. This is what we consider to be a decommissioning and a certain further incentive for the work of companies. Here's the short one in these two laws. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88665	You have a few replicas. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88666	Thank you, Chairman. As with any law or proposal, the most common problem is not what the law says, but what the law does not or does not explain. Among other things, I refer here to the financial effects of planned procedures and measures. Somewhere you have listed information that you have not now specifically pointed out that some 10 million kunas need to be spent to upgrade the information system. From what you've written in the reasoning of the law, it turns out that a contract with a certain artist has already been concluded. I'm interested in which performer is involved, on which basis you have found that 10 million kunas are needed and who actually took part in the selection of who will work on the upgrade of IT solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88667	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88668	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I didn't mention that in the opening statement. Funds for the implementation of this law, i.e. It is about building up the system, so the e-list provides for funds for self-service to upgrade the e-Court Register according to the contract is 10 million kuna 647 000, and 85% is co-financed by the EU, 15% are national funds. As for who received the contract and who signed it, I did not sign it, nor did I see it, nor did I approve it. So, I don't know what would be the issue here, and where did you get the information now that there's something indisputable about the contract that the ministry is signing. So we have annual contracts that are transparent, run in a public procurement system and there's nothing controversial about it. ... So should the law say who got the contract? [[You can't hear it.]] What's wrong with you? I don't have a comment like that at all, no. [[Let's have a friendly conversation like that.]] I think so. [[You're really going on?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88669	Mrs. Oreshkovic, you have a warning. Maybe it's my first warning that has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that it's being abused. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88670	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. I would refer to the provision of Article 29 of this Proposal for a Law on the Court Register which states that the Register Court will, within 90 days of the entry into force of this Act, carry out the harmonisation of the address details of the registration entity from the court register with addresses from the register of spatial units of the State Geodesy Administration. Therefore, in order to do so, there must be certain programmes, there must be certain tools. It's the first time, so you didn't have it in your former bill. It is in fact that there is a harmonisation at a level not only horizontally, so everyone has their own data and that these data can be available to each other as absolutely acceptable. I'm just having a little trouble with that 90-day deadline. This 90-day deadline is possible if all those preconditions that should have been within the meaning of the programme and in terms of the tools are already completed, so I wonder if these preconditions have been made and whether a 90-day deadline is enough for us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88671	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88672	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It shall have this paragraph 2 of Article 29 which states that the coordination referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be carried out only for those addresses for which their identity will be established, with the Registrar’s Court of Justice also using the address details of the Register of Business Units of the State Department of Statistics, so that it is assessed within the Ministry of Justice and Administration that this 90-day period is sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88673	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88674	Here's a thank you. I'm actually going to repeat my colleague's question because we didn't get an answer. So who was selected in this project to improve information solutions? What company? You know, if you don't know, maybe you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88675	Well, Your Honor, Madam Representative, if I knew...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88676	I must give you my word, Mr. Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Then the answer once again applies to you two together when you ask the same question. Well, if I were to know here in the conference room who gets a contract on public procurement, then that should be something suspicious to all of you sitting here. Dear Madam MPs, so State Secretary, Minister and State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice are neither participating, nor implementing, just controlling public procurement. I have no idea who got the contract to upgrade this system. There are two contracts. The funding is 85% from EU funds, 15% from our budget. It would be crazy if I were to recite to you companies that are getting contracts with the Justice Department or any state body. So we've been talking all day about preventing corruption, everything and everything. You're asking me to quote companies that report to the public. I have no idea, and I don't want to know that at all. I hope everything is transparent, clear, legal and in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. That's the simplest answer. I don't know what you're alluding to, I have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88678	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88679	The Court Register Act allows applications to be carried out remotely and signed on excerpts that they are in electronic form. As a rule, that's progress. It is said that communication is now being given through the system of the court register and the START system along with the public notary, but I am interested in how many tariffs there will be for this service in the public notary. So how is that even going to be determined?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88680	.../The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88681	Thank you very much. Your Honor. MPs, tariffs will be set by a rule to be passed by the Minister of Justice, so there will be no less in any case. As we went to this side to discharging the system, abolishing the court fees, less costs by, than 50%, for those who use this digital route, so also for public notebooks, the tariffs will be reduced. We've done it so far on many occasions. If you followed up on the executive procedures, that's how it's gonna go for this. So here is the incentive to be as much of this online establishment as possible, and also that costs for those who set up companies are as low as possible, and thus public record costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88682	You don't have any more replicas. Is there anything they want to say to the representatives of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate now, and it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Vucilovic from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club which will now have the opportunity to talk about the laws that she started talking about before, please. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88683	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little bit on the way, so I'm on my way, so I'm gonna get on with this. These are laws that seem quite dry, but we who have worked in the real sector are not quite so dry to us, but they are very important to us. When you work at a company, especially in sales, I've worked in sales for many years, then you meet with different ways in which people try to avoid what's called payment obligations. And then, with us, I started in that direction, so I'm going to continue to mean in that previous iteration. This simplification is always good, but you should always have a measure because we currently mean we have this situation that basic capital can be for simple d.o.o. 10 kuna, and in principle what I think is very good in this proposal, and I will point out this is the register of persons who cannot be members of the administration because according to the directive, the records of persons who, according to the Commercial Society Act, cannot be members of the administration in order to just prevent and potential abuses and fraud where someone who creates a simple d.o.o. with 10 kuna, then goes simply into liquidation, in bankruptcy because he has debts over 200-00,000 kuna, perhaps for a small catering facility that has no property or property and has no credentials from where to charge, then creates another one, and so that when some perpetum of the mobile is established by the company, he remains in debt, and in some way has a position to use the services of these companies and suppliers can't ignore them, but somehow seek a way to collect, and yet to remain in this business relationship that I's been very real with him. And believe me, it's for, for companies, a big problem. What is very good is what this means is that a joint liability is prescribed, or a solidarity debt where this protection of the right of the believer to collect his claims when it means one company is divided into several companies, one of which may be profitable, the other cannot be charged. Because we can't forget that we've done a lot of damage to very small companies through, say, pre-fashion deals that have been going on to save jobs, but in the end it's just these small companies that have put out a lot of jobs because you take for example. one craftsman or a small company d.o.o. which deals with geodetic extremities, geodetic affairs, does e.g. for some big cement store or for some quarry that went into pre-determination and then got the basis of the deal that he had to, watch out he had delivered all of it, paid the VAT, it went into his profit and loss account, he paid the profit tax, and then he didn't charge any of it, and now this big company is going into bankruptcy and on the basis of some sort of deal he has to forgive 30, and maybe even more percent of his claim, and then he's still charging it in some months of wars through the next 3-4 or 5 years. Believe me, I know one who used to charge his debt so that he had five kunas and 60 lips per month. That man worked with loss. Fortunately, he could've compensated it through some other jobs, but not many. And here we are in that first version of those pre-banking laws, we really have cut off just the small companies that are based on it, many have fallen into trouble, not to say that through the lex Agrokor we have again cut off small shareholders. And also in Baranja, you have a lot of those who had shares of Belje, who had no shares. And then take care of all of this that there's always some way that it's easier to start a company anyway, but still not to have hyperinflation and that we have so many companies that we just don't know each other, that people in the real sector don't know who they're working for anymore, and because of this, it means that we have a solid debt and that we know who can't be a member of the administration because that's what matters when we still have some kind of security and we can't forget about the believers and their claims because when I was back in the '90s back in America, then there was a very big problem of default. I asked there, I was on a study trip, so I asked the companies how they do it when someone doesn't pay their dues, so he says he can't open a new company until he's done it, he doesn't. So it can be solved and it should always be taken care of when we make these changes. I'm going to repeat again, so these company ficus or phantom companies, the zombie companies as said by fellow Peović who are not our specifics in some countries as much as 70% of such companies because they are established for individual projects so as not to endanger what basic business in construction are really very, very common. But right now, they're in a very bad position because of these losses that have been measured by billions. If you look at the data losses of one year were two, two years three billion kunas, and that's something, even if you start with 10 kuna or 20,000 kunas of fixed capital, if you stay in debt, if you don't pay taxes mean you have a tax debt, then you really have to ask yourself what we're doing with the IRS, and maybe that increased tax supervision might be able to solve some things because according to CNB data, right now, companies without employees in the category of those who can hardly repay credit, and then, in some way, through a little stronger tax control, you have to make sure that we don't come back to this situation that we have a tax debt in the Primorian County of four companies, so it's not 15, 200, 300 that's not four companies that have managed to build up 210 million kunas of tax debt. So that simplifying is something that digitization is something to greet, but by installing some mechanisms and leading to this cooperation that is not the Ministry of Justice now is an island for itself, but that, at the same time, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS, and that part follows it all together and that we all somehow come to a solution that will be satisfactory, and not that we now catch people who get the circumstances we have to work out, have even their own union. I was really surprised today when I read that there was a union of our migrants and I had to read what it was about, so it's people who work a month, two outside and come to Croatia, our citizens, and now they're still looking at whether they paid their taxes, they're not, and here the Italians are starting our companies to owe us 210 million taxes and turkey dots don't apply to anyone. So maybe we should focus a little bit more, though it's not your ministry, but inter-resorship cooperation a little bit if you've made it a little bit simpler or what our people would say to ease those conditions, and then the IRS would have to tighten a little bit of things up that it's not just about income tax and tax on consumption, but also that we have a focus on profit tax as one of the chargers of the state budget because ultimately all of these taxpayers pay. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88684	Mrs. Vesna Nadj will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88685	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have two of these draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register and trade societies that actually comply with Directive 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 and amending Directive 2017/1122 in the need of the use of digital tools and procedures in society law. Well, the fact is, it's a 2019 directive, so we could've coordinated it before. As explained in the proposal for a law proposal, it is proposed to pay attention, facilitate the establishment of a branch of companies, enable all necessary to register companies and to establish and register branches to be carried out remotely in order to improve the launch and conduct of the business that must be adapted to the current time and new communication opportunities, while maintaining legal certainty and high accuracy and reliability of the court register. In order to prevent any kind of abuse of competent authorities, the possibility of verifying whether the person appointed to the Director is prohibited from performing the duties of the Director shall be ensured. In this regard, a register is established on disqualified directors with the countries of the European Economic Area at the Ministry of Justice, which we certainly support and welcome. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot be satisfied with the degree of digitisation of the procedures relating to the establishment and registration of subsidiaries of companies in relation to the developed EU countries in this area. The fact that we are shyly accepting digitisation in all areas regardless of what we have established also the Central State Office for the Development of a Digitalised Society and the Independent Sector for the Digitalisation of the Justice of the Public Administration within the Ministry of Justice and Administration and despite many projects in the field of digitalisation of public administration and justice financed from eu funds. The European Commission's report of 2020 in the Digital Public Services chapter shows that Croatia is not at the European summit when it comes to the use of eu services. According to the indicator relating to the supply and demand of digital public services and the openness of data, the most successful are the countries of Estonia, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, and at the bottom we are together with Romania, Greece, Slovakia, Hungary. For this reason, other countries of the type of Estonia leave us far behind in this area, so we lose part of the investment cake that comes with digitization and the creation of companies and their branches on the Internet. Although it is good that we can use the START service by electronic means to run the business by e-Citizens via the portal. And this proposal for a law that will implement that directive on the use of digital tools and procedures in society law. We must strongly affirm the establishment of these new entities at a distance. The Directive states by which date Member States shall put into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive, but that does not mean that we should wait until the deadline for transposition into our legal system. Although digitisation in the registration process of companies and their branches should not go to the detriment of legal certainty and high accuracy and reliability of the court register of the procedure of electronic registration of commercial companies, its branches should be fully effective as soon as possible so as not to be lagging behind other countries, which will affect both the attractment of investments and the creation of new jobs and ultimately to increase GDP. Therefore, pursuant to this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register on 1 August this year, Article 2 of this Act entered into force, a proposal for a law regulating a qualified electronic signature, and the same date would enter into force in Article 10. A proposal for this law which regulates that an application for registration in the Register Court may be submitted as an id in a paper form but may also be submitted to the Court of Justice in electronic form. We welcome the provision in order to remove the abuses prescribed, that if the public notary suspects that the persons who submit the application have forged or otherwise misused their identity, that they are not in a commercial capacity or that they do not have the appropriate authority to submit the application, that the rules on the prevention of money laundering or that there are other illegalities in the procedure of the public notary may require their physical presence. It is good to propose that this proposal for a law should be considered to be the expiry of the eighth day from the day of publication of a letter on the website of the court register in order to remove doubts about the calculation of the time of delivery. Where an application for registration is submitted in electronic form by means of a public notary, the website of the Court Register system or the website of the Court Register as part of the START system. Further communication of applicants with the court register also takes place in electronic form. The applicant’s identity check shall be ensured by means of electronic identification and car identification and high level of safety. The applicant shall submit letters by electronic means via the public notary, the website of the Court Register system or the website of the Court Register as part of the START system, which shall be subject to the rules of application for registration in an appropriate manner. The Directive does not require that a minimum set of company data should always be provided free of charge, which will also increase transparency of company data. The EU also insists on the integration of central registers of trade registers and registers of commercial companies of Member States which started yet in 2017, which significantly facilitates cross-border access to information in trade companies in the Union and allows registers in Member States to communicate with each other in relation to certain cross-border activities relating to companies. It is evident that the application for registration in electronic form, communication by the Registrar Court and the Proposer in electronic form is simpler and faster and should develop this form of communication compared to the application to the Register Court in paper form with the application in paper form. In order to facilitate the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register, and to reduce the costs of time and administrative burden associated with these procedures, particularly micro-enterprises, and small and medium-sized enterprises as defined in the Commission recommendation should establish procedures which could be fully implemented through the Internet by the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register. That Directive should not oblige society to use such procedures, however, Member States should be able to decide whether to make any or all of the online procedures compulsory. It is clear that the Republic of Croatia should develop increasingly procedures for the establishment of companies and the registration of branches in the register to be fully implemented via the Internet at a distance, because the establishment of companies and their branches by applying in paper form and communication in person and in paper form should be a matter of the past if we want to keep up with developed European countries that attract investors, creating new jobs. The Social Democrats Club believes this proposal is both on track and will therefore support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88686	Thank you, Mrs. Nadj. Now it's Mr. Daniel Spajic's turn in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88687	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. The subject 10th amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies are directed on the one hand to comply with the EU Directive, and on the other hand, as the proposer states on administrative redundancies of the economy. Before I refer to this famous administrative redistribution of the economy, I will first quote the assessment of the situation set out in the proposal for a law which states: ‘The measures provided for in the action plan for administrative redistribution of the holding in 2019 abolish the obligation to conclude the transfer of the business share contract in the form of a public-book act or a private instrument confirmed by the public notary, and in accordance with the said regulation that the transfer of the business share is permitted by means of a contract certified or signed by an advanced electronic signature.’ This Regulation shall enter into The law is amended in paragraph 3. In order to transfer the share of the business, which is prescribed to require a contract certified in place of the form of a public-book act or a solemnised private correction. What to tell the Proposer about it than a really brilliant idea. How come no one has ever thought of such a simple procedure as the administrative discharge of the Croatian economy before? The consultation report shows, and what is truly unusual is that such a procedure has raised the whole legal profession. I believe you'll agree with me, at first, at first I'd think as soon as the courts, the chambers, the college departments, everyone got upset, it must be a good change. Yes, but just for the first time, I repeat only to the first. When reducing the costs that this amendment should take place, we must never do so to harm legal certainty because legal certainty is a necessary element of the rule of law that we must strengthen, not weaken, at least that is the way it should be. What are we going to get with a change like this? In the case of the transfer of business shares in limited liability companies, we will no longer pay to the public notary the costs of drawing up an act or solemnisation but to verify the signature. We're going to take a surface view of how great this is, and it's going to cost us less, and the public notebooks are going to make less money. However, the contract as a public notary involved in the ownership change plays a different role, and this second role is important for all of us, it is important for legal certainty. After participating in the ownership change, the public notary shall draw up a list of members of a limited liability company guaranteeing that that list which made up the truth and then submits it to the tax administration and to the court register. So that everyone can see in an easy and easy way in publicly available court register who is a member of which society, as soon as the change has taken place. Who cares? Well, it's important to all of us. It is important to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that they have accurate information on whether the property cards of officials have been properly filled, whether officials have transferred management rights, is important in the tax administration for the identification of related persons in tax relations. It is also important to prevent money laundering and other competent authorities and bonds from implementing measures to prevent and disclose money laundering and terrorist financing. It is important to the Competition Protection Agency to protect competition. It's important for entrepreneurs to know who they're dealing with. It's important to all believers, those who sell or donate their departments. It's important to the press that they can tell us a lot of things especially to people from the position of power. It is important for the exercise of the right of social care, for the exercise of rights during unemployed, pension, health care, as he said important to all of us. If a mere verification of the signature is introduced, the public notary will only determine the identity of the person certifying the signature, but will not enter into the content of the contract, so as not to provide lists of members of the company with limited liability to the tax administration and to the court register. The obligation to submit the list will be in the administration, and the administration has the right to believe or not when it is notified and provided evidence. Whether it'll be reported to her in one or five years. It's like it's important. So according to the proposed model, we depend primarily on whether or not someone will, and when they inform exactly that there has been a ownership change, and then we depend on whether the administration will and when to notify the court register. We must recognise the famous solution that will lead to the fact that the data in the court register will not correspond to the real state of membership in society. In the court register, we'll only see what's wanted to be visible. There's gonna be chaos in the courts, and here's us new disputes like there's not enough of them. There will be chaos and a number of procedures will be slowed down by all public authorities that are extremely important to provide information on business interests. There will be chaos for entrepreneurs in their business relations especially when they play a religious role. To avoid any doubts, the Homeland Movement will always support any discharge if it really happens and if it does not cause an even greater disturbance in such a wounded economy. However, this change will cause inexplicable adverse consequences. We change legal certainty into legal uncertainty, change transparency into non-transparentity under cover of cost reductions. Well, dear Minister who gave the fifth wind, he's gone, weren't you able to sit with a public record cabinet and cut the costs by correcting the public record tariff? To align the law with the directive, you state that these amendments provide the necessary protection mechanisms for abuse and fraud, and you are inciting new abuses and fraud by unthinking change, you are violating the rule of law by justifying yourself. the cost-delivery which will ultimately be too expensive a burden. The only foothold for such a change that I have managed to find in this scarce material is that it is a measure contained in the action plan for administrative redundancies of the economy from 2019. With such an explanation for only one thing I'm sure, the stasis is gone, it's imaginary. Even when we consider that the action plan comes from the kitchen of the Minister of Economy when the minister was Darko Horvat, it is clear, and it is even clearer when we know that he is currently being implemented by Minister Coric, in a people known as oc. I really don't know if there are any other interests behind the hills because when HDZ is always something good, or if it's just three ministers who have never seen the real sector in life, Horvat, Ćoric and Minister Malenica, or maybe the proposed devastion has a foothold in Plenkovic's goal of keeping Croatia in the first 30 countries on the Duing business scale? Well, dear people, you all know that two years ago. The World Bank suspended her for setting her up. And if there were before, we would have bounced from the famous 51st place to borrow a $200m World Bank loan to rebuild from an earthquake triggered by Minister Horvat's initiative because it was obviously not enough with the EU Solidarity Fund's grants. Well, that's how it's gonna work, for example. The project of building an Economic School in Sisak and the High School of Education in Petrinja will be financed from the World Bank loan, so the money that we will receive with interest and fees, however favourable they are, all thanks to our dear Minister Horvat, and all will be paid by Croatian citizens of course. There is no minister, and he is a legal profession, why you do not want to see what is visible and layman when in the translation consultation you do not give any reasoned arguments but you take it into consideration. I ask you to make a minimum effort at the second reading and state what is the situation now, what legal system has been your role model, what will the consequences arise, how will the court register perform its public office, in which the enrollment to trust persons who want to buy some business share, what will happen if the owner of the business share sells the same share several times during the change is not recorded? Will the change due to high risk undermine the sale of the share at all, who will be responsible for the damages that will result from the change in question? The Homeland Movement suggests you give up this amendment if you have any responsibility we believe that after you answer these questions you will do so. You're gonna tell us to make amendments, and I'm telling you there's no good amendment to bad law. A good amendment can exist on a good law to make the law even better. What you suggest can't be helped by the dear God, not by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88688	Especially since it's the first reading, in the second reading you'll be able to. Mr. Michel Jaksic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88689	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, representatives of the SDP Ministry will support these legislative changes at first reading, but I must also stress that in preparation for the second reading and through future amendments and discussions, we expect that some things are further modified and changed. What I would like to emphasise in my debate is that no matter how much the crown has brought both evil and uncertainty and health threats, of course and economic threats among all of us, what we can not quite get out of these words, but I will try to structure the word that perhaps the good that it has brought into economic functioning is that we have begun to accept how much necessary and necessary digitisation is, how much things can be done in a different way when we can't physically see each other, but it has shown us that much is possible to do in a more operational and efficient way. And that is why we view these changes as one of these steps that we are shown through alignment with European directives because it is certain that if we want to make progress on Duing Business Tables, if we want to become a country in which young people will dare step into the world of entrepreneurship that we have to give ourselves a lot of effort to deberate all of those processes that show up to us for 10, 20, 30 years as a problem in the everyday functioning of our companies. In particular, I mean small and medium entrepreneurship and craftsmanship that do not have one huge system that could monitor everything they need to satisfy in order to comply with the legal frameworks and what our legislation requires. This is one of those steps that we expect to use more in the new EU budget period by 2027, and this is when we talk about business and business coordination and the judiciary being one of those steps that we expect to use more in the new EU budget period by 2027, which is the digital transition between us as a society itself and our economy, because a lot of things can be done today in a digital world where we can say on the one hand that the state is becoming more operational, but on the other hand that it is definitely getting cheaper and thus we can start these structural changes that are necessary for our economy, which is that we are reducing the pressure that the big public sector creates on our entrepreneurs and, of course, we are opening up space for even more significant and stronger tax changes that could benefit our entrepreneurship, all those people who create new added value and who employ people. What I just need to draw attention to is that we are on one side moving through digitization, so we are speeding up a lot, we are doing a lot more effectively after that, and then it's probably reducing the number for certain jobs in the public administration itself, and there we are coming up with a paradox because despite sure we won't agree at the end of the day whether digitisation should have gone faster, whether we could have done even more, of course, that always, that the opposition will interpret that it could have been done even more, but that digitisation among us for some time now. Now the question now arises from one side of digitization, on the other hand we have demographic numbers and indicators that we have and are now visible on the last census, and on the third hand we have that in that period, our number of public service employees has increased according to the data that they slaughtered among the media by 100,000. Whether all these European directives we are introducing and all that we use as the benefits of digital transition will be this final step to finally make that final decision that we want with our public administration and how to make this public administration not to be a mastodont but indeed one fast, quality, efficient and correct service to all our and ordinary citizens, but of course our entrepreneurship for all those services that it expects from the national state of those people who pay taxes and all of which we all get paid together. These are some questions I hope that in future discussions we will slowly get answers, structure the debate because I believe that we are expected by citizens who today are caring and working in this country, who are hiring these people, people who may still be looking forward to staying here today or moving for friends abroad, and those who may be thinking about coming back to this country tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88690	Thank you, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will represent the views of the Centre and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88691	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, before us are the amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register, and these amendments in these laws here can be immediately said in the beginning we actually support them because they contribute to reducing administrative processes, reducing therefore and administration and all those obstacles that actually enable our entrepreneurs to open and facilitate business in the country. Tax and regulatory burdens on the economy in the Republic of Croatia are a significant limiting factor that reduces competitiveness and has a serious negative impact on the overall quality of life. As I said as the Liberal Party and the Centre and on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, we advocate administrative redistribution of the economy, we need a reduction in the burdens of entrepreneurs, fiscal, parafiscal burdens, restructuring of public administration as we have heard many times, a territorial reconstruction to facilitate entrepreneurs to create new values and to create conditions for development and a modern economy. Elimination of excessive administrative processes would significantly speed up investment and raise efficiency. We are certainly also in favour of reducing the costs of citizens and businesses, as well as eliminating the excess processes that inhibit investment and waste resources needlessly. Elimination of unnecessary administration will also reduce the possibility of corruption as bureaucrats in ministries, the local administration will no longer be able to blackmail businessmen and citizens. One comment I came across recently says that corruption is a seven-headed dragon, when you cut off one of his mates very quickly grows up. So how many heads of corruption in Croatia, each year it reminds us, and this Transparency International report is mentioned several times today here from this pay phone on the corruption perception index. So in this year's report that they normally work for the whole world, according to the report, Croatia remains in the same place as last year, among the EU's most corrupt countries, we are worse off Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. The EU's average of around 66 points from the total score, while Croatia is 47 points behind a total of 19 points at an average. So how to shorten these corruption chapters in Croatia or reduce opportunities for corruption? I welcome here, as I said at the beginning of every law, any amendments to the law that will further facilitate working conditions for entrepreneurs, which will further shorten processes, lift unnecessary papers, reduce personal contacts with the public administration because all of this actually reduces the number of opportunities for corruption. So here we are in the '22s in the 21st century here we are talking about amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Court Register which will further facilitate the procedure of setting up a company or further reduce the need for papers, enable the full establishment of a company on a line on a distance without the participation of a public notary. According to the interpretations of the European Commission, electronic procedures include exclusive and complete electronic approach, without physical contact, without sending paper and must be available to citizens of the entire European economic area. These laws were passed back in '94. Since then, several times changed, last here is 2019. where this remote establishment was at all possible for these two most common forms of companies d.o.o. and J.D.O.O. In addition to modernising, it has made it easier to establish and exit from the company’s capital market and has transposed EU provisions on encouraging the long-term participation of shareholders, and the present proposal is a step in digitising the procedure for the establishment and registration of companies in the Court’s register. It proposes to refresh and facilitate the establishment of branches of companies, to enable all necessary registrations, registrations, data updates to be carried out remotely and that is, as I said, to welcome. The only question is whether we've really thrown the papers out of the whole process and, for example, A signature certificate with a public notary? It seems that we are not because the process when founders need to give power to establish a remote society needs to be verified by the public notary, it is particularly problematic when it comes to foreign natural or legal persons, as indicated in the public debate itself, one of the comments that came during the public debate. So, here's when we've already introduced the electronic signature as an identity verification tool it's instructed to introduce it at all levels and really digitize everything that can be. Here, of course, is also connected to this Law on Public Libraries, I hope that the amendments to this law will go in this direction to achieve full digitisation of all these processes. Similarly, through a public debate, it has been pointed out that the extract from the appropriate register for legal founders is often required for extracts from various registers often required to be in writing. The court register very often also does not recognise the digitally signed documents as valid. So, if we are seeking a society where the state should not ask citizens for the information and documents it already has in its registers, all registers should therefore be linked in a way that we really are e-Government and that all of our communication with the state can ultimately be done through smart phones and that the OIB and citizens are sufficient information with which all other data will be withdrawn from existing registers. Here when we asked and here we didn't get an answer from the secretary of state, so which company got a job updating information systems that would link all of this together and enable this complete digitisation, the secretary of state said that he didn't know all the details of the public procurement, he doesn't know who signed up, so we didn't even care who applied to this contest, but really who got this job, who's going to do it, because here we found the information that the job was worth 10 million kuna. I think the public should also know whether, given the practice so far and the affairs so far, which have caused doubts in a number of other ministries. So, we didn't say that there were any problems here, but here's the clear information so who got that job. Often, as one EU country that is often a model that we refer to as a model, it is Estonia, a country that has brought its administration's digitization to the highest level, so that there are some people who are working there that are less and less in need of a type of bookkeeper's business, an accountant just because the system is absolutely digitised, informationally connected, all accounts that are even circulating by the system are automatically registered taxes, taxes, taxes, all of which are automatically processed, so there is no really no need at all for the jobs of the type of bookkeeper that do it by hand. So here we support any reduction in the complexity of administrative processes, digitisation, reduction of paper that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to open management procedures for their companies. And lastly, I'm going to mention one restriction that represents a major obstacle for beginners, which is a minimum wage for directors. So, a beginner who moves very often from zero kuna incomes so often it's entrepreneurs beginners who don't know in advance some agreed million jobs start the company and knowingly I'd say they forget about themselves in those beginnings don't pay themselves a salary. But here are the states asking them to pay a gross salary of 1.1.2022. the minimum gross salary of an employee member of the Executive Director of the firm of the liquidator and cooperative manager shall not be lower than HRK 6,199,05; therefore, the Director shall be obliged to pay contributions and taxes. A major obstacle for beginner entrepreneurs would be very good to introduce some period of time, I don't know for a year at least until they get on their feet and are financially capable of paying themselves as directors. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88692	You, too. Mr. Krunoslav Katičić will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88693	I thank the chairman. Collaterals, State Secretarys from the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues present in this assembly. Here it is before us and can be pointed out that the HDZ Club will, of course, support the proposed amendments and complement both the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register. In short, I think it is a new additional effort that has been a lot of implementing some of the provisions that have been in front of us for many years have been seen in real practice, and now they are legalized through legislative legislative proposals so that I think that they will ultimately give a good result to the well-being of all our citizens or lordship as such in full. It has already been said several times in the introduction that there is also a certain implementation of European directives, so I believe that it is not necessary to repeat it again in detail now. In short, I will stick to a few points to show on behalf of the club about the proposed text, which is of course in the first reading, so there will be plenty of time for all the specific suggestions that have been made on both the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution or on the Committee on Legislatives that are parent to this whole issue, and I think that by the second reading, they will study and try to solve and find appropriate solutions to the welfare of all of us. Of course, the biggest step is to digitise the whole process both in the Commercial Society Act and in the Court Register, which will contribute to the speed and efficiency of the resolution and records necessary for such matters. As I was saying at the outset, I will not get too caught up in the legislative proposal because these things are well-decided, even in the debate both with the opposition and with the ruling party praise the solutions concerning so-called. disqualified directors of companies that, according to certain criteria and behaviours that concern themselves so far, only some partially minor abuses are now more detailedly apostrophe in the law itself. Of course, it should be noted, in particular, that part concerning the introduction of the euro in the whole process. As is known today and tomorrow, it is again a session of the working group for the introduction of the euro, and I think that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice are also taking part in this process, so it is very important that we agree in that part to European principles, or to adapt all these laws... that it is not only the amount of founding capital but also other things such as the economic rate to be in line with this. I also need to highlight the good stuff, and this is about the liquidation process, it's about the art. 382. of this existing law, one of the cancer wounds in practice was the storage of these documents and keeping of business documentation in case of liquidation. Unfortunately, in public, the process of liquidation in my humble opinion does not apply quite well, and there are good examples. Here I can say one from Krapina-Zagorje County, but not to advertise the company, the process itself of opening up the liquidation is not the end of this company and can be used at some point well by existing activities. But this change is important because of the end itself because it was a problem and a spatial one, as well as the possibility of depositing that documentation. It was also adopted that an integral part of this proposal is certain forms that apply to a significant extent and facilitate only the way in which any business entity is set up. Of course, it remains what is good or that it means to use a soloisation instrument in a public notary or a so-called procedure. the certified private documents of legal importance have absolutely the same power. I also think that one of the same large newspapers is the establishment, it introduces and decodes the more detailed possibility of setting up a society at a distance of course with the participation of the public notary. A colleague from the Homeland Movement spoke on the subject in the opposite direction. I will also touch this as one in the area where the elements and possibilities to consider the second reading are concerned, to find one possible solution that could be to protect all of us. Of course, the digitization already mentioned. And now a little bit in that part about what I said about that business share, it's about Article 412. The Act on the Commercial Society and that transfer of the business share. I think that we should try to consider even more detail and think about another reading in which direction it can be because in practice there can really be some even hypothetical situations, but I think it's time to try to take advantage of these things as well. In my view, regardless of the most important newspapers of this legal or these amendments, it is added that in the event that a company is attached to a business entity, and a bankruptcy procedure is opened against these companies or that the insolvency procedure also transfers it to the company of the acquirer. It's a newspaper that's a lot, now regulates and prevents a significant number of possible legal or manipulation maneuvers that happen in that part. As regards, of course, an integral part of this provision of amendments and additions of companies are also the Court Register Act. It is also about the implementation of certain, not certain, but certain directives in this very important court register. However, in view of these amendments, since the Law on Commercial Companies is nevertheless the basic law and for the application of the Law on the Court Register of Implementation and the coordination of these two activities already involved in this procedure, there is a significant improvement as well as in the electronicisation and possibility of applying and registering of all relevant elements concerning the registration, and in particular in this regard when it comes to the possibility of opening up or modifying the founding rights. That's it. Finally, I repeat that the HDZ Club will support this bill, and until the second reading all possible disagreements and small proposals for consideration will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-25-0.u88694	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9:30 with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Act, which is an emergency procedure and the law is number 248. Thank you and rest. Session interrupted at 18.03 hours. Thank you. It is now up to Mr. Marijan Pavliček, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
