ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u82945	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We begin our work as always with the presentation of the position of independent representatives and club representatives. First in line today's esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u82946	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, have a difficult time giving birth to great people, so during World War II, the spiritual leader of the Croatian people was the blessed Aloysius Stepinac. If it were a different time, the question is whether Alojzie Stepinac would mean so much to the Croatian people today. In the Homeland War, also one bishop proved to be a true shepherd of his people, Bishop Srecko Badurina, a Bosniak bishop who today remained very much in the memory of the believers of the Sibenik diocese. Why do I mention Aloysi Stepintz because we're marking his day tomorrow? On the next day we mark the day of his death, the day he died, when he left this world. However, when I speak of Stepinac, he is much more than a spiritual leader, he is also a symbol of resistance to all totalitarianisms. He is a symbol of resistance to an unfair communism, but he was also a symbol of resistance and voice of reason at the time of the Independent State of Croatia. Today is not such a difficult time, and we probably don't have such spiritual leaders as we were at the time, but we always have to remember people like Badurina, like Stepinac and give them the right place in the presentation, today, and remember what they meant for the Croatian people once. When I'm talking about Stepinz, maybe it's best to say that famous line, and that's santos subito. So, we Croats want the world to become the world as soon as possible for the reason that I mentioned earlier, because it meant a lot to the Croatian people and that it lives on the trail of holiness. Unfortunately, politics also interferes. The Serbian Orthodox Church has been mixing its fingers there, so far so that even in the White Church in Serbia today some frescoes have taken place where Alojzije Stepinac is blessed, Alojsija Stepinac is shown burning in hell. So, just to know who we're dealing with, just to know who today represents the Serbian Orthodox Church and how it behaves, treats the greatest sanctities for our people. I have often spoken and today I will repeat that it would be very good to put all those who are members of the Roman Catholic Church and that membership in the property cards. We put membership in various associations, and we don't put it most importantly. Here's a suggestion, so maybe I'll do it first. When you're a member of a church, then you accept the rules of that organization, that church, and then when something tells you something about the science of faith, when a holy father tells you something, when he says something to you et pax, when something says to you over and over again to the Council of Bishops Conference, and here I'm thinking about a specific topic, and that's about fighting the pandemic, and then you accept those facts. All those who do not hear Croatian bishops, the Croatian Church today and think that they are members of that church I invite them to a new boot, to have a nice foundation of their church, to be some new Jean Calvin, to be some new Martin Luther because the church has clear rules, and rules are obedience and obedience. So, as we listened to the bishops when they talked about the Istanbul Convention, we sided with the people, we listen today when they talk about fighting the pandemic, when they talk about vaccination. Otherwise choose another church, choose a new pope, choose some new bishops. My bishops are well aware of who Alojsi Stepinac are and this is Bishop Happy Badurina, and I will finish this speech with Alojsi Stepinac on my lips, that is, in words and I will order another santo subito.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u82983	A colleague of Bartulica will speak last on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u82984	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I often point out two things when we talk about current topics, the first of these famous stabilitys that are often highlighted as the achievement of this government actually means economic stagnation. And such stability is not actually at the service and benefit of the citizens of Croatia. The other thing is that often their government decisions not only in Croatia, but in the world cause more damage than benefits. This is certainly true in this pandemic, but even more so in the economy every day. So, we all agree that it is not good for Croatia to have fewer and fewer inhabitants, that our standard remains at the bottom of the EU, that average salaries, although mildly growing still in relation to other countries, are too low. However, we disagree on how to change that. Some seek, call for an even greater role of the state, even greater political interference in our lives. I argue the opposite that we actually have too many policies present from the economy to other areas and therefore Croatia is in such a difficult situation and that is why Croatia is vulnerable, even more vulnerable than others when inflation and rising energy prices and other products occur. This is also seen for example in fuels where, instead of the government reducing excise duties and VAT on fuel, it decided to freeze prices. So, I'll remind you of every liter of gasoline. Let's say it's about 11 kuna. Over six kunas over half goes to the state. So it has a strong impact on the price and I think it's already time for other logic to be applied and that it starts to reduce actually this burden on various products. That's the first one. The question arises, if the price of fuel is already frozen, why is this done in other areas. For example, the prices of real estate in many cities are growing. It would be a lot easier if these prices were lower, why the government didn't intervene there, which is why, if that's a good principle. So because of the state of our railways, people are simply forced to use cars and have to buy fuel from other countries, the share of the country is very, very high. The second is that it's actually just how to share the burden in this state? What exactly is social justice? What's it like to define? One American economist, Walter Williams, offered the next definition of social justice. I keep what I earn and you keep what you earn, then tell me how much of my profit belongs to you and why? Why? So you need to see this in the context of new ideas by some in the union public seeking new taxes. So it's not tax cuts or cuts, it's new taxes, especially on the rich. Why isn't that a good idea? There are many bad consequences and it is not by chance that many European countries have abolished it. Of those who still have this in place, Switzerland may have the greatest use of that, and less than 3% of the total in the budget of such a tax. And the basis for that tax is much, much bigger in Switzerland than in ours. So, the problem with us is it's not the awakening of neoliberalism, it's that we're a country without economic freedom. As such, the state does not create new values just redistribute what others create. Therefore, logic needs to be changed and this legacy from communism, this socialist thinking is increasingly costing Croatia and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83041	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives will be spoken by counterpart Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83042	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. One of the main news in Croatia in the last few days is the new designs of Croatian euro coins. It has not been 24 hours, and a scandal has erupted over all of Croatia, but also a good part of the world's public. However, the question arises who is all responsible for this disgrace both by the state and the Croatian National Bank, whether it is the author of the obvious plagiarist Stjepan Pranjković, who has withdrawn his work or responsibility and the Croatian National Bank, a separate state institution in the country. Are they responsible for a commission for money that has failed to respect the opinions of the Croatian Society of Designers and has opened such a sloppy tender, bear the responsibility and governor of the CNB who receives 48,000 kuna per month and has appointed such a bad competition. Apparently not. And in order for this shame to be even more interesting to the general public, numerous commentators appear daily. All present, Žarko Puhovski, a person who has been swearing on one sense for several decades, a person who advocated unitary Yugoslavia, a person who took pictures of himself in the eyes of the Homeland War itself with Ivan Raskovic, today the person acts as a big Democrats and says that the kuna is a pure Ustasha symbol. Here I have a '43 kuna. year, 5,000 kuna as he says the pure Ustasha symbol this for me is not a Ustasha symbol this is for me a means of payment at a given moment in, in a certain area, as was later a Yugoslav dinar, as it was later a Croatian dinar, and again Croatian kuna. Because if we were to stick to the narrative of Žarko Puhovski then Kraš and Končar would be pure communist symbols, symbols of the Communist party only because of their name, and today they are primarily the symbols of Croatia's successful production of Croatian products that are present across the EU, around the world that employ several thousand of our citizens. The all-present Hrvoje Klasic is also a historian who says that Kuna is a Ustasha currency, a Ustasha payment agent and that Croatia has no links and no specificity with the kuna as an animal and that the kuna should not be on Croatian coins at all. And this same Hrvoje Klasic forgets that since 1496 the Kingdom of Slavonia had been placed on the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Slavonia, that this kuna is also on the coat of arms of the three Kingdom of Croatia, that even in the 12th, 13th century in the continental Croatia it was paid with coins on whose head was like a kuna and that the tax paid in the Middle Ages was called Kunovina. The only thing I'm sure of is that both Puhovski and Klasic love as much of these Ustasha symbols as they have in their wallet. But thank God we had in the past and much more quality historians such as Dr. Franjo Tudjman who had the breadth unlike some today and who had just named the Croatian currency as she liked it, the Croatian Kuna. But not too much about the past to go back to the present. One of the biggest mistakes of today's government is the change of national currency. The EU has never been in a more uncertain financial situation. Energy prices rise drastically, food prices and services increase drastically. Inflation last month at RH 5.5%. According to all indicators, Croatia is not ready to enter the euro area, we are the last to be developed in the EU. Our GDP per capita is €11,000, the EU average is around €30,000. The EU's most developed countries are at EUR 40 and more thousand. Let us remember what happened to countries that entered the euro area and were not ready, one Portugal, today the labour price in Portugal is 25% lower than 10 years ago. One Greek who had a financial breakdown six years ago. Let's not let this happen to Croatia, Croatia is not ready and is not competitive to enter the euro zone. If we go in unprepared, we will create another wave of poor citizens who will head for Western Europe, and Croatia cannot afford it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83103	The 10th is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, according to counterpart Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83104	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, three months ago in November, I announced the arrival of great inflation. It was then addressed simply by all trends, energy prices rise, food prices rise, but also by forecasts and serious warnings from different European institutions. At that time, the Prime Minister unfortunately only shook his hand and knows what time he underestimated the MPs, but also the problem that would affect our country as well. But today it's a reality. Inflation does not knock but knocks on the door, and the government does nothing, at least nothing serious or just creates the impression that something is being done about it. The best example for this is the sale of fog in the freezing of energy prices. Let's just consider some facts. In 2008, therefore, during Ivo Sanader, the price of barrels of oil on the world market reached $140 per barrel, as much as $140, but the price of gasoline was below 10 kuna. Today the price of oil is $90 per barrel, and the price of gasoline is almost 12 kuna. Why? What's changed? Biofuels fee? Neglect. A dollar course? Identical. What's really changed? The margin, the margin of oil companies, has changed dramatically. From the former margin of 40 to 50 limes per litre, it grew to nearly 2 kuna per litre. So over 300 percent and who's paying that margin? Croatian citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It suits the government because it collects more VAT, but that puts our country's interests at risk, as well as the existence of our citizens. Especially in transport, especially when it comes to the price of food. But the real question arises why the margin has grown so much. So she grew up because the Competition Protection Agency just doesn't do its job. Two of the largest companies currently on one side of INA MOL and on the other side Petrol are holding 75% of the oil derivatives market in Croatia. This means that they are in some way market creators, market makers, or simpler words, monopolies that are de facto joined into the cartel, which is contrary to EU laws, and hence Croatian laws. So it's illegal. In some countries, a certain criminal treatment would already be done. Why does the government allow the Competition Agency not to react, that is a question that government officials will have to answer to these days. In this way, the Competition Protection Agency has directly compromised the standard of citizens and has made it possible to collect. And when he collects gas, he collects de facto everything. When the government freezes the price of fuel to 12 kunas, it's like directly pushing citizens' money into the pockets of oil companies on that good old principle, the fat geese get their necks dirty. Especially when it is known that foreign owners are exploiting Croatian gas and Croatian oil at our sites and are paying for it miserable fees. A few times less than for example. in neighbouring Hungary. So Hungary's native Hungary's MOL charges more and says Minister Coric, a well-known lawyer of foreign interests yesterday, that INA is the owner of gas and oil wells. Yes, but what they don't understand in the government or at least they don't want to understand, and I think they understand, and they are working against our country's interest is that Croatia determines the price of concessions for exploitation, and it is not determined by foreign owners. This is our country, and we need to decide how concessions are calculated. See only how many gas bills our entrepreneurs got, even 4 times bigger. Such a blow, unfortunately waiting for the citizens. That is why, as the Social Democrats Club, we have already made a proposal to freeze the prices of basic life supplies, to ease the shock precisely for the most vulnerable groups of citizens, pensioners, students, socially endangered. But today we're making three new proposals. To stop a simple rise in energy prices to the standard of citizens and businesses. The first is, therefore, our first proposal is to lower VAT at the gas price to the lowest possible rate of 5% in such a way as to simply enable citizens to reduce the impact from the rise in gas prices. It doesn't matter if the bill is 95 or 80 kuna. The second is to redefine concessions on oil and gas, i.e. that Croatia has profits from rising oil and gas prices on the world market and that money goes to help businesses. And the third proposal is that the most vulnerable groups of citizens who are growing prices and electricity and gas are covered by the cost difference this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83173	Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Pulak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83174	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, coming every week for this pay phone and talking every time about a new affair that shakes this country slowly comes out of my ears I have to admit to me and the people who should listen to this. At such speeds, the affairs change that HDZ is now starting with policy 2 in 1, you buy 2 you get 3 because they don't get to do one-by-one affair at the end. I think the HDZ is doing this on purpose to relativize everything, to make us all die because there is a plagiarization of the doctorate, manipulation of state properties is not a problem, reporting a fake residence is not a problem, hiring relatives and friends is a very common practice in today's Croatia, and there is no need to get too excited about anything mentioned. We now have a new series of affairs all directed by the CNB is the last of them a fully dilettaneous competition for the making of the Croatian coin EUR, with which the incompetence of our leading institutions managed to spill beyond the borders of Croatia and embarrass us in front of all of Europe. In short, it was found first that the tender itself was not called in line with the recommendations of the profession. Instead of a clearly prescribed process that guarantees that the selected work will meet the standards of the CNB's money commission, it has offered to report to all those who want to participate and send a literally drawn coin to the A4 list of papers. There was no expert jury but decided on the papers by the commission, including the famous head of Prime Minister's office, Frka Petesic, in his second affair in several weeks. As a second kuna on the winning design of a euro coin was painted, plagiarized from photographs of a Scottish photographer. Isn't that cream on the cake? The plagiarism won the EUR coin contest. But why are we even surprised at something like that in a country where HDZ's vans are filled and going over the weekend to get a doctorate, in which a sentence of theoretical paradigm is the growth of permanent permeability part of a doctorate that, with the blessing of the university, will be corrected 4 years after the defense, could it have ended differently? The CNB casually informed us yesterday that it was going to launch a new tender, a turkey dot we were joking a little bit about seriously, as if it were some petty technical error, a little bit of a bump that could have happened to anyone, as if it were, as if it were not a top-of-the-line scandal that the amateurism of the people in the leading positions in this country had taken on a whole new dimension. At the heart of this affair is the currency means of payment, and it happens in the year in which Croatia prepares to enter the euro zone. This kind of epic debauchery wouldn't have come up with even the best movie screenwriters. What would happen if these coins were printed, they were released into circulation? Unfortunately, when the current affairs are summed up which we witness plagiarism and theft from day to day are imposed as motives that symbolise today's Croatia more precisely than the verb or Tesla. For this very reason, the responsibility of the authorities should be sought in this case. If one CNB is unable to conduct a tender for coin design according to the rules of the profession, it will humiliate the entire profession which we can expect of them in terms of regulation of the financial system. Could we perhaps expect CNB employees to trade in the securities of the banks they oversee or that the governor will put in the pocket half a million kuna of the Hungarian Central Bank's prize? Oops, that's already happened to us. In a civilised European country such as this is not possible, but in the wildly, corrupt, destructive Croatia, it is quite normal, as one journalist Dora Krušul has noted well, the country is leading us to the HDZ that encourages, encourages and favours plagiarists and mules, you should not be surprised that the EUR coin tender has not gone differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83244	We're going to the 7th debate, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, will speak to a respected colleague named Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83245	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a new year and HDZ continues with old habits and the order of its affairs has come to order and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Otherwise, the heads of the county often like to point out that they have contracted the most European money there, as much as 7 billion kunas, which will be intended exclusively to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. But from what we've recently learned, the truth is obviously a little different. To introduce you into the story in that same county on the island of Korcula for 2 years we have been fighting against the project of reconstruction of the Korčula Račište road for the sake of Račiste, pointing to irregularities and illegalities, pointing to excessive overcrowding of the coast, to the endangerment of ecosystems, to issuing a building permit without the necessary documentation, etc. We have also initiated court proceedings against the project in Croatia, but we have reported everything to the EU authorities. The 171 million kuna project itself should be financed from EU funds. In fact, in the 12th month of 2021, so 2 months ago after a heated debate at the 6th Assembly of our county council members refused to support the annual financial plan for the 2022th year of the County Road Administration, which even 63% of this financial plan concerned European funds intended for the realization of this harmful project. And you can imagine how surprised we were then when the other day we were from the Central Finance and Contracting Agency, so SAFU's agency whose director is in prison set up by the prime minister, so when we learned from them that the contract with the EU was broken and that it was broken up in the 7th month of 2021 and that it was broken up at the County initiative, so the County Road Administration. So, 5 months after the contract was terminated at the county assembly, a document containing funds from a contract that was terminated sounds crazy, of course. Therefore, the data you have just heard clearly point to fraud and fraud in the organisation of HDZ County Authority in which they participated and are still involved by Mayor Nikola Dobroslavić and also Director of ZUC Ivo Kaštelan, so they participated and participated in the fraud of their representative body of chief, therefore county council members, in the fraud of citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but also in the fraud of companies participating in public procurements that were continued after the termination of the contract from which these public procurements should be paid. So, county council members, I will repeat that, they voted on the annual financial plan, the most important document by ZUC, with the belief that the main project in the plan was financed by grants from eu funds even though the contract was terminated five months ago. We can only guess about the motivation of the people involved, is it possible that they were terrified of too many awake and open European eyes who like to know where each euro ended, we don't know. But the experience we unfortunately have gained many more times than we wanted to teach us that, as always, almost certainly behind everything, the most ranked HDZ officials at national level are put into favors that this project wanted to push at all costs. And so while Korčula and her residents wanted it so, HDZ Free Island, the octopus of its arms obviously has both in southern Croatia and through its soles at the county level all the means, and by falsifying information and falsifying documents trying to push through harmful projects for someone's benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83324	We're going to the fourth debate on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club of the Most Fellow Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83325	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, we can testify to the various news, so there is a whole series of news from Capak's removal of the covid certificate until Beroš's return, Bozinovic's return of confirmation, that Zanamari is not coming out of the gym, that the pregnant Hana Huljic has recorded a pay spot for our president and our prime minister, the resignations of the Polish minister, etc. etc. All the way to the prison sentence for a beggar, which is how we get to know all the decay of this system that we live in. And once and for all, it should be clear to us that everything works in Croatia, it works perfectly well, starting with legal regulations, and all the more. We need to understand that in Croatia, you don't get sanctioned if you do something, you touch something, you steal something, you steal it, you take it away, or I don't know somewhere in a contest you set something up, you don't do it at work, you sleep it off, you sleep it off. What is mentioned earlier in the face of a crime, the actions of a request that sends a terrible ugly picture to the world, the world about our Croatia, the life in our Croatia, and which creates a sense of discomfort and shame in people who pass by beggars. We can't do that, and that doesn't work for us, because if you want to be almost hungry, you have to work. And there's no way you're full of even yesterday's bread but you're not doing anything. And all the corruption of a certain state is seen by the number of beggars, and the wealth, the abundance of a certain state, is seen by stolen money. I think we all agree on that in principle. And that's why anyone who begs should be bound in front of a certain store or a place where he's asked, that everyone who passes by and lives and works can actually spit on that shameless man, that selfish man and the sloth who only embarrasses us, in us causes feelings of discomfort, bothers us, etc. etc. Because if you're lazy by any chance, not only for work but also for applying to a particular competition and you're going to enjoy a few swears so you can buy yourself some bread, maybe even a beer, whatever you're relying on, the people who go behind you end up in jail. And you know who reports you? You are reported by jealous characters who pass by you because you are better off begging than those who work. And nobody asks you how you feel, why you're like that, why you've touched the bottom of your life, what's the reason for your application. Something similar happened these days in Novi Gradišca, where a 28-year-old citizen who was otherwise disabled, who stood outside the store and forgave the entire 84 kuna, was impromptuly sentenced to a five-day prison sentence and is due to pay court costs. He was convicted of violating public order and peace in accordance with the law with which he was a year old from '94. The efficiency of the state is visible here because the verdict provided at least a lodging in the dry and fullness of this lowlife who would like bread without work. And what must be our danger is to repeat his actions again when he gets out of prison because who's going to be responsible for all these misdeeds. And finally, if he had at least stolen a few million then his Superhik would have allowed him to live in this Croatia, he wouldn't have ended up where he ended up. When you're going to ask a little thing like this, it's okay to be put in jail. And in case he gets up and complains about some knee pain, I think we all need to get up tight and make it impossible for him to go to the spa. When we wake up and realize that Croatia's Alan Fordovska, where the wounded are dug, and the dead are brought to hospitals, we don't need any kalashnikovs or eggs, we should go to the polls, even if we cross the ballot. Because crossing the ballots is a message. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83396	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives and the esteemed counterpart of Greece, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83397	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP yesterday presented two concrete measures that should be taken to improve the position of one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, which are pensioners. This crisis, the covid crisis, we already know what it has done and this economic crisis caused first by Covid, and now inflation definitely affects the poorest ones most. The rise in energy prices, but then food and housing, and everything else, I say to those people who in the consumption structure have these precisely components at the highest percentage. And these are the pensioners, they're the ones who have the least, the least income. That's why yesterday we asked the question of the model of harmonising pensions that has been around us for years and which should be changed. Why do you need to change it? So the existing model that combines 70 30% weighting is whether, two key indicators, which are costs, the cost index of living and the gross wage index is simply further unsustainable. Why is he unsustainable? Because in each of these coordinations, either the purchasing power of the pension falls or the average pension ratio and the average salary decreases. For example, only in the last 5 years, so in the 2 mandates of this government, there has been a decline in the average pension rate from 40% to 37%. If the next 10, 15 years continue with this same model there is a real danger mathematically considered that pensions, average pensions fall below 30% of the average salary and we simply all come together here and ruling and opposition have to stand together and change it. Now is the time because now is the most sensitive moment and now you can see how important it is to do something to keep the purchasing power of retirement and preserve it. So 200 kuna pensions today and 200 kuna 3 months ago are not the same. Today, much less for these 200 kunas can be bought both in terms of the payment of the directors and in terms of the payment of energy and in terms of the payment of food. And that is what is the key problem at the moment, and the government is unfortunately late with measures that would primarily help the most needed, and then all other Croatians and mitigate these negative effects of high, high inflation. And I would say even more dangerously high expectations of inflation in the coming months, as we see it already psychologically affecting the economy, the trades, the entrepreneurs to raise prices. And that's not good. So there's a reasonable price hike, but surely there's an unwarranted one. And that's why we suggest that the future model of pension harmonisation be such that you always take a 100% more favourable factor for pensioners. So if inflation is 5%, and growth pays 2% of pensions will match 5%. And that's how purchasing power is kept, so no more retirements, no more purchasing power. And more importantly, we will prevent further declines in the share of average pensions in the average salary. The other thing we offered yesterday is one short-term measure. This is long-term she's, if we change the formula she's going to be for many years I hope because really at this point is the best solution. The short-term measure we proposed was to help pensioners model a Covid supplement since last year. So we didn't move much from the government's proposal and we said, that was good last year that Covid's supplement was good, do it and now because there are very serious reasons to do it. And in these measures that are here, unfortunately, we wait until the end of February as announced, I think the measures should have taken place long before, immediately, so I ask you to take care of yourself who you are, take care of the pensioners, put that story together about some inflationary one to say an addition that would mitigate the consequences of inflation by the standards of our pensioners. What is important at this time is that all people in Croatia feel less the consequences of the inflation crisis, avoid it, but the consequences may be less than they may be. We're expecting it right now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83481	We're going to the 11th debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed colleague Deur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83482	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few important things that have happened in my Councils. The first move of the current mayor Tomasevic, what he did and the platforms We can abolish the parent-teacher measure. Except that they do not understand and distinguish demographics from social measures, they obviously do not perceive the important problems that meet the City of Zagreb and Sesvete. His main platform or their platform is, we're going to give all the kids to kindergartens, not thinking that these mothers, these families, almost 900 families in the Sesvets have loans, that it was their life existence, that these families are in one serious social problem today. We invite you, Your Honor, to come among those mothers and explain under what conditions their children will go to kindergarten. The worlds have 4 towns and 6 private kindergartens and the largest increase in the population, not only in the City of Zagreb, we can say freely throughout Croatia. Many of these kindergartens do not have adequate equipped rooms and an insufficient number of high-quality and educated staff because it is an investment in the future. Where are the kids who don't have room in kindergarten? The worlds have 10 elementary schools that are chronically lacking in logos, psychologists, which these times are extremely needed and require upgrades and energy restoration of objects. Schools do not receive the necessary money from the city office in time, so children often suffer and a better organisation of extended stay is needed. Kitchen equipment, improving offer of better quality menus. In the jurisdiction of the city administration, these children are able to train at standardized acceptable prices, arrange and ensure school-leading buttocks. Gentlemen and I can, here's a proposal for free sports activities for all the kids, I guess that's all you can do. Area Badel, the area of Sljeme are huge spaces where you are planning an alternative dump that is currently in the process of groping and research that serves the new Zagreb government We can also serve SDP there, the Cleanness Services are unloading massive waste to warn some civil society organisations, if you are planning a new threat to the citizens of Sesveto. Sesvete with its surroundings as a young demographic environment and the largest city quarter has been neglected for years by local authorities, which the new government in the City of Zagreb confirmed by the allocation of waste storage and.../incomprehensible/... in Sesvetski Kraljec and surrounding forests along the water streams and access roads. These numerous construction companies use different courtyards as warehouses of open waste within the company. Citizens of the Council have long lost confidence in the city's institution, and this way we ask inspectorates and inspectors to be more specific, that what citizens call on them to respond in time and time. Penalties for such acts are too mild below any level of acceptance, therefore this is why many companies continue to carry out illegal waste disposal because the number of inspections is minor. The reaction occurs very rarely despite numerous reports of citizens and warnings. Why did he schedule the Zagreb City apparatus? Which should clean the environment and protect the health of citizens. Why the institutions of the City of Zagreb don't respond to citizens' calls when we can. I therefore also call on the state's inspection of the timely response from this place if they already forget the meaning of the policy they advocated in the pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83556	We are now going to the third debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, respected colleague Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83557	Good afternoon, everyone. As regards freedom of speech, the situation recently really reminds the journalist Goran Borkovic in Novostomi wrote at the time of Tomislav Karamark, who at the meeting of the HDZ Defence Society Gojko Šušak on 3 May 2014 precisely on the World Freedom Day of the Media. Everyone in their room, yard and home can think what they want, but surely not on the public stage, they will have to respect the values on which the Croatian State, the Homeland War, our defenders and the dead and the political doctrine of Dr. Francis Tudjman and the great work of Gojko Šushka. 8 years later, people are detained, including pensioners for insulting the characters and acts of the prime minister on social networks, journalists are exposed to lawsuits and threats everything smells like a good old atmosphere in the '90s that Karamarko was keenly trying to restore. The final example comes from Osijek. After declaring on his Facebook profile on August 5th of last year the status of a happy day of victory over ethnically not cleaning everyone who celebrates crime, John Cingel, professor at the Osijek Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture, and the president of the Osijek Architects Society went to the press. Some like the Voice of Slavonia have practically issued a warrant for a Cingel who would not be ashamed of even the most poisonous press in the '90s. However, it should be mentioned that Cingel, through his activities in the society of architects at the County Office for Spatial Planning, where he had been employed for 11 years by many HDZ's men, had become insolent by insisting on respecting the laws and procedures. The last time the architects' company sent an open letter to the mayor of Osijek why they did not rebel against the announcement of the city's 6 hectares of the former factory and left-hand district, and by the Osijek-Baranja County that had already made similar planning usurpation for the city centre and the new KBC area when the city also fell without a shot. And that question is open and as a topic in the county assembly. And that's when Cingel gets the D.O.R.A.'s indictment, which calls for a police report that's only been sour for three months. The Prosecution of the Municipal State Attorney's Office calls for no less or less the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination Article 25, which, by the way, is the intended penalty of 5 to 30 000 kuna and claims that Cingel's offensive text of one sentence has hurt the sense of dignity of the defenders and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy municipal prosecutor Zeljko Ivanusic, who took over the case on behalf of the state, said that Cingel in his status expressed extreme disrespect for all those citizens who consider Operation Storm besides Operation Bljesak a decisive and crucial victory, and that it is particularly controversial that the status was published on Homeland Thanksgiving, thus showing disrespect for the holidays and injuring the feelings of the great majority of citizens, and particularly the participants of the Storm as well as all citizens of whose national and social groups belong to the defendant and themselves. The irony is that the spirit and meaning of Article 25 are completely perverted, whose idea is that someone should not be harassed or discriminated because of political conviction. The prosecutor, however, turns this into an interpretation that causes the injury of someone’s dignity to be made up in an insult by the fact that Cingel has dared to think otherwise. We hope that as Viktor Ivancic invites the judge of the Osijek Municipal Court to the debate, which will be held on 18 February, he will simply wrinkle the indictment and throw it into the basket. But the diagnosis is there, and perhaps it was best summed up by Ivancic. The meaning of the whole venture is perfectly clear. This is Karamark's impulse – the urge to return the verbal delinquent within the framework of regular court practice. It is necessary to criminalise mental misdemeanors, to reject the trinity of freedom of speech and other democratic rights recorded even in the Croatian Constitution. A package of war myths and legends that are not allowed to be desecrated in a public community should be established. In the shortest police and judicial engagement, it is necessary to strengthen and make a binding state of mind that, in Croatia, it has long been overcome by patrician idiotism. For the end, Tudjman would be pleased, and Karamarko would laugh sweetly as long as we got there without him. The workers' front certainly, to a man who dares to think differently gives full support, and we hope that this support will be given to all those who swear to freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83675	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Milan Vrkljan speaking on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83676	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the Assembly. I will talk to the Fair Croatian Club today about the problems of the Croatian Energy System where we have witnessed that in recent months there has been a collapse of the Croatian energy system and the question of how much Croatia is possible and whether it is energy independent and whether there is a responsibility of the current policy in this regard. It's interesting that 2018. the EU Directive 1999/18 has come in which the Republic of Croatia is asked to amend the legal framework for the production of electricity and that the Republic of Croatia must allow the production of electricity in households through personal household needs. It is interesting that the EU, the paradox is that the EU is the one that protects the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the legislation of the Republic of Croatia which this parliament has voted. The government has completely stepped down, does not support its citizens, and this is seen through several examples. Let's say HEP had a profit in the last year, a net profit of 1.2 billion kuna in the last six years. In the term of this government, HEP had a clear profit, an extra profit, which shouldn't actually be pursued, it's a kind of tax, of 7 billion kuna. The government spent 5.5 years in this term. All 7 billion kunas completely non-transparent. It is not invested in creating Croatia's energy independence, not a single kuna. Croatia today as it was 6 years ago. imports 25 to 50% of electricity depending on how many rainy days we had last year. It is paradoxical that one Slovenia in its system has 9,000 solar units in their households, we know that they are three times smaller than us and economically and by the number of inhabitants, and Croatia has only or slightly less than a thousand households that have solar units, which would mean that Croatia should have almost 30,000 independent solar units on our roofs of our fellow citizens. This extra profit generated by HEP in the last 6-7 years. If we had turned it into an investment of solar energy we could have made all of Dalmatia, 350,000 households would have placed solar panels on the roofs of their homes and led to Croatia having 30% of the entire independent population on any energy problems and our imports of electricity would have fallen by 30%. However, the EU directive protects the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, we, who are here at the assembly, protect the import lobby for electricity, investment in wind power plants where the HBOR financially monitors taxpayers' money building wind power plants in which the Croatian economy does not move by 1%, simply in these wind plants there is not a single pattern produced in the Republic of Croatia. We stimulate gas and oil imports and directly damage our citizens and our economy, while at the same time investing in solar energy enables 30% less electricity imports, domestic economy growth, job creation. This is the first step towards the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia and what is most important is one of the strongest demographic measures that can be implemented in Croatia. There are preconditions for the solar revolution in Croatia, such as the will of the Croatian government, the knowledge of the minister-in-chief, the work of institutions for the general good and the creation of an entrepreneurial climate. None of these assumptions in the Republic simply exist. For this reason, the Justice Club of Croatia strongly supports the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU institutions, entering Schengen, introducing the euro, making a strong connection with NATO allies and creating and implementing all EU directives. We are strong against the devastion of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, as well as corruption, nepotism and crime. Because of this situation, the main blame lies with the government of the Republic of Croatia who has no vision, has no knowledge, protects stakeholders and creates an energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately blames our voters, those who 51% of those who have not gone to elections for years and allow this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83717	We will now hear the 8th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, and will speak to the esteemed colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83718	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have been discussing price growth for a long time and today it has been said here and it is clear to all of us that prices are growing unconstitutional and that the state must intervene. Certain measures have been taken, but we are still more in the zone of announcements and less in the zone of taking concrete measures. All estimates of possible increases suggest that the impact on our citizens will be great, and on those most sensitive, so on our pensioners and socially endangered citizens and executed. Of course, EU countries have recognised this and have already set off with a whole series of very serious and very concrete social measures in their countries. The government has more solutions ahead of it, but some of them are completely obvious, and they are fast and relatively easy to implement. The first measure, of course, is the reduction of VAT on gas, which the government has in some ways also announced by calculating the reduction in VAT rates to 13%. There I would like to point out one fact that certainly our citizens do not know enough, which is that the north of Croatia is in this context in one more significant unfavourable position than the rest of Croatia. Why? Because the gas network covers mainly continental Croatia, and almost entirely north of Croatia, while for example, as far as southern Croatia is concerned, they are heating and cooling mostly on electricity in summer, and as we know, electricity has already been in 2017, so the VAT on electricity has been reduced to 13%. That's what we're announcing now and what we're discussing about gas. In particular, in Varazdin County 90% of households, but also the industry on which the total economy and our jobs depend on gas, so the gas network is 90%, we're 90% on gas. We are already in this context, so for a long time in a more unfavourable position and with the rise in gas prices it will naturally put us all in the north in an entirely unsustainable position both citizens and the total economy. In this time, primarily politically conditioned increase in energy prices is necessary to bring the VAT rate down to 5%, so that is the lowest possible level we can have in Croatia, so the VAT rate rate gas 5%. So, objectively, by reducing to 13%, and taking into account today's rise in the prices of the countries, in essence, do not deny anything but additionally reinforced full budget by calculating it, of course, shift it all to our citizens. There are, of course, business owners, especially small entrepreneurs, and this opens up an additional blow to our citizens because of course they will calculate all their energy costs in the prices of their products and services, so that our citizens will feel it not only on payments for directors but also on all other product and service accounts. And here we come to another key problem with energy prices, which is the price of food products. Because unlike most EU members where the share of food and energy in budgets is lower than 30% in Croatia, the price of food and energy is 42% in domestic budgets, and food and high 27%, the EU average is 12%. It is therefore necessary that government measures also ensure a reduction of VAT on food, at least on key foods, also to 5%, and that certain EU countries have already announced others. These measures can, of course, be limited duration, we will see how the situation develops, but it is crucial that we go with them immediately and thus reduce the impact on our citizens as a first step, especially on the pensioners and on the socially endangered because they will not be able to withstand this increase in energy and food prices. And secondly, which is also important, to reduce and calm down this more comprehensive fever of pricelifting, of course, of which some are raised justly, and some are raised preventively and because here everyone else raises prices is often the case with some products and services. Here are the concrete, very concrete proposals for reformers and, of course, we expect the government to act immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83728	We are going to 12 debates, on behalf of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, a respected colleague of Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83729	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is my great honor today that after one year after I promoted the Covid Supplement from this booth I get from the second largest opposition club recognition that Covid is a good addition. My proposal was much more extensive than what the associations negotiated in their desire to take pictures and shake hands with the prime minister, so they halved this amount I presented here, but all in all, the Covid Supplement was recognised here today by another opposition club. I am also pleased that my colleagues from the SDP after a year and a half with each other's quarrels, who were the weakest in society, who were workers with small salaries and pensioners and their pensions. And I'm glad, I'm glad they're defending their better standards. But no matter what I think of me and the pensioners and the other citizens, I have to say my position, my opinion on the pension system, and what's good in those proposals, there's bad. And not to forget, at the first parliamentary majority meeting this year, I initiated a search for a solution for the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and among them is the largest number of pensioners and that is what I will stand for. It is done and will be included in the entire range of solutions to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now, what's okay, the support is in some form, in some model by the opposition Covid supplement modeling the Covid supplement, okay. Let's just say that I appreciate them here and I commend them for finding one already in practice solution and supporting it. But I expected they might find something innovative because I see it in part of their appearances of a big mistake. They argue, and the Social Democratic Party is big and should know and know the pension system that the formula is guilty of this is not the level of retirement. The formula was created in 2014 in the coalition government and we presented it as a major improvement which, formula 70 30 for a more favourable, more favourable parameter, or for a larger, larger parameter, whether these are the cost of life or growth, the growth of wages. And now all of a sudden she's no good. Look, you can use this formula that you suggested 5% of the price rise, but nobody will, because nobody in Europe does. But what's going to happen, what's going to happen to the average peace 275,000 pensioners, the lowest beneficiaries of the lowest pension of which is 1,750 kuna times 17 kuna times 5% to what we're going to get 80 kuna. The one who has 5,000 kuna times 5% will receive 250 kuna. So, according to your proposal, only the gaff between the poor pensioners and those with higher incomes is increasing. Is that, is that a model we need to accept? I'm telling you that this formula is among the best in Europe, the problem is that it enters, into the items being observed, into the collection of products. So it's not the formula that's the problem, it's what's going on inside it, it's what's being calculated as consumption, the consumption of pensioners. Yes, the drop in shares, the decline in the average pension rate in the average salary is evident, however, is something else. The increasing number of lowest pensions, meaning low wages, the escrow of contributions, the small payment of contributions, large payments or solid payments of non-taxable salaries, all of which makes our pension less and less every day. We have a lot of proportionate pensions, an increased number of payments abroad, and they don't go in with a full amount, or with an entire internship into our average pensions. So, you should argue about it very, very strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83730	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure who answered, I don't know? Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83731	Mr. President, I believe that Mr. Hrelja's colleague has injured Rule 238 by demeaning SDP representatives and in the sense that we do not know that the formula of this new indexation of pensions would be fatal to the pensioners. That's just not true. I believe that Mr. Hrelja knows very well that almost all European countries have long left pension coordination with salaries, but they do so according to the cost of living. And you know it very well, and this formula goes into it. [[Intruder President: Fellow Voter Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u83732	You know very well that you have injured the Rules of Procedure what your colleague Hrelja said. If that were a warning, then you'd probably have to warn all your colleagues so far because there's always been criticism at the expense of others, so please don't be so sensitive. I have to give you a warning now. Thank you. We've come to an end with a view, so we're going to move to the first item of the agenda now. It is - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 190. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to present, on behalf of the motionor, the final draft of the law, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90918	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, as told before us, is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Since the scales of the changes are very few I will only take the opportunity to initially remind myself of the very theme and the very nature of the law. In fact, the banking union itself, which was created in response to the financial crisis in 2008, was founded with the main objective of ensuring the resilience and stability of the banking sector in the euro area, i.e. also to ensure the resolution of banks without the use of taxpayers' money and with a minimal impact on the real economy. It involves 3 pillars of which 2 are active, one is a single supervisory mechanism and the other is a unique recovery mechanism. The third pillar, which should be set up by the end of 2024, has established a common system of guaranteeing the deposits themselves. As far as the sanity mechanism is concerned, it operates through a single recovery committee, the national resolution authorities with us are the CNB for credit institutions, the HANFA for financial corporations and the HAO that runs the resolution fund with that trust fund itself. As regards the Single Sanitary Committee, it acts as a resolution body for all institutions under the direct supervision of the European Central Bank. A single recovery fund, as a matter of fact, at the level of the banking union, has been established with the aim of ensuring the effective application of the rehabilitation instruments and the uniform financing of resolutions in the banking union, and we know that from the crisis in 2008, it can come, not only that there is always a certain spillover so that a particular financial crisis in one country in one part of the world has become too much of the rest. As regards the applicable Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions, he entered into force early last year, of course, entering the European Course Mechanism, we also made certain commitments. It is also this way, and we continue to bring Croatia's legislation further into line with the EU acquis or directives and regulations. the risk mitigation package or RRM measures. By doing so, as I have said, a new division has also been established so that the CNB controls credit institutions that are not controlled by the European Central Bank, which are actually 6 of the largest banks and the SB controls three other housing savings banks. The other 14 of the 20 are under direct supervision of the CNB as well as the body carrying out the recovery. HanFA, like I said, oversees investment companies, we currently have 2. Of course, the previous DAB has now become HAOD and he is running funds to fund a recovery where we base and pay this law into a single recovery fund but also a deposit insurance fund from that basic 1% to an additional 1.5% where we are slightly above that proposed and 2.5%, respectively, so we have over 5 billion kuna in terms of the security of the deposit itself. Of course, we also have that part of all the insurance of individual savings stakes up to EUR 100,000, etc. As regards the final amendment proposal and the bill itself, it ensures better application in practice of the applicable law through these few amendments which have been shown after we entered into further communication, coordination and development as I mentioned that the target was the end of 31.12.'24. to establish a single recovery fund. Then we coordinate these additionally and normically but also really some changes and additions to better comply with those measures, or regulations and themselves, with the law that regulates it. Therefore, as regards the specific part of the decision on the recovery programme, what has been established for the institution that is responsible for the Single Sanitation Committee must also make a formal decision to move in the recovery procedure because if it is found that the institution is going to fail or is likely to fail, and there is, of course, a public interest in the resolution other than the Single Sanitation Committee, the CNB must make a decision and therefore a formal legal decision not only for those who are under its jurisdiction but also for those who are not and therefore this is one of the major changes in order not to make a distinction between the institutions and entities directly responsible for which the Single Resuscitation Committee and those for which it is not. The further amendment is made to this amendment and the addition of the law shall ensure equal treatment in practice with regard to the determination of the conditions which precedes the application of the powers to reduce the value or to convert the relevant instruments of capital and liabilities. Therefore, this law initially established certain requirements and conditions that all banks or credit institutions must meet.../incomprehensible/... requirements and MRLs as regards the value of capital and liability coverage. Therefore, this is precisely the case with regard to the determination of the terms and conditions of.../incomprehensible/... obligation of significant and minor credit institutions, given that such a determination for significant institutions is carried out by the European Central Bank as a competent authority. As a result, the definition of the relevant body is also changed in order to, in fact, imply the CNB and the HANFA as the competent authority. There is a normative change in order to have absolutely unequivocal meaning as they carry out as a competent body, not a resolutional body. So do we have two pillars of one jurisdiction, and the other one is rescinded so there's no confusion. Furthermore, in order to ensure that credit institutions and investment firms subject to the regulation pay exclusively the contributions calculated by the single recovery committee on the basis of the annual target level of the single recovery fund and the target level of the total of what I mentioned in '24. In the year 68 billion EUR, an appropriate amendment to the article of the applicable law, which prescribed the target level of the national fund, has been made so that absolutely only the decision of the Single Sanantia Committee is applied directly to our institutions. With the entry of RRM 2 and the European Banking Union, we made our commitment of EUR 89 million at the end of 2020, which we paid, and now we will follow each year. In addition, what is ultimately, this draft law harmonises the expressions of articles that regulate certain uses of the sales instrument, etc., others, other nomotechnical changes. There were no changes between the two readings regarding the content. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90919	I thank the Secretary of State. Let's go to the replicas, first of all, dear colleague Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90920	Good afternoon. It is clear to me that officials whose state subsidized housing with 7,000 kunas do not have problems on national television say that they find it a little strange that we call for egalitarianism and that we are all equal, so they will have no problems with that law, but those who do not think that banks should be saved while domestic economy and industry expose themselves to this brutal competition will have some objections to this law. But I'm going to say one thing or ask you a question of what and how, exactly, in which mathematically and economically way did this amount of 1% of the secured deposits occur, which guarantees that 1% of the secured deposits means enough amount to get rid of therefore the banks that are in trouble? Isn't that basically just a confirmation that ownership of these banks will eventually be held back no matter what, and that those who are having problems like our business industry exposed to that market? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90921	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90922	I'll ignore this comment first. It's not free to discuss it on another topic. As far as this 1% is concerned, we have more protection models. What I've said is the main goal is to ensure through the very instruments and objectives that are to bring down the tax bonds as little as possible. So it's not just a thing we have in these laws we've introduced a new bail-in possibility that with your own bank owner's money conducts a recovery. We also have the exception of 1% of the minimum of liabilities in the recovery fund we have those 2.5% of what I said about the deposit insurance obligation that protects depositors so I think that's very enough because it's not done in the fund system that it's going to be used for all at once. It's used for an institution that's looking for it or it could get into a situation. So the goal of this is to put less burden on the citizens, the less taxpayers don't at all and that's what What you saw from your experience in 2008. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90923	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90924	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would be ashamed to propose in your place any law or amendments to the laws relating to the resolution of credit institutions of investment companies after what has happened to banks in Croatia in the last 30 years. I'll remind you, so the Croatian state rescheduled banks in the late 1990s, early 2000s, and then sold them for nothing to foreigners. So, who are you guessing? This law should not only be amended or amended, it should be declared completely invalid. So that law needs to be liquidated. We help foreign banks, let's be very objective. For what? We help them, resuscitate them, try to resuscitate them, or promise to resuscitate them so that they can continue to exploit Croatian workers. So they should be on the market just like, under the same conditions as outside, and this law and amendments are just another proof that Croatia is nothing more It's a colony. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not the sovereign state that you're not ashamed of at all [[Thank you very much.]] suggest. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90925	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90926	Well, now I have to say that I'm a little confused because I should be ashamed that we're suggesting that banks have to pay a premium in a fund to get rid of, not citizens, but banks. In a recovery fund and in a deposit insurance fund so that their own money can be recovered at the expense of the owner in case there is an event. This is the meaning of these regulations, which we are transposing and ensuring application at European Banking Union or EU level. So, it doesn't come up here, so we're here to ensure that citizens are protected, so that there is no spillover since the owners of most of our banks are party to ensure equal application in all Member States, not to drag them out of Croatia to be rescheduled elsewhere. That's the point. Not that someone's rescheduling a bank that's in Germany and has a branch here with money from Croatia, but with money from all over Europe, with their money, not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90927	Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90928	So Article 238, so this is a faceless lie. So, is Croatia an EU member? What you're talking about, you're talking about money from EU Member States, so we're a member of the EU. Which 1%, so don't play those rhetorical engravings and think we're all stupid so nobody listens to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90929	My colleague, Whitey, you're getting a warning. This was a replica. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90930	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, so just for the sake of the citizens who are watching this no matter what they are ashamed of or not ashamed of, some others should be ashamed of some things and not be ashamed of themselves. Banks, DAB, CNB, SB, so we have a system and what I'm interested in with regard to the data you've given, which was a criterion for us to single out these six banks and three savings banks, not compared to these 20 that we have in total. So 14 banks aren't here. What will happen for our citizens to know in case there are certain problems within these institutions, which they can count on in view of their deposits and what their insurance is that will be remedied i.e. that he will always be able to dispose of his deposits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90931	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90932	Here I'm just thinking about the core of the question, which determines actually the core of this law. It means how, how and what it's done to secure citizens and their deposits. That's the meaning of this law, though the law is about recovery means if the bank came into trouble with business how can people who have deposits in these banks be sure? I can be sure of course of a number of other laws which are individually secured up to 100,000 euros. The bank itself is paying, it must meet very strict requirements, so the requirements that talk about capital coverage, the requirements that talk about paying the bank into funds, funds for recovery by so-called. model... means that money used by the bank itself when it comes to difficulties and in total means we also have a Deposit Insurance Fund that is currently in Croatia at the level of more than 5 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what a citizen needs to know is that by entering the European Banking Union, by entering this system they have safer and secure their deposits, but also safer only the business of banks. Because it's not just a matter of deposit, it's also a question of the financial stability of a country or space.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90933	Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90934	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here's the clue, so this debate of yours with my colleague, Boric, I think it's good to take this opportunity to give more to Croatian citizens in some way what this means. So, the Republic of Croatia, in addition to entering the rehabilitation mechanism, which was established by the Single Renaissance Board of these amendments and the amendments to the law, is therefore still being introduced by a newspaper related to the resolutional powers, i.e. they are being distributed between the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. So that creates another additional control, another additional mechanism so that our citizens can know that everything that is passed by this law goes in the direction of their security, in the direction of their insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90935	Here you go. Just a second. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90936	238. I still have to react. So they tell real lies and you can't You don't have to, let it go and let me go. [[/Intruder President: What has been injured please fellow Peovic. Wait a minute.]] You can't talk here to get here.../Intruder President: Just a little fellow Peović stop. [[/The incursion president: No, no, no. Wait a minute.]] There are rules to the game. I won't let you go. You have to say which article was injured, which was injured. What's hurt? Disdaining the MPs. Here you go. Let's get this over with. So you can't say that this is where you protect Croatian citizens and their deposits when we have examples. You mean as in Greece as it was protected, as in Croatia it was protected when we rescheduled the banks with 56 billion, then sold them for 16 billion. Do not deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90937	My colleague Peovic, you are being warned and from now on I will be giving warnings during exposure and taking away the word, because this has nothing to do with it. This is a pure replica. You don't like what my colleague Mazhar said, like he didn't like what you said, so he didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure then. This is Parliament where people express their views. They're different, you belong to different options, political parties, and don't do that. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90938	Thank you. Then all I could do is relate to the very objectives of the recovery, obviously there are some passing points. Therefore, it has some five basic objectives to ensure continuity of key functions, to avoid a greater adverse impact on financial stability, to specifically extend to the financial system, to protect public funds so that, to the minimum, they can be relied on to rely on exceptional public financial support, which was the case of the 2008 Bailouts. The protection of depositors who have secured deposits and investments, the protected system of investors, what I was saying about each individual citizen and the protection of the assets and assets of clients. It means that when we talk about operations that financial institutions are doing on the capital market where they invest their money. So it's all one pyramid system that we absolutely have to take care of and protect, with this and we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90939	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90940	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The question, given that we have reached this limit, means very specifically did the banks today stop paying that money? Did they stop paying him into this guarantee fund? And this second question is about these 90 million euros you said. It goes, that's what actually goes through this DAB into this unique recovery fund and whether it's already defined linearly that every year it's going to go that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90941	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90942	Here's a concrete question, a concrete answer. As for both funds, all conditions are met and no more, for the moment there is no obligation to pay the premium by banks. As far as the Sanantia Fund is concerned, we have paid a little more than 89m euros at the end of 2020, and every year, we will also align with the needs of the percentage as the total assets grow, thus increasing and these obligations. So we meet all the criteria even on the basis of deposit insurance we have a little more than the projected 2 and a half percent, so that on the other hand Croatian citizens and when we talk about capitalisation and liquidity of banks that over 206% have an extremely stable financial system regarding the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90943	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90944	Dear colleague, I will rely on what my colleague Lalovac asked who paid these 86 and 90 million euros, respectively, whose payment obligation is one percent of this amount. If this report of yours is read, the Republic of Croatia says. The Republic of Croatia was estimated to have paid and paid 1% of the secured deposits. This means that the Republic of Croatia has paid. In your speech, you said it was the bank's payment. Another thing that should be mentioned here is that Croatian citizens don't really change anything. There's nothing more secure than they've been so far. So they are still provided with the same savings in banks that are in the Republic of Croatia, so I have to admit Croatian citizens do not get anything from this. This gives the EU a de facto monetary system, i.e. the banking system where we, as the Republic of Croatia, keep the entire banking system from playing with risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90945	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90946	I think the answer to the first question will immediately answer the second question. So they were paid by HAOD, former DAB, so the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, which collected the funds from the banks themselves. So we're not talking about public funds, budget funds, we're talking about the funds that he's been collecting through the premium. This total for 2016, 2020 was 89 million euros for, say, 2021, this was estimated for an additional 138 million kuna by the Single Sanancies Committee. Thus, consequently this second part of the story, taxpayers, the Croatian budget does not suffer any financial expenditure in terms of insurance, i.e. the very funds for the recovery fund, but certainly the profits are indirect to the citizens because the stability of one bank, the stability of one financial system is being shed to other levels, so that it is aimed at ensuring this long-term, long-term stability of the financial system itself. As a result, they remain the same conditions for the insurance of deposits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90947	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90948	My dear secretary, we've heard similar questions many times today. I am interested, given that it is defined that the Single Renaissance Fund must be at least 1% and that each year, in fact, the new amount that needs to be paid into that fund, which is the possibility of being a minimum amount, is that defined somewhere by the minimum amount for the payment, or what is the maximum amount for the payment in percentages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90949	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90950	I therefore thank the Single Renaissance Committee on the basis of the very value, i.e. the amount of assets or capital of individual banks and secured funds, means how much funds are placed, so percentageally, or relatively, they must also have an amount for their own resolution if they come into difficulties, that, in a Colloquitically speaking about 1%, this can be one year 0.8, one year 1 and 2, but realistically, this is decided on the basis of all or the deposits of all credit institutions in the EU because it is done at the level of the banking union itself. So it can result in us being sometimes more, sometimes less, looking at 1% of all, and then when it's transferred to the absolute that amount is... And it can vary from 0.8 to 1.2, and it certainly won't be bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90951	Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90952	Thank you. Mr. Churi, I have two questions for you. Does the Government have any awareness that it is necessary to design a different system of supervision and control of the work of the CNB as a regulator, since this amendment of the Law makes it necessary to amend it in order to improve the application of the law in practice. And why is that? Because it was found that when the Single Renaissance Board decided as a resolution body for those entities for which it was directly responsible, it did not actually have jurisdiction in the Croatian legal area, so the CNB simply prescribed and re-described decisions already made by the single resolution body. In other words, our CNB no longer has an independent jurisdiction. I ask the question, who controls and how the regulators? And the second question, who will define what significant institutions are or less significant institutions since the law does not describe these terms any closer, so we enter the area of arbitration and discretion. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90953	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90954	The first answer to the question, so as far as the CNB is concerned, it is an independent body by the decision of this House to report to this House, so we cannot as a ministry have the authority to work alone, influence the work of the CNB itself. As regards the system, therefore the CNB will sit in part of the European Central Bank and those relating to institutions managed on the basis of data that are generally relevant banks, this is what these 6 said, they are under the direct supervisory supervision of the European Central Bank and 3 savings banks, and in the way of decision-making is seen that we need a formal decision by both the CNB and those who are not directly competent or directly implement the resolution and that is the change. Who's gonna control that? Mechanisms at EU level and at the level of this House are controlled, as regards the work of the CNB itself and the work of the European Central Bank itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90955	And the last line, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It should once again be pointed out that the Croatian Member State is a participant in the Single Rehabilitation Mechanism. So with the amendments to the laws that have been going on since '15, '19, '20, and so on, they've actually been structured and these decisions. What I would like you to repeat again, who is paying in the JSF, so who are they, so legal persons, or banks, and why it is so constructed, since this very fund, which at EU level makes huge capital, creates one potential for any future crisis, and here we see what this means for the next generation itself, so the potential for the resolution of potential damages is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90957	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90958	Here's a thank you. So it's directly paid by the banks themselves, so they're bonds of payments to the restitution fund, such as payments to the deposit insurance fund. This is what we have, the body implemented by the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the former DAB that collects it at the annual level based on the decision of the Single Sanitary Committee, and then it makes a payment to the JSF with this goal to avoid the 2008 situation in which we have not remained immune, as regards the economic crisis, and the crisis has begun from the financial sector, the EU has recognised, in order to protect against external, when we speak outside the EU, financial influences and to protect our own economy and Member States' own budgets, that the burden is just being transferred to the banks themselves, that they are paying all in solidarity in terms of each of their obligations, and is used when that amount total for each bank when it comes to problems and, in fact, with their own funds and certain instruments are being recovered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90959	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Just before we begin the debate, a colleague of the Grmoys called, I'm guessing he's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90960	So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club in view of the scandalous information published yesterday in public, so where the governor of the CNB received a prize from the Hungarian central bank, which his Austrian counterpart refused. So this shows that the body, meaning the independent body, as the secretary of state called it, the CNB that implements monetary policy, but also cares about price stability, controls the work of credit institutions, has the head of a man who can't protect his integrity and independence and who we can no longer believe has no impact on him that foreign states, which credit institutions, which is a variety of private interests. I remind you that this governor was appointed by this ruling majority in the wake of football euphoria when the Croatian football team was delighted with its performances by the Croatian nation and that by today, here came the information yesterday, I think enough time to show the ruling majority about the scandalous fact. I don't think we can discuss either credit institutions or Croatia's entry into the euro zone until the ruling one is seen. I also ask the question why would the Croatian people trust this ruling majority and this governor who at the moment of the greatest inflation push us into the euro zone, why would we believe that this is a suitable moment. I'm looking for immediate clearance and the secretary of state and the ruling majority of this scandalous information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90961	The flat is approved, but in accordance with Article 293b. We will continue to work and I will call on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front fellow Peovic for an exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90962	So this is really what this is about, saving foreign banking institutions and not looking at the benefit of people living in Croatia at all. But it's not like some people think it's a direct payment from our 1% budget, it doesn't go from banks, but it's a question. So this unique recovery mechanism why we think 1% would be a sufficient amount that banks should invest in that recovery fund to get rid of, we know that the crises are coming globally, to get rid of I don't know how many banks. The second question is how do we determine these privileged banks that will be there big to fail, which will therefore have this, this moral gambling so-called. So they'll gamble more on the foreign market because they know that the property of these banks will never change. Well, there's no possibility that if the state resuscitates banks to nationalize these banks then, the owner is safe no matter what. And now we pretend here that we don't know, you rehabilitating mechanisms, so these guarantee policies. It's as if we don't know how the crisis is happening again and I don't know we had Basel I and Basel II and Basel III all going on in the same bubble of promise that this mechanism is now safe and that no one will ever fail again, and yet the banks fail as if we don't remember that Croatia has rescheduled 25 billion kuna banks and then sold them to privates for 16 billion, as if we don't know that Greece had to rescind foreign banks, right? So written by a difficult-to-understanding bureaucratic technology jargon, this law represents a classic alignment with the EU's acquis and primarily refers to the accession of the Republic of Croatia, so-called "RH". is the single rehabilitation mechanism, which is the name for the system set up by the European Central Bank after the 2008 crisis, and especially after the Greek crisis. It is a system whose foundation is a single recovery fund managed by a single recovery fund, which is considered to be large enough to have their uncontrollable collapse, thus saying the wider negative effects on the financial system in general on the economy, in the translation of banks that are too big to fail. The introduction clarifies that the fund should be filled with a minimum 1% of the secured deposits of all the institutions to which the law applies at EU level remain completely unclear. How did this figure come to light, according to which account did he conclude that such a sum could be sufficient for the recovery of large banks threatened by bankruptcy? But the more important issue is the fact that it is not excluded that the state will have to jump into the recovery of large banks owned by their owners, creditors and depositors if they are threatened by bankruptcy, which is a practice that is actually institutionalised by such laws at EU and European monetary union level, and that Croatia fully accepts this because by ruling us at all costs, they intend to introduce us into the euro area and then it is said that the responsibility is transferred to the CNB as if it is not an exposition of actually European policies, rather than domestic policies. If she hadn't then held a stable exchange rate, it wouldn't have been her primary interest instead of her interest to encourage exports to target exchange rates and to encourage employment. It should therefore be recalled that by adopting such a law and joining an institutional framework, Croatia accepts the position and interests of large banks in foreign ownership in the interests of domestic production, a domestic industry for which there are no rehabilitation mechanisms when they are threatened by bankruptcy. So this is also about the question of the so-called question. moral gambling because big banks know that they'll be rehabilitated if they're threatened by bankruptcy, and then they'll be more likely to be less careful, less careful about the risk of placements. This only shows our colonial position where we adopt an institutional framework that cares about foreign financial interests, and which it pulls out annually, I will remind you of more than 4 to 6 billion kunas of net profits from Croatia, not of development interests and preserve and strengthen domestic production. Moreover, such a law and an institutional framework clearly imply that the recovery of large banks will not entail the nationalisation of the banking system but will seek to maintain the existing private ownership structure and its consistent management policy and objectives, no matter how contrary it is to the development interests of domestic economy and population through primary lending of consumption by borrowing the population, and significantly more restrictive production for needs. Therefore, this law does not only enable the state to pay off the French and German creditors of their largest banks in Greece in the event of a threat to one or more taxpayers' bankruptcy and to increase public debt, but also to the extent that it had to be done by the bank in order to pay off the French and German creditors of their largest banks in Greece, it already shows that it should be, that it should be done and that if the funds of the Single Sanantia Fund are insufficient or if the Single Renaissance Committee does not approve them. Let's remind Greece that after it resuscitated foreign banks, the public debt and deficit grew significantly, so the troika squeezed it to carry out so-called. is the austerity measure. But a similar situation happened in Croatia in '97, '98, when we rescheduled the banking system that I already said with 56 billion kuna and then sold it to foreigners for 12 to 16 billion. So banks are fully protected while the rest of society must accept these risks of the market. In this regard, it should be said that this whole premise on recovery mechanisms is based on the assumption that unlike all previous crises, new mechanisms guaranteeing much greater security mean everything is secured even though in previous cases such guarantees have been a general place and nothing has changed in the world of financialised capitalism since then. It should be mentioned that Basel, which was Basel I, so Basel II, Basel III, means mechanisms regulatory that swear that things would be safer. Let's remind ourselves that the CNB under the Basel II regulatory regime also reacted to the collapse of the Rijeka Bank where its foreign exchange dealer made a loss of $100 million that no one had noticed, nor did the CNB, while the president of the Rijeka Bank administration, Ivan Stokic, received the award for the best manager of the year and paid for the bonuses. We also remember in the case of Hypo Alpe Adria banka HNB did not indicate that there were malversions involving top political officials such as Sanader, Pasalic, Zagorc and others. So the adoption of this framework just confirms our autocolonial nature where completely non-critical approaches are taken over and existing frameworks are being taken over. We announce that this is a law that we will not support because it is a series of similar alignments with EU directives but that do not guarantee any security for the social majority but only for foreign banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90963	The second club of MPs will be HDZ and will be spoken by respected counterpart Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90964	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies submitted by the government in order to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with EU legislation. Content of the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms is governed by the rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, the powers and tasks of the resolution and competent authorities shall be regulated and the management, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund shall be regulated. We, just over a year ago, adopted amendments and additions to the law in question, which included part of the risk reduction package, and which also brought national legislation in line with the EU acquis. In this way, further reform of the banking system at national and EU level has continued with a view to further strengthening its resilience and bank capacity to respond to possible shocks. It is recalled that the 2008 financial crisis that we have recovered from for 10 years, and perhaps even for several years, has shown that there has been a significant lack of instruments at EU level to effectively address the problem of failing credit institutions and investment firms, which has led to a series of acts aimed at establishing a system that will provide the competent supervisory and resolution authorities of EU Member States with a set of tools, instruments for sufficient early and rapid intervention in a credit institution or investment companies that are failing or likely to fail, while at ensuring the continuation of key functions of these institutions while limiting the impact of their failures on the national or cross-border economic financial system to the minimum extent possible. And precisely because of this strong interlink between financial markets within the EU countries, the resolution of these problems by credit institutions was needed at EU level. So, what are these amendments and additions to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies arranged? The introduction already said that, while respecting the existence of several rehabilitation bodies, as well as the resolution and situation of the establishment of close cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Central Bank, the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the judiciary in the single banking union. And it is made up of a unique control mechanism and a unique recovery mechanism. In this regard, it is arranged for the CNB to assume the powers of resuscitation of credit institutions and for the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to supervise investment companies while the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency is the body run by the National Resiliency Fund. Furthermore, a single recovery mechanism which forms a single recovery committee and a single recovery fund, and by including the Republic of Croatia in a single recovery mechanism, implies and the responsibility of the single Sanantia Committee for the effective and consistent functioning of the single sanaci mechanism. In addition, the single resolution committee has become directly responsible for the exercise of the resolution powers over part of credit institutions, as already said, 6 banking institutions and 2 housing savings banks based in the Republic of Croatia. So, so far, we have had a situation when it comes to credit institutions and credit institutions' groups that the national resolution authority implements decisions and instructions of the single sanity committee. However, these legislative changes and additions reduce the number of resolution authorities which significantly facilitates and accelerates the procedure for the implementation of the rehabilitation powers between the resolution bodies within the Republic of Croatia, and in particular in cooperation with the Single Resilience Committee in the event of decisions taken by the Board for entities directly responsible for which it is directly responsible, but also in the decision-making process by the national resolution authorities. Prior to the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Single Renaissance Mechanism was carried out by preparatory actions which included communication with the Single Renaissance Committee, and in this communication there was an incorrect understanding of the legal effects of the decisions of the Single Sanitary Committee, in particular the impact of the decision on the recovery programme that the Single Resuscitation Committee makes for credit institutions under its direct responsibility, which was found to be failing or likely to fail, but there is a public interest in its recovery. Therefore, it was subsequently found that the CNB must, in fact, formally make a renewed decision on the recovery programme, not only to implement the implementing decisions, and because the decisions of the Single Sanitary Committee do not have a direct effect on credit institutions in the participating Member States, it must already give effect to those decisions by a national resolution authority. In this respect, as regards the legal effects of the decisions of the Unity Sanitary Committee, given that the same legal force should be given to the national resolution authority in order to have an effect on credit institutions, these amendments and additions to the law in question shall ensure that the CNB has powers over all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the direct responsibility of the Unity Sanitation Board in order to give these effects as a national resolution body. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the law in question are governed by the fact that there is no longer a distinction between institutions and entities directly responsible for the Single Resolution Committee and those institutions and entities for which it is not directly responsible, thus equating the practice regarding the division of credit institutions by the European Central Bank to those which are significant and to those which are less significant. In this context, the defined concept of the relevant body uses the term "competent Authority" instead of the terms of CNB or HANFA, and thus equalises the behaviour of significant credit institutions with the treatment of less significant institutions, and the CNB and HANFA are now in the capacity of the competent authority, not the Sanancies Authority. As regards the level of the Single Sanitary Fund, it shall be at least 1% of the amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in all Member States of the Banking Union. Each year following consultation with the European Central Bank or the national competent authority, and close cooperation with the National Renaissance Authority, the Unity Renaissance Board shall calculate the individual contributions that each credit institution must pay on the basis of the annual target level of the Unity Sanitary Fund. Therefore, the purpose is to provide, in addition to ensuring the resilience and financial stability of the banking sector, the means for the possible resolution of banks without the use of taxpayers' money, but by using the Single Sanitary Fund as an internal recovery instrument where credit institutions themselves provide their own funds in the event of the need for recovery. Finally, this final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law provides for a better nomotechnical arrangement of certain articles in the existing law. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90965	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today, we are facing a law that should be more of a technical nature, an implementing law when if there is a disturbance in the financial market, who, with which money, how to react, to actually protect, to save or to protect itself in the first place, is the very failure of the financial institution in the past that all of these were paid by taxpayers and Europe learned that lesson in 2008. She learned that lesson and actually started with a story of the banking union. It started with the story of the banking union to be a single banking union, which is why, is the great pressure that the banks caused by the 2008 crisis, the crisis that caused it, which has finally become a single bank union and on the burden of all citizens, has put the single currency of the euro at risk, has simply been paid for everything that was to be paid out of the budget, very much, so you see all the deficits of all the countries going to a number of minuses, and they said okay more there is no more, and the game for you in the financial markets, now we are going to introduce regulation and this is a final phase, and it is kind of regulatory that this is now going on the burden of banks, on those who are actually causing a particular crisis, and Europe has learned the first lesson regarding banks and we are introducing the euro next year, and this is becoming an official currency, and this is one way that we also having to bring this law to have a single European market. And why am I saying that this law is good for Croatia? Well, it's good because when you have international banks, and in Croatia there are international banks, Italian, Austrian and other banks. What could have been passed without this law, that there was no law? If the bank fails, now I'm caricing, in Italy, a disturbance in Italy has occurred. You know what that bank does first? So he withdraws funds from Croatia, withdraws funds from Croatia to resuscitate his bank, the parent bank in Italy. Is Croatia more exposed then? Well, of course she's more exposed. What kind of mechanisms do you have to prevent that capital from going to Italy? It is this law that states that there is a unique recovery, that there is no difference in which country there has been a disturbance in Italy, Austria. This is actually useful and good for small countries, for small countries is good. He can't escape the capital. You must resuscitate on the whole and thus protect and save in Croatia. That's why it's a single market, which gives us smaller ones who don't have enough capital to defend it. That is why this is good for Croatia and for the savings in Croatia. I say Europe learned a lesson and thus defended the euro. The second crisis that was in 2013, where the bonds were strong. You know, the Greeks owed 10%, the Spanish at 10%, the Irish, the Italians, the Germans at 1%. Croatia at the time when it issued the bond had some amount of 5.6% on the bond. Why has there been a riot in Europe of citizens? So they say you see the Germans are financed by 1%, we're ten. We have entered debt slavery, this is not a single European market, we do not want such a Europe where someone is ten times cheaper in debt than we are. You know there's been a story about the common euro bond. What did Europe say? And that was a lot of pressure on the euro. You can't have the euro, and you have different sources of funding per country. What did Europe do next? She started from 2013, fourteenth so-called Quantitative leasing, and what happened? That the offerings on all bonds are today at one percent, so among them Croatia. Croatia is also benefiting from the work of the European Central Bank, it is benefiting because we have previously borrowed, we have not, as number one, been unable to come to the euro market at all. I remember when we were in 2012, we couldn't issue the euro to the bond, we had to go to the dollars. And today we can at the time of lockdown when everything is closed because we are a full member and in this entire mechanism we can charge ourselves one percent. And that is the benefit that the EU brings together, the Central Bank brings to Croatia, a direct benefit. And there's actually all the countries you see that they've balanced the bonds, because they've threatened the euro again. And Europe has learned for the second time how to help all countries to keep their budgets from collapsing so much. Third, and that's why I'm going to go to the inflation situation today. He's jeopardizing the euro. Why the euro is at risk today. Well, because we have different energy policies at EU level. Some of them deal directly with the Russians, some of them buy on the stock market, some of them, some of them. What's going on in Europe? We do not have a common energy policy, and we see that energy is actually the main driver of inflation, and there is again a euro threat. What will be the consequence? Well, of course we'll get into the common energy policy. Europe will open the issue of a common energy policy and Croatia will contribute to the future. We can't fight alone on the market. Well, look, the government is going to find huge resources now, they're going to have to find help for the citizens. How can we? Because we can both commit and join, and ultimately because the current energy crisis is jeopardising the euro. He's at risk of inflation. So you have some European countries that have two-digit inflation. And that's going to be an extra step. They've solved the banking part, they've solved the bond issue, the third one's going to be a balance of energy policy. You see how wild energy prices in Europe are, they solve one thing, the other solve differently, they lower VAT, they give. No one knows how to react to this inflation problem. Europe will respond together because we are so small in that energy market that we cannot fight big players there. But we will be under the umbrella that in the future and energy prices, Europe cannot be dependent, and see what it means for Croatia. See what an inflationary blow means for gas prices, hosts, pensioners, etc. etc. where Croatia was absolutely not involved, it is not guilty of anything. She's not guilty of anything. The government has absolutely nothing to do with this, but we are part of it all, stories and speculation in all the world markets, where Europe will have to respond to energy policy. And then we're going to get in a few years, and we're going to get documents like we're talking about banking documents today, as we're talking about, we have common euro documents, so in a few years we're going to have documents on a common energy policy whatever it is I'm not going to go into whatever form it's going to define. But for the citizens, it's important that the price is low. From which sources, we hope from the green but the important thing is that it will be low and there will be no impact on the poor citizens. And that's the good we get in the world markets. We can't fight alone in this whole big story. And that's why I'm saying this SDP law club will support it. The good things are I say and we'll have the good news even though there will be a blow to the standard of citizens, the measures will be taken, we'll get out of that story. But I'm telling you, everything happens that when Europe finds crisis situations, because right now there's a major energy crisis in Europe, it's going to have to respond very quickly to common policies, and then it's going to be easier for certain governments to solve these issues, such as inflation and energy poverty, both in Croatia and in those countries that don't have enough of their own resources as much as we think we do, we don't have. Because you see a single blow like this, a priced blow to what's going on, what's the confusion on the market. Therefore, the SDP club will also support this law and any future laws that benefit the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90967	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS of the Honored Representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90968	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the thing about these financial matters, my colleague Lalovac, in very simple words, explains to the citizens what this is about. The Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies therefore regulates the rules, procedures, instruments for the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms, further defines some of the powers and tasks of the resolution and competent authorities, management, financing and use of the funds of the Sanantia Fund. So, this is a law establishing a risk-reduction system in the case of financial crises, banks are obliged to put part of their money in a recovery fund that will provide funds for this case if there is any need for the resolution of banks in the event of a problem with financial stability. So here, as we've heard, the goal is to avoid the financial crisis that happened in 2008. and not to shift the burden of resuscitation as in that case, whether it is to the citizens and the state budget that year, but to the banks. So, in 2008, There was also a threatened single currency, and therefore it was introduced and regulated at EU level to prevent such a crisis and that is why this law is really necessary for both Croatia and Croatian citizens. This proposal implements several amendments to the applicable law in order to ensure its better application in practice. In practice, it has been crystallised that the CNB has formally to decide on the opening of a recovery procedure for banks directly responsible by the Single Resuscitation Committee, because its decisions by that Unity Sanitation Committee are not, in fact, directly affecting the institutions of the participating Member States. The European Central Bank shall also ensure equal treatment in practice with regard to the determination of the conditions which precede it to apply the powers to reduce the value or convert the relevant instruments of capital and subject to obligations in relation to significant and minor credit institutions, as such determination is carried out by the European Central Bank. It is therefore further ensured that credit institutions and investment firms subject to the EU Regulation pay exclusively the contributions calculated by that Single Resuscitation Committee on the basis of the annual target level of the Single Sanitary Fund. Here is therefore a very simple law that once again represents one harmonisation with European regulation and European practice, and as we have heard it is really necessary for the citizens of Croatia to ensure that in some future financial crisis the burden of these financial crises and the recovery of banks does not fall on the back of Croatian citizens. But here I would take the opportunity to talk about our central bank, the CNB, given that this law introduces that the CNB must and formally make a decision to open a bank recovery process, means it is literally prescribed that the decision of the Single Sanantia Committee is not in charge of banks in the Member States, so here is the difference between some policy options or populists who have tried to get close to the people in a way that they're trying to speak here what the people want to hear, promote perhaps impossible and dangerous solutions, fiercely and attack and criticise the monetary policy that the CNB is managing. So, I don't know, we've heard all kinds of ideas in public before that maybe the CNB should and print money, and that's how our economy is going to get better. We have always been reasonable, we have criticised the CNB as an institution when it should have been and it was justified, we have pointed to this here and we often talk about how the CNB actually has a poor impact on the financial literacy of citizens, they have slowed down in the case of the Swiss franc, etc. Governor Vujčić has generally been known in public as an expert, a top professional, but the latest affairs are throwing a new light on that institution and in the year of preparation for Eurozon entry. These affairs say that the heads of the institution are not as careful and impeccable as it may have seemed before, they may have become too confident over time, you know how little you carry, and you think you can go unpunished with all kinds of incompetences. However, here we are living in a country that looks away at ethically questionable procedures, and so is the biggest scandal lately in the banking industry, in the banking sector where there has been stock trading, the securities of banks that the CNB oversees by CNB employees. It's like some kind of misunderstanding that's never gonna happen again, after it finally happens after 8 years. apply the recommendations of the European Central Bank and that practice strictly prohibits CNB employees. This scandal has also revealed a bigger problem, and this is a lack of internal controls in our central bank, and the question is how will control actually be carried out here in the course of the copying of the decisions of this Unique Sanantia Committee. Governor Vujčić himself found himself in another scandal, here's the media saying he's got half a million kuna in his pocket from the Hungarian Central Bank. The award was established by the Hungarian Central Bank in 2014, and a bright example by Austrian Governor Evald Novotni, who was the winner of that prize in 2015, who donated his 60,000-euro prize and refused to receive money from his own account, explained that he did not want to question the independence of the Austrian bank. On the other hand, he sent a strong message to the donor's choice, donated money to the university known for its support for the country's pro-democracy processes, so the choice of donation was also a strong criticism of Orban's government in Hungary. So that's a bright example our governor didn't follow, not to mention any other data now, I don't know about his salary, which is equal to the sum of the prime minister's and president's salary. However, here is the latest scandal with a dilettantly poorly conducted tendering procedure for the new euro coins, and we have already talked about this speaker. The competition was conducted without any professional instructions, without the support of a profession anyone with a drawing could literally report to on a napkin. If one CNB is unable to conduct such a professional tender for coin design according to the rules of the profession, which humiliated the entire profession. So, what do they expect from them on the regulation of the financial system. So, this law here, we further harmonize with EU practice, regulate the process of resuscitating banks, is necessary for our citizens, to protect our citizens. However, what has been worrying lately is the behaviour of the Croatian National Bank, which is as if on vacation, as if it had relaxed and fired all control mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90969	The debate follows on behalf of Green-Left bloc MP Urša Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90970	Thank you. Already in the first reading of the amendments and additions to this Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies as a Green-left bloc club, we have given support to all initiatives that try to regulate the bad financial operations of banks and other institutions, which have recently been very easy to collect to citizens. These amendments and additions to the laws continue to bring the domestic and European laws relating to the resolution of banks, i.e. the technical failures observed in the first year of law enforcement. A initiative for better regulation, rehabilitation and the establishment of citizens' defences against the poor business of financial institutions comes primarily from the EU and through the EU institutions are being translated into domestic legislation. In this regard, we would really like to see initiatives and proposals from our financial sector, as well as from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would strengthen the regulation of poor financial operations. Because it seems that the practice remains that for the bad business decisions made by the bank before bankruptcy, the responsible persons will be less accountable to the laws of the person who, for example, steals food in self-service. In this regard, we would like to see much more progressive changes and additions to this law that would prevent, for example, rewarding those responsible for the failure of the financial institution. Although these amendments are not aimed at this objective, we cannot notice that there are provisions in the original law itself that do not, for example, prevent the bank from entering and, of course, be paid by a person whose unwitting business has led to problems in that financial institution. It continues to be more clearly recognised and sanctioned in the recovery laws packages and in the original law, for example, that the first liability for damage caused by the restitutional administration or assistants of the resolution administration in the exercise of the duties under this law is stated in Article 66, for example, only if the damage is done on purpose or out of extreme negligence. And then comes the amazing paragraph 2 of that article, which says: "For the damage referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the Croatian National Bank or the Financial Services Supervisory Agency shall be responsible for the damages of the Croatian National Bank or the Financial Services Supervisory Agency." Responsibilities are transferred to the abstract institution, i.e. the Croatian National Bank, and ultimately the responsibility is transferred to the state budget, i.e. all of us who pay taxes and taxes that fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So, again, no one is responsible and citizens pay and so on. In Yugoslavia we had collective responsibility, in Croatia we have no responsibility at all. In Croatia, no affair that we have changed from a weekly rhythm to the daily rhythm of the appearance of these affairs in the media is answered by anyone. Yes, there is a great personal responsibility, for example, for the average person who got 5 days in prison and was taken away from him a large amount that he made 84 kunas. There is indeed a very fast, determined and unwavering state in its action to stop such dramatic actions and major violations of the law. However, this personal responsibility has somehow not been noticed that it exists, for example, in the trading of securities in the Croatian National Bank. So let's say in lying to the state council, the state's chief attorney. So let's say half a million prizes in your pocket just yesterday's information for the bank governor. Then for enforcing EU funds. No, no one's responsible. There is no individual responsible, there is no command responsibility. We didn't hear the Prime Minister say he was responsible for anything. We haven't heard from the ruling party that one of these affairs is responsible. So that responsibility just got lost. So what I was saying earlier about this responsibility is for this award possible that whoever is responsible for the financial problems to even be rewarded by putting them in a position to resuscitate that same institution. Fantastic! So, this is a small example that shows how this very process of recovery simply excludes the individual responsibility of persons who, by their negligence, greed or incomprehensible bad business decisions, have brought this same financial institution into crisis and that is exactly the message and such a message is what continues to be a fear that it is very easy to cause the financial collapse of an institution. Individual responsibility simply does not exist. And that is the bitter taste in the mouth that has continued after the financial crisis that many today have relied on and talked about and, and it has arisen at this award and those who were personally responsible for the numerous financial speculations that, of course, have then resulted in this huge financial crisis. So we finally believe that it is a good step to create a single European recovery fund that is being filled from the funds of the financial institutions themselves and which is at least 1% of the amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions. Of course, it's good news and that for '21. The Republic of Croatia must pay even less than 1% of the secured deposits. And this recovery fund has created such a fuse that in the event of a new financial crisis, the resolution will manage the fund itself, and not the state budgets of EU member states, as was the case in 2008. However, we worry that by the appearance of some major financial crisis, the fund itself will not succeed in amortising all this pressure since it is more designed for individual collapses of financial institutions, and less so on so-called. The domino effect, therefore, is one collapse of the entire financial system, and in order to avoid this domino effect, we believe in the green-left block that it must further strengthen the regulation of financial institutions and clearly prescribe individual responsibilities for individuals for harmful speculative business decisions and avoid uncontrollably transposing budget funds towards fallen financial institutions. The direct protection of citizens from the collapse of financial institutions in this respect should be a priority in relation to the very resolution of the fallen financial institutions, this initial one to say, a proportionality test, that the fund pays more first and directly to the creditors and savings, and only then to the financial institution itself, is important to implement in every decision on the recovery of the financial institution. So to conclude, the amendments and additions to this Act are seen as a continuation of further regulation of the recovery process, although, as we pointed out, we would like to see a more progressive resolution regulation, as well as a prevention of entry into financial collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90971	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90972	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I will remind myself of what I said during my first reading when I mentioned that I believe that today, that is to say, we will fully discuss this Law and probably not need any changes and additions to this Law for a very long time. I would like to remind you that we discussed this law at the beginning of our term of office, and at that time, in accordance with the obligation to continue to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the EU, we have brought our current law in line with the EU's Parliament and Council's directive on the capacity to cover losses and to capitalise credit institutions and investment companies. At that time, one reason for amending the existing law with the rehabilitation of institutions was the implementation of TLAC standards or the capacity of absorption of total loss and that standard was implemented and we put it into our law, or the EU adopted it, and after that we adopted it all together and implemented it. At that time, the law, which entered into force on January 1st 2021, brought the Croatian legislation into line with the EU acquis, but it also arranged a new division of rehabilitation powers as from the date of the establishment of close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank, became a participating Member State in the Unity Rehabilitation Mechanism. In addition, the Act also defines the resolution authorities which are authorised to exercise the power to resuscitate and implement the resuscitation instruments in the Republic of Croatia over the entities referred to in that Article. 3 for which it is not directly responsible, and in accordance with that division of powers, as set out in that Act, the resolution authorities are the CNB as a resolution body for a credit institution which is not part of a group and group which is at least one member of a group of credit institutions or the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. I will remind you that we talked about this and that the Law entered into force on 1 January 2021, that is, one part of the Law came into force on 1 January 2021. At the same time in January 2021, a thematic report was submitted in the European Court of Auditors regarding the recovery of banks, and if we look at it, if we look at that report, then we will see that there are certain shortcomings which are linked, primarily for financing during the recovery and that... Insolvency procedures are not harmonised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also established that the rules on the schedule of the burden differ depending on whether the bank is rehabilitated or received State support under the insolvency procedure. Despite these shortcomings, it has been found that the recovery mechanism has progressed and that there is still room for progress. They also wrote in their report that there are no significant obstacles to the implementation of bank recovery. That's what I'm saying because there were conflicting views and it was thought that this Law, part of our MPs, felt that this Law was not to be accepted. There are various concepts, however, I will remind you that before this Law there was a law that prescribed banks to prepare funds, or to give funds for recovery, that there was a Law on Banks and that the CNB had certain powers when a problem occurred. What is happening to you here with this Law, I think it is better because these same banks now give money to the Single European Fund, and as far as Croatia is concerned, it is not the amount of money that might be proportional to the introduction, that it is investing in Croatian funds, because the level of Europe has large banks and that their funds invested by citizens are far higher, so that the minimum percentage of 1% that should be given, probably for Croatia and there will be no 1%, or for Croatian banks there will be no 1% but there will be something smaller. And I asked that of a respected secretary in my replica from which percentage it can move, the answer was that it could range from 0.8 to 1.2%, and I think it's evident that fewer banks that don't have that much security about the deposit will get that security at this point. I agree with our colleagues who say that citizens have nothing of it because citizens will continue to be the same in the sense that if they have 100 thousand euros invested in the bank, they are guaranteed the deposit and they will be assured that they will get that deposit back if the bank fails. However, there are other factors that we must take into account, and I think that we should look a little wider at this problem and look at it in a way that when something is happening at the level of Europe, there was exposure to our colleague, when something is happening at the level of Europe, it is something different than the rest. That's where I have to turn, that's where I'd have to touch this, that topic that my colleague mentioned, which is energy policy at the level of Europe, and he said the energy prices would be low. I would not agree with this because prices may not be low, but what energy policy at Europe level would guarantee that prices will be stable or that they will be more stable and will not be subject to sudden high jumps, which is extremely important for our citizens, especially if we take our risk groups, such as people who have social assistance, as well as our pensioners. What I'd still like to point out is that I don't know why he's trying to distract a debate in a direction that's not good since we're talking about our safety. We're talking about the security of our investments, we're talking about bank security, and as a colleague said earlier in his presentation, if a bank has problems in its home country, what will they do first? First, they will pay funds from other countries where they have their own businesses. After that, since we are the most exposed because we do not have our own banks, i.e. we have one or two that are still owned by Croatia, I think we are more exposed than everyone else and we need to make sure that this unique European fund gives us some certainty that we will be protected from any bad placements that banks operating in Croatia can make and then cause problems for our fellow citizens. I think we believe that the participation of our institutions in the payment of contributions to the single fund will provide greater security in the business of our credit institutions, which is extremely important for all of us in Croatia, so I think that we should also discuss this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90973	The following are individual debates. First registered respected representative, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90974	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Good afternoon, everyone. So there is a law before us that, as the very beginning of the reasoning of legislative changes writes, another harmonisation of all that we have in Europe and where we adapt our legislation to European acquis, but it is also one law that we can say, as some speakers have said, that one step is where some things in our banking system are going to be safer for our citizens than they have been. Of course everyone can ask themselves if it's enough but on the other hand we have to admit that much more aggressive and much more difficult to expect in a system where we don't actually have our banks. Because the owners of most of the banks that we have in the Republic of Croatia are foreigners, where we also have a goal as part of Europe to enter the euro area and what historical behaviour in crises has so far shown us that every major European and global crisis has spread very quickly towards us. Not to say that because of our structural problems that we have not only in banking but mostly in the economic system, it was even more difficult than it was in some of the more developed EU countries. And there we simply have to admit that we are too small on that European market to be able to dictate a lot on our own. So any harmony that will help all of us with the passing of time and possible crisis moments so that we can have more trust in our system and we can protect more people who might be hit is definitely something that we can say is so commendable. But also in all these packages where we deal with banking, credit institutions would be good especially when we see what's going on today and it's been happening for weeks, that we are taking care and coordination of these European directives on what is waiting for our citizens and what could still be happening to them this year, and don't let God continue. Because the skepticism that arises over each law debate may not appear because of some individual law, but because of dissatisfaction in the global world. And in order for these laws to pass in one technical way, I think that a lot more of the Ministry of Finance should put forth efforts in the time ahead to give its clear framework which it plans to do with its tax policy, especially if we are talking about energy, which is also mentioned several times today, which it plans to do with excise policy. Because it's also very important if we talk about fuel as raw materials and as energy. What he plans to do with the tax policy towards trade chains and everything that happens in the sale of goods of broad consumption. And then maybe it would be much clearer to the citizens that everything as a directive we do, and much more acceptable with much less skepticism and much more optimism. Unfortunately, no matter what inflation has been galloping for some time, we still have no clear answers to what the Government will mainly Ministry of Finance do in which field, how it will enable people to live a better life and then we end up in that initial debate nothing changes, just taking care of the large capital, banks and everything that in Croatia very often gets as if it were some grandmother horn. So on the one hand absolute support at this step, but we think that in this difficult time which is a question that we all bear will still need much, much more, much more proactiveness, much more energy, and much more justice for all the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90975	Next is an individual debate by a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90976	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues from the ministry, respected fellow MPs. So I'm going to say, at first, everyone here uses the word gain, achievement, fluid, and then when you look at what it means, it means someone generally well achieved by hard work and efforts for the common good, that is, for the benefit of society. And when we talk about the EU, I've said a few times here for this speaker, the EU knows more or less where it's going and why it's going. What's in front of us today is something that's been caused practically in 2008. It's 2022 today. 14 years after that, we can talk about gains, liquids, or what Europe has concluded that it should do to ensure that its citizens or their economies have as stable an environment as possible. Should each individual country, or each individual entity, of the EU, have equal regard for all these laws. The answer is most likely not. Those who are more organized need it less, those who are more disorganised to them need it, or should benefit more from it. I will support this law for a simple reason because I think it's good that there's someone out of this country who can control things, who can tell a man to think about our well-being, because this government is not capable. This government has only proven it several times in the past few days. One is with the choice of the euro, where we suddenly have a problem with the Scottish Kuna, the second time because the energy that I have to admit when you've been looking at the energy market for the past ten years is at levels lower than 2014 and here we're talking about an increase in the prices of fat, fat, fat above the level of 2014. I'm looking at my colleagues on the right and I'm asking them how? That is why I think it is necessary to support this law, because Europe has come to a financial crisis which was in 2008 that has seen the lack of its system, the lack of appropriate instruments of response and is trying to find a solution to this. One part of the solution was in the reform of the banking system, which was practically based on stability, i.e. preserving the stability of financial institutions and the final answer is what I have said several times so far, saying that we seem to be moving towards the United States of Europe to create a single system. A unique system in terms of supervision, a unique system in terms of recovery mechanisms. And when you look at it, we should be better off because someone smarter than us will decide on our behalf. What I said in my replica of this law, unlike what the government is trying to wrap up for Croatian citizens, nothing will change. They themselves provided funds through the DAB to protect their stakes to a level of 100,000 euros. From those funds, a colleague says that's what the banks paid for, so these banks charged it for their own expenses and charged it to the citizens. And when you look at today what the citizens pay to the banks, then we'll realize that a dozen, fifteen years ago, we didn't pay the current bill without today costing us a minimum of 120 kuna, which is just to have it. And without it, we can't function, so I say I'll support this for a simple reason because it's really better for someone else to think about our well-being than for this government to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90977	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90978	The chairman, the MPs and the MPs. Somehow, the basic logic of this law and what the applicant puts on our table is that our citizens are protected, from having some failed banks and investment companies rescheduled at their own expense. And in itself it's an idea, as the intensity of this law is not bad. You'd say one former prime minister good, good. But I'm going to ask each other, right now maybe a little rhetorical question. I ask the question how much will it cost us all together both as a state and as politicians and as citizens this torment? I am not referring to the pain arising from the fact that less than ten percent of the total number of parliamentary deputies participated in this debate today, but rather the pain arising from the fact that clearly national states are no longer aware that it is necessary to redefine the role of national parliaments and the way in which democracy within the EU integration works. And why am I saying that? So now we're changing the law again in a way to say that we are harmonising it with EU directives once we've already copied and installed the EU directives and this current law came into force in 1.1 last year. What has changed so dramatically over the past year or why we haven't properly copied it for the first time? Well, if it's to believe the reasoning of this law it turns out it takes a little bit of harmony, a little respect, a little persuasion, a little persuasion of practice. And why is that? Because this European Single Renaissance Committee when it makes decisions on how to resuscitate a failed credit institution for which it is directly responsible does not actually have direct jurisdiction over those entities in the area, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, our national bank, therefore the Croatian National Bank, appears in the role of a mere copyist of the decision made by the Central European Single Renaissance Body. So, a mere copyist, not someone who autonomously makes his own decisions. And now I'm asking a question and what is the Croatian Parliament? A mere copyist of European directives, where our individual debate, the club attitudes, and even the parliamentary majority's position that such legislation will vote may not make sense at all. And that is why in the replica, i.e. the proposed representative, I asked the question whether at least the government is aware that in such a context in which the General Assembly is hand-lifting something that has been decided at the level of the EU body, in which even the Croatian National Bank as the competent authority has prescribed what it has decided and said to someone else whether we are at least able to come up with some control mechanisms different from those that exist today, because we are aware that our Croatian National Bank and its leaders have no awareness of their own responsibility, that our actions, mode of work, behaviour, decisions that they make must put trust in the system. Our governor doesn't have that trust anymore. Not only because of the fact that another national central bank, in particular Hungary felt that our governor was responsible for not knowing what it was worth, but this is what makes it worth half a million kuna, but because it is literally not able to protect the reputation and integrity of the state at the moment when it enters the euro system and designs the face and appearance of its European coin. In such a system, it is obviously necessary to redefine what we, as a state, are going to ask our governor and our national central bank, how they will behave in this unique European recovery mechanism, what we will individually propose there and what decisions we will implement. I didn't get an answer from the motionary's representative on my question. I received some general conclusion that the Croatian National Bank as well as the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency submitted a report. However, the content of these reports and the way they are discussed is completely empty. Nowhere does it say what the consequences of not accepting that report are or at the end of the day what should be written about them at all. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90979	We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90980	Dear fellow Members, in principle I would agree with more or less everything you have said and that this adoption of the law by Europe is actually a disgrace to those of us sitting here. But this isn't the first time. We have also taken over laws relating to the liberalisation of the electricity market, energy, we have established HERA which should control what is happening on that market and today we see the result of all this. So my question is do you think that Europe has passed the wrong laws, that is, like I said in my debate, the wrong liquids of what she was thinking, or do we have an incompetent system that we built to carry out it the way Europe imagined?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90981	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90982	Comrade Brumnic, thank you for asking. I believe in Europe, I believe in its mechanisms. I am glad that we are part of the EU and I more and more support the things that are being adopted at European level. But at the same time, I point out the dangers in those Member States where democratic consciousness is not built, in which there are no independent and independent institutions. We are not doing very well in the EU system. Other Member States also prescribe directives, however, install and design something in their national legislation that national legislation and the national system need. And that's the part we miss. We don't have a system like that. We could if nothing else by prescribing the conditions that some CNB report must contain could establish internal control mechanisms, and such control mechanisms are not in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90983	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić. Next item: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No.179 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90988	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of HS, Your Honor. MPs and Mr. MPs. You have before you amendments, therefore, a proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. The law was passed in 2013 and has so far experienced 3 novels, 2015, 2017 and 2018, and this would be, if adopted, the 4th novel of this Law. 3 are the key reasons for proposing and adopting this Act in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first is the harmonisation of this Act with the Law on the Fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The second reason is to comply with Council Directives 2011 relating to the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and the Council Directive of 2013 from the area of radiological security for which the Republic of Croatia has received official notification of damage to the right and is therefore in line with those Directives. And the third reason is the constant improvement of this system and the modification of certain provisions which have in practice proved ineffective and simply unsuitable for the practical application of the law in practice. Therefore, as regards compliance with the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, Krško Nuclear Power Plants, provisions concerning the establishment of the activities of the structure and financing of the fund, are excluded from the provisions of this Act and will be taken over by the Fund Act. His changes and additions that are on the agenda after this item of the agenda, so probably some of the questions that I will raise, and the question in the debate, will come to one and the other law and, in some cases, they may not be able to accurately look at them from the corners of one of these two laws. However, in respect of the liabilities of the fund as the manager of the waste management centre and in general related to the closure of the landfills in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 2017/11. I apologize, for the years, which relate to the measures for the period following the closure of the landfill, including the management, long-term supervision and maintenance of the closed landfill, are part of this Act because they belong to the regulatory competences of the Ministry of Interior which it implements, both according to the Fund and to other entities which are the bonds of this Act. The definition of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre is further changed by not supplying spent nuclear fuel to the centre, so nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but will be built in accordance with the agreement of the Croatian and Slovenian sides on the dry storage of spent nuclear fuel at the location of Krško nuclear power plant, so it will not be stored in the centre of which the fund is founded and which will be built in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about harmonising with the Directive, therefore, with the Directives, there is a coordination with the Council Directive of 2013 in the part of the definition of the exposed worker, it is therefore precise to determine who is the exposed worker and therefore it is defined that that person who is more exposed than he is, it can be expected to be exposed to another person who does not work with such means, as well as to the part relating to the obligation to ensure the management of used radioactive sources in cases, for example, insolvency or termination of the work of the owner, as well as to the care of those sources for which the owner cannot be determined. As regards the 2011 Directive, therefore, which regulates radioactive waste and spent fuel, this Law lays down the ultimate responsibility of the State for the disposal of spent radioactive waste fuel produced on its soil in cases where the source, owner or owner cannot provide funds for their disposal for bankruptcy, liquidation or other reasons. Of those provisions that I pointed out to be harmonised for better conductivity and practical reasons, I would point out, above all, the provisions concerning the implementation of nuclear insurance, which will only apply to radioactive sources and nuclear material, and security checks will be mandatory only for persons working in certain nuclear jobs. In relation to first reading, the draft final draft law was drawn up relatively insignificantly, primarily in a nomotechnical sense, in accordance with the observations of the HS Legislative Committee, and according to the SOA proposal, an article was completed. 8 in sections 12 and 16, which specify the procedure for conducting a thorough security check. Perhaps in the end a few more words about the current state of radioactive waste, although I say, and on the point that follows behind this will be more detailed speech. I'd just point out a few things. First of all, that the basis for systematic resolution of the disposal of radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia is the strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources, from the nuclear fuel used and the nuclear programme, I apologize to the National Programme for the implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. These documents provide for the establishment of a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, for all Croatian needs, which is half of the radioactive waste from, therefore, low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant and radioactive waste produced in medicine, industry, science or public use, other ways of public use. Currently, radioactive waste is taken care of in 2 warehouses that are closed, located in Zagreb, the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, which was closed in 2006 and the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, whose warehouse was closed in 2013. The entire inventory of these warehouses is, therefore, the radioactive one is about 11.5 cubic metres and will be taken care of within the planned centre for the disposal of radioactive waste. So it's mostly short-lived and long-lived radioactive waste. After closing the warehouse, exhausted radioactive sources which could not return producers will temporarily be stored in a safe manner at the location of the owner of the source until the start of the operation of the centre. Here, these are the basic indications from this Law and one, one picture of the current situation with radioactive and nuclear waste in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90989	Here, we have a few replicas. The first is Honored Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the end of this opening presentation, you mentioned the situation of providing institutional radioactive waste and closed warehouses at the Institute of Medical Research and the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. The topic of waste is always current, especially radioactive waste, and I believe that today there will be different thinkings on a different subject, but I hope that there will be no sensationalism, as it was during previous discussions when and completely unargumented and unjustly created panic, precisely for the closed warehouse at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and thus dumped itself on the core scientific institution. So this problem of permanent storage of institutional radioactive waste coming from the field of medicine, science, military industry should definitely be taken care of and as other member states are looking for the most vulnerable ways and I believe that this will be solved with a radioactive waste management centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90991	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90992	Mr. MP, your findings are accurate, as I pointed out, in my opening statement, the current amounts of short-lived and long-lived radioactive waste are 11.5 cubic metres, and the assessment that, with the existing activities of all these institutions by 2060, this would be about 100 cubic metres.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90993	Followed by the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90994	Dear Secretary of State, I asked you last time, so please answer me if there are any changes regarding our obligation to comply with the provisions of EU regulations with our proposals for regulations. We're a lot late here, I think. So last time I listed 91 contents of a provision that wasn't taken over and, like, will be taken over by date 20.10. Now I went to watch again, there's almost every article or every other article of EU rules where it says it's going to be downloaded again, not taken over by existing rules or this law and again by the date of 20.10, so nothing has moved. What are we gonna do with that? We've already been injured twice by the EU, we need to correct, so obviously we're late, February 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90995	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90996	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. The Radiological and Nuclear Security Act transposed the requirements of several EU Commission directives. For requests from the two Directives of 2011 and 2015, They have been transposed into national legislation through the Radiological Nuclear Safety Act, including these amendments and additions and sublaws, including the most important regulation on the disposal of radioactive waste used sources. It is true that it is because of the discrepancy with the requirements of certain articles, e.g. Art. 5, Art. 7 of the 2011 Council Directives, the Republic of Croatia has received an official notification of infringement of the right with which further clarifications of compliance with the Article of that Directive are requested. These violations will be recovered, so to speak, resolved, through amendments to the law and changes to a series of regulations that will change after this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90997	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90998	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said in your statement that the meaning of our waste was created in the area of the Republic of Croatia in the field of medicine, industry, military industry and science is about 11.5 cubic metres. Do you have any information on how much radioactive waste you need to take over from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, that we're going to have to take half of it, do you have as much in cubes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u90999	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91000	Dear Mr. Representative, yes, we will have to take over both the existing quantities and the ones that arise, so in the future work of NO Krško. They are now approximately at around 1130 cubic metres, so much bigger than those mentioned by our institutional sources, and the estimated quantities with the day of expected work of our care centre will be about 1400 cubic metres, and the expected amounts up to 1000, I apologize, from 2043 to the closure of the originally planned closure of the nuclear power plant would be about 1780 cubic metres.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91001	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91002	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, we are aware that the Republic of Croatia does not have a nuclear power plant on its territory, nor plans to build it, but in the neighbourhood Krško is expanding in Slovenia, Hungary is doing new reactors and what we see and the EU is turning to nuclear energy, even the International Atomic Energy Agency has changed its forecasts and by 2050 it plans to double the production of energy through nuclear forms, primarily for reasons of purity, so there is no CO2 and production stability. We are aware that we are in an energy troubled time, and in some ways we are going back through new technologies, through everything that has been done in the past and nuclear energy, so what is the position of the Republic of Croatia both for Krško and for the further part of HEP co-ownership?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91003	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91004	Mr. MP, as we know in many EU Member States, nuclear power plants or nuclear reactors are still in use. According to the data I have, 126 are currently in 14 EU Member States, so over half of the Member States. We believe that nuclear energy is still a safe, independent and competitive low-carbon energy source for now, and we think that this energy without, nuclear energy without reliable new renewables would not be desirable to leave, but of course be very careful and use these power plants in accordance with the very strict protocols that exist. You're also right that we have close to our border except, so these joint power plants and power plants in Hungary and in some other countries that can, of course, cause certain incidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91005	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91006	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I welcome the adoption of this law as a good basis for a systematic solution to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. What I am particularly interested in, I am a little bit today and we have talked about what this bill does not read that we have provided for procedures in the event of an extraordinary radiological or nuclear incident in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot read it from it in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91007	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91008	Thank you. Mr. Representative, that this is like I said very much, changes are relatively short, 12 articles, several pages of text. However, as I mentioned various other documents that exist, so is the ongoing adoption of the RH's preparedness plan to a radiological or nuclear emergency. The adoption of this plan will provide a legal framework for the implementation of measures to protect and respond to radiological or nuclear emergency and at local and international level, which will also serve as a basis for the development of planning documents and lower levels. The proposal for a plan has currently been developed by the MUP under Article. Nine. Regulations on protection measures against ionising radiation, and will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The plan, therefore, includes, if there is time, radiological and nuclear extraordinary events that could occur either in Croatia or in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91009	The next replica is a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91010	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, this is from '93. To date, we have had 10 locations where radioactive waste should be taken care of, so I ask you to tell us and all the Croatian public what all soil tests must go through to meet the conditions that radioactive waste can be stored? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91011	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91012	Mr. Representative, as I said part of the answer, everyone will be able to give a colleague who will explain the Fund Act here. However, research and measures are certainly very rigorous, I repeat that it will not only store low and medium radioactive waste and waste from institutional sources that I mentioned earlier whose quantities are not so large at present, but the safety and protection of the environment requires them to be located in a completely secure facility that will pass all rigorous measures. The final decision will also be made by the MUP on the basis of all the proposals provided and the consent of other competent authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91013	Followed by a replica of respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91014	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, my question refers precisely to the authority of this law, so these are amendments and additions to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. So, under this law there is also a obligation of a nuclear security plan that also includes a cybersecurity plan, so cybersecurity related to individual devices such as gamma knives that actually have cybersecurity, is a device that has, consists of radioactive radiation, and is not controlled by a computer, but is operated directly by a certain means an independent source has or does not know an example is possible in industrial radiography or, for example, in the work on drillings and everything else. I'm curious, so it's the sole jurisdiction of your ministry regarding the cybersecurity plan, do we have it, until when we have it, has it taken care of everything? It's classified documents. I don't expect you to say confidential things to the public now, but I expect some frames to be said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91015	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91016	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, I said it was made, but no plan has yet been adopted to prepare the Republic of Croatia's response to a radiological or nuclear emergency. The plan is in line with all the requirements of the European acquis internationally accepted recommendations in this area, and above all it is a proportionate type of extraordinary event to which it relates. On this particular issue of the cybernetic plan, I cannot answer it more in detail at this time, but if you ask, you will get a written answer to the content of the plan itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91017	Next is the replica of the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ma'am. It is very important to protect the health of workers. This is something that everyone needs to take care of, so I welcome and want to point out once again that in this, these amendments to the law, you have foreseen the exact definition of the exposed worker. This, in line with Europe's recommendations, is very important because these definitions also give rise to the obligations it has to such a exposed worker as to health care, but also to other rights. So I think it's a good step under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91019	Thank you very much. I agree with you, ma'am. MPs. It was our obligation, too, but we wanted it to, to be precisely defined by what the exposed worker was, that he could also be properly protected during working with radiological and other dangerous material, and even after that, if there was an incident that could be properly treated and possibly obtain the necessary compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91020	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91021	Dear Secretary of State, as far as I understand none of the low-radioactive waste will now be stored in Croatia. Did I get that right from your presentation? So none of the low-radioactive waste will be stored.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91022	It'll be stored.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91023	Yeah, high.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91024	It won't be stored high, and low-radio and mid-radio will be stored in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91025	Okay, so the next question is, will at one stage, okay, I understand that, and the whole process is clear to me, what I'm only interested in about high-radioactive waste at one point in the future, do we have a contractual obligation to take over this waste in Croatia and is that one of the reasons why Cherkezovac is working now or at no time, so Slovenia is taking over all highly radioactive waste?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91026	This is exactly the second, so what you just said, Slovenia is taking over all radioactive waste and it is not planned to store it in the Republic, so only medium and low-radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91027	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91028	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry, perhaps we should just comment on an article in today's daily press. The European Commission added a delegated act on taxonomy on 2 February, so the gas and nuclear energy sectors went inside, let's put it this way, desirable. The World Organisation for Nature Protection reported immediately and called the European Commission because it has put gas and nuclear energy into environmentally acceptable energy sources, and is currently going towards asking the European Parliament and the Council to reject this act, so here is just your brief comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91029	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91030	Your Honor, I don't have a special comment on this issue from here, but I can have my own opinion now on the ad hoc news I can't say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91031	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Renate Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91032	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Here today you also told us at the Health Committee session that we in these two warehouses have 11 m3 radioactive waste, and now you're telling us what we weren't told at the session that from Krško Nuclear Power Plant we need to get another 1,130 m3 of nuclear, low and medium radioactive nuclear waste that we're going to deposit in this new center that we're going to build. I am therefore interested in the last session, or when we discussed it in our first reading of this law, it is said that some of these materials will be crossed and that we do not know where we will cross them and how much they will cost. Are we talking about 1,130 m3 of raw material or, for now, the scattered material we're just going to have to drive, and how much will it cost to transport, transport and transport here to Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91033	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91034	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, this question about, about prices I really can't answer you right now. If you're looking for an answer I will, we'll prepare a written answer because we probably need some analysis to make or possibly some offers to see how much it would cost. This material that we talked about is usually this consumable material that, which employees at the nuclear power plant use daily and which is then thrown away after the working day, corners, gloves, some sort of consumable material. He in a certain way, I don't know, I can say he sprayed it, so his dimension decreases, but he can still get even more pollinated and that's what he's going to do, it's going to work and lead to the location of the dump.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91035	Next, please, the next replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91036	I'm not surprised that the reasoning of the law is so contradictoryly dealt with. In principle, I object to the united debates, but in this case it would be logical and justified to hold a united debate on two points of the agenda in two laws, which are changed according to the system of combined vessels. I don't want to imagine what the writer was going to say, or assume what would be logical, but I want to vote by the laws based on what it says. So, among other things, in the light of this second fund law, it's said this, the center won't worry about spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, right? My question to you is why, if that is the case, has not changed the name of the fund that still has the name of the Fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant? I hope you understand the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91037	Answer. Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91038	Thank you very much. In principle, these two laws are really intertwined, and that is what I was saying at the outset and one part of the matter regulates the same matter or part of the matter is being transferred from this law to the Fund Act, so on this side answers your questions often, often, they come into the matter of this other law that will follow here in the debate. I don't know why, the honest name of the law is a little too long for me because I'm a lawyer and I tend to make the laws easier in the name itself, but that's not often the case, so obviously it's not here either. Could it be better done I can't speak on behalf of the colleagues who worked on it. We can always do better both this and every other regulation we have. So the question concerns the second law and will be answered by your colleagues if, during the debate or by giving amendments, the law can be corrected, I believe, that, for that, there will be hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91039	Next, follow the replica of the respected MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91040	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, I have already expressed a reservation in my first reading under this law because the adoption of such a law leads in fact to the construction of a dump of low and medium radioactive waste in the Republic of Slovenia, which I object to, not because it is planned in my county on the trade worse than because I think that Croatia should not and that we should have sought solutions in the dialogue with Slovenia because you have brought on here relatively small amounts of institutional waste that will be created by the end of the working century by Krško nuclear power plant and I am interested in whether, even during the talks with the Slovenian side within the Joint Commission, you have ever opened a conversation on whether the Slovenian side would accept not only our part that will be broken down by the nuclear waste of Krško but also this institutional waste, or not being discussed at all, and what kind of obligation would it mean in financial terms?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91041	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91042	Of course that would be the most practical solution. There was a discussion on the management of complete waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but the Slovenian side did not accept it and therefore Croatia has an obligation to take care of one half of the radioactive waste, hence low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Despite these efforts in the talks, they did not bear fruit. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have any information that we've talked about institutional waste that we've seen that we have several hundred times less, this one than we have, but so far from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and for the amounts since they haven't even accepted that possibility of how much it would cost you I can't exactly answer or I don't know the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91043	Thank you. That's what we're done with the replicas. Thank you, Secretary of State. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91044	Thank you, Chairman. I'm calling in an article. 238, although he directly refers to MPs, I think that by the logic of things, he must commit every speaker to the HS speaker. In fact, the harsh demeaning of MPs is a situation in which the proposing's representative comes at an extremely unprepared hearing, so he is unable to answer the asked question in the replica because he does not understand the difference between the title of the law and the title of the bodies implementing a particular provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91045	Now it can be interpreted as insulting to him. Okay, I won't give you a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91046	You can play the video, ask, compare the question and get the answer, so I didn't come to the assembly to play the mushroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91047	...and I'm not going to pollemize, I'm not going to paralyze with you, I'm not going to paralyze you, now you're getting a warning because you're taking your word for it, you're getting a warning, and I can interpret that you insulted him. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91048	I thank the chairman. Representative Oreshković has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. In 238, as you yourself said to the Secretary of State, while insulting all of us who read the material carefully and thus bring it into context here, it says why if we don't take care of nuclear waste, spent nuclear fuel, what's the fund called for? The fund is called and its title is to finance the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste, so we are obliged to finance it, however the center... for the disposal of radioactive waste, not nuclear waste. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91049	And you get a warning because you used this same thing for a replica, and you're going to get another warning. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening an argument, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91050	I mean, this one's been a little messed up about all this together and nobody wiped out the pay phone, but okay, I guess it's gonna be okay. Well...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91051	A pay phone was deleted, a pay phone was deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91052	Yeah, I didn't notice then. At its 49th session of the Committee held on 9 February 2022, the Health and Social Policy Committee discussed the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, a second reading by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 10 December 2021. In the discussion, the committee members agreed that this law is a good basis for further development of the radiological and nuclear security system, and that a system of management of radiological and nuclear incidents should also be defined. The applicant's representative reported that, at present, in the process of drawing up the RH response plan to the radiological and nuclear, nuclear emergency that should be, which should give a response and the procedures provided for in such situations. As he pointed out, there is a problem with the personnel team, which is also a global problem because most regulatory authorities have to do with the restriction, most often financial nature, to attract experts of this type to the regulatory body. Currently, the Civil Protection Directorate employs and teams new personnel who will be able to respond through the education of international trends to all challenges related to the radiological and nuclear security system. After the discussion, the board members voted mostly, 6 that and one abstention decided to propose HS to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91053	Thank you. Any other committees want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then we begin the debate, I open the debate, the first is the registered Club of Representatives of the Mosta and will be discussed on his behalf by respected MPs Miletic and Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91054	I went to college, got ready for my exam. Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, the Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the Most Club, so I say this primarily to the Croatian people, we understand all about it, whoever entered the topic and read it knows what it is, so I am telling you Croatian peoples this. We as a state have our rights and we have our own obligations. We can dream of flowers in the company, birds flying, greenery, and billions coming into the budget, and that's not how it works, that's not how it works. So even then, in the situation where we are, the state has to do everything it can to protect people's health, the environment of people, the environment of nature and to have money, to have energy, to live because if we're going to flower flowers and birds sing everything, and there's no money we're going to be alone, and we're not going to be here in the assembly because I'm going to pick up the suitcases and go away, so you see it complicated. Now let's explain a little bit, so this is a time of uncertainty and energy uncertainty, and that's why we at the Bridge Club are very open to nuclear energy. I'm going to explain it to the people, so I think I'm going to explain, and now it's going to come to me, and I'm going to get closer to the subject. 8.7 million deaths a year from burning fossil fuels, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 9 million people at world level die from fossil fuels. I'll be even more plastic, death by Terravatsat you have 0.07% are nukes, 18.4% is oil, 24.6% is coal. I'll be even more plastic, coal power plants cause 350 times more deaths than nuclear, 350 times oil 260 times. Now if I wanted to be a little hm ticklish maybe you'd say that millions of people die a year because we don't actually have enough nukes because if we had enough nukes, we wouldn't have enough people dying. My personal opinion, my personal opinion is that Chernobyl killed more people with less nuclear power plants than he died of that accident. So nuclear energy is needed, it's clean, it's our future and it's in nuclear energy. For example, As soon as someone in any nuclear power plant finds a problem, they're looking for solutions, but not just for that power plant, but for the whole world, and it's spreading right away. For example. When in Fukushima tsunamis, he disabled the aid to the aggregates and therefore came about by the accident all the nuclear power plants in the world immediately changed design, so that the flood can no longer affect the aggregates anywhere, that means that they had to be provided, so technology and security systems are constantly moving forward. I believe that it is a matter of public acceptance, not of technological feasibility. The UN Economic Commission for Europe in August last year published a document stating that nuclear energy could help achieve all the climate objectives set out in the Paris Agreement, and that is what Olga Algayer's is waving at and speaking here we are open to nuclear energy. So nuclear energy cleans up in a number of ways, primarily its CO2 emissions are practically equal to zero, they're lower than solar-related emissions. It takes a very small area per unit of energy produced, and far, far less than most other energy sources. For example, solar panels or wind turbines must be deployed on a vast surface, a vast surface, and here we now have questions about environmental and nature impacts, and we will talk about it in another topic, in order to create the same energy that one nuke creates. In addition, unlike renewables that depend on wind and sun, this is a stable source of energy. So we at the Bridge Club hold that nuclear energy can be complemented by renewable sources, especially these new types of reactors that are developing. And once again, France is satisfied with the nukes, over 60% of the energy they get from the nukes, Finland ends up with its nuke, the Swedes get energy from the nukes, the Hungarians build the one as Pax-2, so the United States only has 20% of the energy from the nukes, so everyone can, and we here best to climb the tree and pray that we don't know the dear God let us have both the pie and the tourist and everything and that Croatia lives, and that's not how it works, it doesn't work. So, please ruling because you are ruling, and we are an opposition so you have the greatest responsibility towards the Croatian state, watch out for the environment, health of people and let's make Croatia a better place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91055	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow Members and respected peoples who follow us through the screen, the very theme of nuclear energy in the Croatian people should not be repugnant and I think we should go in a strategic sense in the direction of nuclear, nuclear power plants. So, every 5th light bulb in the Republic of Croatia comes from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and in the EU each 4th light bulb is actually obtained from nuclear power plant. And that is why I am talking about an important source of energy for Croatia, but also at EU level. The IEA International Energy Agency would estimate that limiting the rise in temperatures below 2 Celsius would require a permanent reduction in CO2 emissions, with CO2 being measured in terms of GDP. On average 5.5% apart from 2030 to 2050, this is now an additional argument for the nuclear power plant. So this is ambitious, and in the past there are Member States within the EU that have succeeded, France and Sweden, respectively, are doing this trend precisely thanks to their reasonable nuclear programmes. And these reports by the European Commission are actually contrary to, contrary to the flat-rate arguments of a TImmermans. So 103 nuclear energy reactors produce approximately 100 Gigavat, 13 of the 27 EU members, which means almost half. As far as further studies are concerned, Croatia should seriously consider this nuclear energy, for example, a study commissioned by European conservatives and reformists and the European Parliament's recovery group in Europe, respectively, in which 3 key issues for the EU's ambition to become climatic until 2050 in the context of nuclear energy. Under number 1 the impact of EU climate neutrality on average global atmospheric temperatures. Two, spatial, land and sea requirements for wind and sun energy compared to nuclear energy in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands, with which we can compare both wind and solar energy prices for these two countries. The study showed that, in real scenarios, the Netherlands, which is a state by the North Sea with a heavy wind, and neither the Czech Republic, which is a state without access to sea with a geographically demanding landscape, has too few countries and cannot meet its electricity needs if they rely exclusively or mainly on wind or sun energy. The decision was also made to make nuclear energy more cost-effective, and this showed a study of renewable energy sources. Now, someone can say that this is a political study commissioned by European conservatives, Renew Europe, etc., but when you look at who the reviewers of this study are, so we're talking about a professor therefore the winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics of Prof. William Nordhaus of Yale, a renowned professor in the area of environmental economy, Dr. Jori Rogelj and nuclear energy Prof. Dr. Fabian Rocke. Finland saw for itself when the power went out with regard to water problems and when they saw that the sun couldn't help them, so they had to find a solution from natural gas from Russia in the short term, but what they are doing now is the third and fifth nuclear reactor in the Olciluotto 3 nuclear power plant in western Finland, which will bring them after the end which is still a little bit to 60% of the consumption or production of electricity. Flamanville also 3 in western France, in northwestern France, means somewhere around 70% of production will be even more electricity. Slovakia's Bohunice will be about 55% when it's done. The Pags 2 that was mentioned earlier came from more Russian VVR technology, not the new technology of the third nuclear reactor that is in Europe. So there's a problem with over budgeting. These projects last long, there is a problem of nuclear waste that seems to have managed to solve with geological excavations, but nuclear energy is definitely a strategic energy source that Croatia needs to consider closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91056	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative of Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91057	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, here I was encouraged by colleagues from the Most to change this debate a little bit, I agree with them almost 100% throughout this debate, especially here we have recently become aware of the energy frailty actually of the entire European system this summer when a large part of the renewable so-called. the sources in Germany fell out of operation due to adverse weather conditions where this German engine, in fact, was a locomotive, the driver of Europe fell to the fact that from the largest exporter it had become an importer of electricity. That this year due to renewable sources, German thermal power plants were reactivated and the electricity was imported from France. We see what happens to gas, and I don't think Croatia is an island, that we need to think about it, especially since energy opportunities have changed in the world how to make the best of this potential that we have. Unfortunately, we have a large portion of the land that isn't densely populated. This is our chance because all of our neighbours will take advantage of and will threaten us evenly again and if the Hungarians are working on eastern nuclear technology de facto a few kilometers from the Croatian border there we have up in Slovenia the same, it would be a living sin that Croatia does not take advantage of this potential especially when it is seen that 500 billion euros in the fund for the construction of the nuke. Already, many European countries have shown the initiative that it is interested. He also encouraged me to say that we rely on tourism as an economic branch that might actually be at risk of this kind of nuclear energy, but here we are being denied by the best France that has 59 nukes, so I don't see that those touristic something achieves the worse potential, and on the other hand, we amaze me to say Switzerland which, I realized that it is actually working to preserve its natural resources, has the largest number of drownings in the use of nuclear energy per capita in Europe. I think that's the story we have to use and get into it. I have even some data here, because I was also thinking about saying that indeed 14 EU Member States currently use 126 nuclear reactors, as we know both China and Russia have now declared nuclear energy to be environmentally acceptable because they have an even greater problem of fossil fuels, and that is the energy in which I think we should go. All in all, nuclear energy is a purely secure and independent and competitive low-carbon source of energy and nuclear energy is an opportunity for us too, so that we can develop an additional value industry and create new jobs, as well as remain strategic autonomy, and energy self-sufficiency if we want to be competitive in the market of Europe and attract investment in the Republic of Croatia, so let's not forget that this is tightly connected, the price of energy will open up to us tomorrow some kind of production or not, at which price will get energy or we will be third hand and we will pay the most expensive energy price in Europe, the direct competitiveness of our industry depends on it. Now I'm gonna go back on the subject a little bit, which I thought I should actually reach out to here for this debate that's been going on so far. The national programme provides for the establishment of a central storage facility for institutional radioactive waste and used resources at the location of the former UN warehouse of the Cherkezovac complex as a location for a radioactive waste disposal centre. It is noted primarily that this is about radioactive waste, not nuclear waste, as predicted and that a lot of noise is being raised recently about building a complex on Cerkezovac, often dominated by disinformation in the media area. In order to improve citizens' information, it is necessary to clarify that no high-radioactive waste storage facility is planned in Croatia, not now or in the future, although we will need it if we want to keep up with the world. There is no high-radioactive waste in Croatia, and it is planned exclusively to store low and medium radioactive waste from institutions that have been using it in the past 30 years and mainly the warehouse itself in its space, and it has often been in the most densely populated parts of our country and it has not been a problem now. The amount of institutional radioactive waste produced in Croatia is relatively small and should be noted that such radioactive waste and exhausted sources of ionising radiation will continue to occur, and that the national programme forecasts that it will be in the period up to 2060. a total of about 100 m3 of such waste. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security is a good basis for systematic resolution of the problem of radiological and nuclear security. We expect that after the vote of this law, it will take place in the operational establishment of this part of the system that does not exist at the professional level, even if it is modelled by the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia. What our country currently does not have is intended and regulated a professional system solution in the event of an extraordinary event or incident. In this case, the law relys on JLS or institutions that have radiological material not taking into account the great possibility that these units of local self-government due to the uniqueness of the problem and expertise of the necessary persons who possess specific knowledge are not the most often able to establish such a type of system and so far has not been implemented in real life. As this challenge is specific and the possibility of an incident is relatively small, but as we also have a small number of professionals who could intervene in such a case, I think it would be desirable, for example. at national level in the context of civil protection, set up a team that can intervene in the event of an incident within 2 hours, as well as establish duty for the same, not that in the event of any incident we are doing improvisation which can ultimately cost us much more. I'd like to point out two things about this law in the end. The first is the establishment of a radioactive waste disposal centre is something to greet. This is the cheapest solution for responsible and safe management of radioactive waste to avoid imposing unnecessary burdens on future generations. Secondly, since we do not now have a system-based nuclear and radiological security issue, this law is a good basis for a systematic solution to this problem. As liberals, we will always represent a rational approach to policies against collective panics of any kind, including those concerning environmental issues, and in particular disinformation, and therefore welcome the adoption of this law, which prescribes the exclusive responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the management of its own radioactive waste and used resources created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91058	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91059	Thank you, Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. I think this law is a good basis for further development of radiological and nuclear security systems, with the need to define systems for the management of radiological and nuclear emergency situations, events or possible incidents. What, here's what I'd like to do with only one sentence is somehow refer to colleagues who spoke before me about nuclear energy and the need, especially now at this time of the energy crisis. I wish our country's future was at the energy of nuclear fusion or energy, a process that happens in the sun. We see that physicists are now intensively investigating and trying to actually make this system, or produce that energy that's actually based on hydrogen and its isotopics, but what's most important is that it doesn't produce CO2 emissions, there's no nuclear waste, and if that energy could actually work out, I think that the problem is that the high temperatures of a few tens of thousands of degrees is because they're causing a problem for now. I think it would be a future in an energy sense where there is no nuclear waste, but until we do, we have to deal with this bill here in order to sort out the future problems that exist, and the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act determines the measures of radiological, nuclear security, nuclear security measures, the recording and monitoring of nuclear material, and other measures of non-proliferation of nuclear energy, weapons or I don't know everything else that can come. Given that the provisions of the Law on the Fund for the financing of construction and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of Krško nuclear power plant are in line with the laws, regulations and sublaws adopted and the strategy for the disposal of waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuels, and which directly affects the activities, powers and obligations of the fund including the establishment of the centre, it is necessary to amend and supplement the Fund's law to make appropriate changes in order to achieve their compliance or avoid the different standards of matter relating to the delirious fund and the establishment of the Centre and the financing of the fund's activities. This law lays down the definition of the centre for the disposal of radioactive waste, the definition of exposed workers, the ultimate responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, compliance with the 2011 EU Council Directive. .../incomprehensible/... and the Republic of Croatia has a commitment to a technologically secure, environmentally acceptable and organisationally effective way of dealing with institutional radioactive waste from medicine, industry, science, military industry and to resuscitate sites where natural radioactive materials are located. It also has an obligation to physically take over in an effective manner, to take care of half of the radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel stored in Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The existing situation in Croatia has led to the need to set up a radioactive waste disposal centre to unite all plants in one location for the purpose of the disposal of radioactive waste of spent sources and spent nuclear fuel. The Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste is set up to systematically organise low and medium radioactive waste management. The centre plans the establishment of a central warehouse of radioactive waste used sources from the Republic of Croatia and long-term storage for low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The disposal of radioactive waste involves all administrative and operational procedures that safely isolate radioactive waste from the human environment. The mode of treatment of radioactive waste will depend on the type of radioactive waste produced, its quantity and activity. The radioactive waste management system should include the collection, classification of waste, transformation, processing, pre-processing, processing and appropriate conditioning in the form suitable for handling, transport, storage and final disposal for this intended permanent disposal. As we heard in the Republic of Croatia, there are now about 11.5 cc's of such institutional waste. Radioactive waste shall be classified depending on the content of the radionuclide and its half-life and activity time. In Croatia, radioactive waste is classified in 4 classes. Exceptional and, first excluded and released radioactive waste, second low radioactive short-lived waste, third low and medium radioactive with subclasses short-lived and long-lived and fourth highly radioactive waste. Low radioactive waste and medium radioactive waste, since the limits are not clearly defined, are often classified together and are put off together. Low and medium radioactive waste occurs in a gas, solid and liquid state while high radioactive waste produced by the processing of spent nuclear fuel is mostly in the current aggregate state, liquid contaminated by radionuclides. The warehouse, storage of liquid radioactive waste is not allowed, therefore its processing is important because it is thus converted into a form suitable for storage and disposal and is reduced to volume. Low radioactive waste has the highest volume and lowest activity, while high-radioactive waste has the lowest volume, but therefore the highest activity. Treatment with all types of radioactive waste is strictly regulated by national and European regulations and international conventions. In order to systematically organise the disposal of the said waste, and based on the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste of Used Sources and Exhausted Fuel and the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety in the Republic of Croatia, a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste will be established, and since this really is a good proposal for the HDZ Law Club will support the final proposal for amending and supplementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91060	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91061	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we have in the second reading of the amendments and additions to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, behind this we will have another debate, and this debate is related to the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel nuclear power plant Krško. Introductoryly, I would like to refer and point out once again that this should be a united debate for the simple reason that some of the things that are being solved and in this law have something to do with another law. The reasoning that we have received every time that this is not possible because the proposings of two different bodies I'm afraid already in this assembly we had the case that there was a united discussion of two, three different bodies and that was then possible. I get the feeling that when an opposition suggests something on boards, then you're so stubborn as a little kid, you can't. I don't see any reason why it couldn't. It could have been done and it would have been easier for all of us, it would have been easier for even the promoters because it's connected to each other, and we have to do it inevitably and in the debate, and we're going to overlap just like that because it's tied to each other, and it's hard to say one thing about not connecting to the other law. I will try to lead this debate in a way that I still try how much to bind myself to this law because what is the meaning of this law and what we must never forget, regardless of what attitudes we have, is that the Republic of Croatia has the ultimate responsibility for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel and used resources that have been created in its territory. This is Article 51(1), and paragraph 2 also states responsibility for the disposal of radioactive waste used sources and now goes on to regulate the work of the funding fund. So it's about each other and it's the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia. I am sure, we have talked here several times about some strategic definitions of the Republic of Croatia, about the development strategy, about the development programme and everything else, there are some moments in the development of a country that is a member of the EU, and that is where we need to make some decisions. I would like to, so some decisions are made and the basis is experts, experts are made, experts will do and analyze what you say, but some bases should be political. Two years ago, if someone had gone out into the public space of the politics of the Republic of Croatia and spoken to nuclear energy as something they say today would have been burned at the stake. Today, the EU, so the European Commission and their commissioner are talking about nuclear energy, talking about nuclear energy that under certain conditions are environmentally acceptable sources, that they are opening a new path to private investment in such projects, we see exactly which countries have settled where and my question is where we are? Where is Croatia? Where is Croatia right now? I went to see the literature, you have exactly what's for, and what's against it? For a stable and reliable power source, a safe source of electricity, low greenhouse gas emissions, the price of electricity produced in the long term can be stable. What's against it? Production of radioactive waste, public perception, disposal of radioactive waste. So we have arguments for and arguments against. So the paper suffers all sorts of things. The competent ministry will make an amendment to the law as it gets to be made. What this country's political stance on nuclear energy is, so I've had plenty of gray ones and I've remembered for a long time. In these areas the topic of environmental impact assessment you know how old it is, environmental impact assessments started working there in '88, '89. A year. The EU-wide strategic environmental impact assessments are 10 years old, and I took a course that was called for by some environmental impact experts who came first from the Netherlands. So we're talking about some kind of procedure where we estimate a space that's not 50 years old or 100 years old. So the point when you talk about some green energy, about green production, was once here to say that water is a renewable energy source, and then it came to us that our procedures were bad, and the water was declared a renewable energy source. We will discuss two laws here, in front of a small or larger one, we will be more or less, someone will discuss it one way or another, but there are some key moments in the development of certain countries where the country has to define the purpose of politics, political decision and these are the topics of consensus, so they are not the topics of consensus in this assembly which we are now strengthening the muscles of such or such. What I think is that this assembly should bring consensus to that level whether we support further, further investment in nuclear energy, if we support under what conditions and how. It's a topic we need to talk about, and we need to see. And then not now debate through two laws, so we'll all make up what we're going to discuss on one, what we're going to discuss on another, or we won't think about. That's the subject, and if we conclude that we need to know what our responsibility is in the area of the disposal of radioactive waste. So we and Slovenians are still struggling around the Krško power plant, so what, then they won't solve it, so we won't solve it. Maybe it's a political decision not to solve them or us on their territory, but to pay somewhere else. But those are decisions that need to be made, those are decisions that need to be taken. At this point, we, a small country and we, in relation to some of the currents at EU level, are hardly able to make any decisions, we are a small country. You know exactly why, why does this gas thing happen, because they have some people who can blackmail, who are powerful and big, because it hasn't been explored in years because it's decided not to explore in gas. We know exactly what's going on and with electricity, what's going on with us, we're based on water, and all we're talking about is the wind, it's about solar energy, and all the other countries is a small percentage, you have to have some kind of stable source in order to have a cheap, so who at the end of the pay, citizens. In order to be a stable price, it has to be a stable source of energy, so I don't think you should be a great economic or economic expert. A stable energy source is nuclear energy it has its positive and its negative, we just need to evaluate what is important for this country and what is important for our future development and know what we will have in future development. There's nothing, there's no perpetum mobile that's all at the end of zero. You always have advantages and disadvantages. And instead of discussing these two laws to me twice through two debates instead of really opening the topic and people, to say my people this has shown us our impotence, where you are powerless alone, where you are powerless within the EU where there are actually some policies and some responsibilities going on somewhere further, which is our political stance regarding nuclear energy, let's listen to experts as they say, you have experts both for and against. Somehow in my life, in my political life I always like to make decisions reasonable on the basis of reasonable certain criteria. I like to have criteria, so I have criteria for and against, so I look at everything together, so things change. This law that we have today in the debate was first passed in 2013, so what I asked the secretary of state about cybersecurity, 2013 were very rare gamma knife operations, today these operations are normal. Every gamma knife operation is bound to create, so the result will be nuclear waste, and it has this part in it, and it's also connected to cybersecurity at country level, so at this point you have worse satellites that know exactly how many of us there are in the assembly and how who's dressed and what color the hair has. Finally, this law of 12 articles, very clear, technically understandable, but this law in us needs to be asked questions, and we really need to ask ourselves what our role is as parliamentary advocates, which is the role of even political parties in this assembly and what is the role, is not the role that we now play here, so that's the day-to-day political who is smarter, so little and all, but whether we have a response to what Croatia's attitude towards production is, so according to nuclear energy, and in which group we European countries are going to put ourselves, the one led by France or Germany that is now, imagine, I am very interested in this government where green liberals and socials are now going to see what they are going to do where some things, for some things they put their feet in the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91062	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Renate Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91063	I would like to thank you, Vice President, honorary Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. She'd agree with my predecessor. She's very well-opened the problem ahead of us. We're going to go cheerleading today to determine whether we're for nuclear energy or not, instead of by meaning cognitive behavioral therapy suggests when you always, when you want to make a decision, if you're just trying to get it through your mind you'll never make the right decision, but if you put it on paper and put it on one side for and against then you'll actually be amazed if you emotionally thought you were for another decision, and when you got it for and against you knew what decision you were. The Republic of Croatia therefore has its development strategy and in this development strategy we know how much we get from tourism. We must not ignore that part, and we must not ignore the shape of the country either, so wherever we put the waste disposal center, the warehouse or wherever we put some kind of nuclear power plant, it would be very close to our neighbours. We have to think about it anyway. These are the parameters that are important and crucial in making some decisions. I must admit that this morning on the Committee on Health and Social Policy I was a little surprised when I heard that we don't have a system of radiological or nuclear incidents, so we're in a big, big problem, so it's just a team, it's just getting ready. And now imagine when with us, so we should have implemented the EU directive, and we are so slowly implementing that directive that even now, in this bill, we put most of the decisions, we put in, we put the whole series of directives into regulation through regulations. This law would, it's a great grudge to this bill, it should be complete and far more resolved without regulations. When we're strategically determined, we need to know the mental sets of our people, but we have to give this time opportunity to the citizens because we're all here because of citizens to say their opinions, they say that. In the first reading, so in the first reading we saw that the MUP that is part of the government, so the sector for radiological and nuclear security is practically now under the government's directive. We don't have any more independent bodies to rely on and there's a big, big problem that only an independent body can tell us what kind of situation we are in and what's going on, it can't be connected to the government of the Republic of Croatia, so they have scissors and skirts and everything and literally no regulatory body that we once had at the National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security that was an independent body. I hope it's an independent body that needs everything. Of course we are concerned about the disposal of radioactive waste, and we have now heard that a warehouse will be built, not a dump of high-radioactive waste, that this warehouse will be at the site of Cerkezovac, which is very close to the Republic of BiH in Trvaninska Gora, so this area is still steep. We believe, of course, that the analysis will be of quality and that it will certainly not be slow that the warehouse was built properly, well built and that it can stop any leaks of this, this waste group that we're talking about, means medium and low radioactive waste. Is this the happiest location, where we're working out, whether there's going to be an independent body that will monitor that construction, so that we're really as citizens sure there won't be any nuclear incidents that we really don't need. That's something that's very questionable given this lewdness around some of the solutions that we're seeing today. She would therefore return to the fact that perhaps we shouldn't open up such a simple and easily certain area, propose the development of nuclear energy in the Republic of Croatia because I'm really not sure that our citizens will accept it, but that it is good for a long-term strategic strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. I think as well as my colleague that these two laws should have been united here and that we should have discussed them together because it's a law of merged vessels and by talking about one topic of the other. I was on the board this morning when I asked what the phase of building that warehouse was I couldn't get an answer because it was in the second, in the second ministry. It would be good if there was a second ministry now and if we got it, we'd get those concrete answers. I also have to admit that this morning on the Health Committee you didn't mention these thousands, 1,130 m3 means low radioactive waste that we're taking over from Krško, and I'm really wondering how they're going to take care of, or whether it's pollinated enough, whether we need to mix up more, where we're going to drive it, and how much it's going to cost us that ride. So it's all to be searched out and known and of course we'd like you to have given us this law with all the relevant data because then we could say that we support it or we don't support it or I don't know what. So here I'm just asking you to fill out this information that we're missing, and so we can all think together about who we represent here and how our citizens see the development of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure we wouldn't say hello in Dalmatia. We had one failed attempt at the Vira nuke and this was a great resistance, of course not everything that was, which was then those years, but we still have to take a strategy and agree with our colleague that this means we must have a consensus when we make such big decisions, but also a decision of citizens who will give their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91064	Next is the debate on behalf of Attorneys' Club of the Homeland Movement of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91065	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Yeah, I think we're really almost all thinking here, and it seems to me that we're mostly saying the same thing from this pay phone, we have two likable laws, both in scale and by meaning, so we could put them in two debates without a problem. I don't like to get out of the subject, and often because of that, and I have a warning, but the fact is that we've run through seven social package laws in one afternoon, and here we're going to open up enough time to discuss two completely technical things in each of our points. But here, since there is absolutely no dispute over all of this, we have to move forward, so we can just have a little bit of what I said to Mr. Secretary of State and say in the replica. So the fact is that we live in a world where more and more energy is needed from day to day. When I speak to the world then unfortunately I think of an industrially developed world whose production plants need extremely much energy from various sources, unfortunately for us in Croatia as regards the production of the great results of our governments so far we have managed to almost ruin it all, so we generally need electricity about one of the better developed municipalities in the west but it is not the subject of this conversation. We have seen today that the World Organisation for Nature Protection has addressed the EU and the European Commission with a requirement to withdraw one of their statements saying that nuclear energy belongs to the social environment and whatever acceptable means of obtaining energy, and that is where we must all face in some way and with our own little hypocrite. We are aware that we need energy, we need energy in increasing and larger quantities, but can we, with all our wind power plants that have again here in Croatia a special omen and special importance, can we feed our Croatia's energy, wind power, wind or anything? We certainly can't, so we need these classic ways of getting energy. Croatia's fortunately has quite a system of hydropower plants, but we also know that we have Krško in common ownership with Slovenians from which we get if I am not mistaken, let the respected Mr Katic correct me but somewhere around 25% of the electricity we spend annually. Now, whether or not we're going to be hypocritical is also the location of the Cherkevac. It's like about a few years ago, when I was with Zagorje, they made a decision to build a junkyard. No doubt, yes, I do, but where? All the big ones can, but not in my village. That is how this location of Cerkezovac seems to me to be about us in Croatia in a good position, on this Trgovska gora, at the very border. But we know for ourselves what the pressures of BiH neighbours are. I saw the other day and their air footage. The fact is, this location is really not a mile from the river Una. Of course it doesn't suit them at all, I understand. But we're a sovereign state and we're going to make our dump where we think it's best and proper. As far as the dump itself is concerned, I believe it will be built and put into circulation, i.e. in working by all applicable world standards, so in principle nothing should happen here in a long, long time. It's hard to say and I know that many of you will raise your head or bump your nose, but the fact is that nuclear energy today is one of the safer ways to get energy. We know for ourselves that we had a terrible tragedy in Chernobyl. We also had a problem with the Japanese nuclear power plant if I'm not mistaken for Fukushima, who died of tsunamis. The isolated incidents of fact is nuclear energy is extremely safe and represents one serious well you for many. So, through a certain investment really on a long, long range of years, nuclear energy can provide economic, in this case energy independence. For those of you who want to get a little deeper into this problem, I suggest you visit some of the websites where nuclear energy is being discussed, especially the construction of new nuclear power plants. That's where I came across an interesting piece of information that orders books for all nuclear power plants are currently filled for the next 35 years. So now, even if we wanted to, tomorrow we decided to build a nuke here, we won't be able to have it until 2060. Obviously, the world has said that, they are what they are, they are dangerous but nuclear energy, or nuclear power plants we have to have because at a growing and growing energy consumption, they are for now one good, not of course perfect, but at this point a compromise solution. I'm going to say something in the second point when we're going to discuss the fund. We have nothing to say about these twelve points and this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Radiological Nuclear Security Act, the House of Representatives Club of the Homeland Movement will support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91066	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91067	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, I would like to remind myself that in 2014, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy of radiological nuclear security for the period 2017 to 2025, i.e. the Government adopted a National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy until 2025, with a view to 2060, the main objective of radiological and nuclear security of human and environmental protection against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. This goal is aimed at individual and collective protection of people and environmental protection. Of course, within as little as possible, the work of the plant or the activities that can lead to an increase in the risk of ionising radiation is limited. In order to achieve this together, it is necessary to monitor people's exposure to ionising radiation and the release of radioactive substances into the environment, to reduce the likelihood of events that may lead to loss controlled by sources of ionising radiation, to mitigate the consequences of such events if they occur. And this all comes together by respecting the ten principles of radiological nuclear security. I'll just mention them for a little while. This is a responsibility for security, the role of state administration, the management and management of security, the justification of the facility and the activities, optimisation of protection, the restriction of the risk to individuals, the protection of current and future generations, the prevention of extraordinary events, or incidents. That's what we've heard. So we don't have that yet. The ninth principle is preparedness and response in the event of an emergency and the tenth principle of protection measures to reduce existing exposure risks to radiation and the risk of exposure to radiation that are not under reasonable supervision. The existing Radiological Nuclear Safety Act lays down measures for radiological nuclear safety, nuclear security measures, nuclear recording and surveillance to protect individuals, society and the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with ionising radiation sources, nuclear activities, radioactive waste management activities, used sources and nuclear security of ionising radiation sources, nuclear plants. So it would all be in line with this existing strategy that I have cited. So, this is now how we heard the fourth novels of the law and this is exactly the law where we are now discussing the establishment of a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste as a founding unit of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The financing of radioactive waste is also prescribed, i.e. how to finance the operations of the centre. So we still haven't really got an answer on how much it's going to cost together, and as far as we've heard from our colleague and the last debate, and now you're not all homogeneous in the ruling part. Because here is a colleague, Petir, who believes that such a centre should not be in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, a dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel is mentioned at the location of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which should start in 2021 and will be active for at least 60 years after the completion of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. However, as far as this facility is concerned, he obviously hasn't started work yet, the question is whether an environmental impact study is completed, I guess you'll answer that, all the necessary documentation, and I say we should start working in 2021, and I don't think there's anything left of it yet. Furthermore, the law now stresses that the final responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel generated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is to be laid down, which will not be prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund Act. The responsibility of the Republic of Croatia shall also be prescribed for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel and used sources resulting from the territory of the Republic of Croatia in cases where the causer cannot provide funds for its disposal. There is now a question of putting salt on the line if the causer or owners are unknown or if they are known and do not pay the compensation, so the question is that the state will subsequently settle down for those who are not in bankruptcy or liquidation, are mentioned here real estate, movables, where the state will register, however I say the question is how will all together the state settle down, so obviously we will all finance it together from the state budget funds. Of course, it's a priority to take care of that waste, but in any case, we need to minimize and prevent situations like this from knowing who the cause is. Furthermore, it is a good thing that infringements or penalties are prescribed, but it is a question of whether everything will be monitored and controlled. As far as the existing disposal of radioactive waste is concerned, it is currently going two ways on the board. On the one hand, it is a return to the manufacturer if there is a contract so far, let's say it works in most cases and in the care of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the quantity. So for now we have 2 closed these dumps, right, one is the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and the Institute of Medical Research. Croatia took over its part in the National Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste from the Krško Sea until 2023. Of course, there is not only the question of Krško so there is all the other radioactive waste from other sources of ionizing radiation. So in medicine, science, military and public use, that is, this whole institutional waste, so that it is really necessary to adopt quality plans and strategies on this issue. Now, as far as the dump or the center of Cherkevac is concerned, so it obviously hasn't given up, there are no alternative solutions. So now our question is whether we really have all the necessary permits for the center right now and in a little bit on the web from the day before one article where they say we're still working on it, so here's the question of whether a study of environmental impact is finished, whether we have a positive view of the profession given the earthquake or the blast area. Apparently there are no alternative locations because, as I said, it was stated that the Cherkezovec did not give up. The question is what is the capacity of the future Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste, whether it is definitely communicated with the public or local population, which will be a benefit for the local population at all, or for the units of self-government, how much compensation they will receive, it is also unknown to us until the end. And the question I asked last time means how much money has been spent so far? How much did I manage to get from the analysis of the zero radiological state was $3.87 million, so for the public relations of 3 million kuna, the project documentation so that the study of earthquake activity is 1.8 million kuna, so that's quite a number of million kunas, and we don't really know if it's still a definitive sum, or if there's more? I hope you'll tell us something about it. And finally, the fact is that we are today importing 30 to 40% of electricity according to the data that I encountered 16% of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Do we, as Croatia, use enough renewable energy sources, invest enough in existing plants, we still have fossil gas fuels, etc. Here I am, as Međimurka, happy to say that we are getting the biggest solar power plant in the country. And finally, the question of the Republic of Croatia's position on future nuclear facilities, I've read a lot here that here's something that the profession asks a question about, and we actually have a definitive view of it as a state, so we would really like to hear more about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91068	There's a final club debate coming up. The following individual debate is the first to be reported by a respected representative, Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91069	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. A topic touched here today, I didn't think it would open in terms of the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia in terms of nuclear energy. So when we talk about negative sides, then the positive are both security and stability and the purest actual source of energy, so when we talk about negative sides, and again from the context and perspective of the Croatian people, we have to put here and our sloppyness as a negative side, especially for a nuclear power plant, if it's seen through certain projects, for example, some hydropower plants that we've already built on the mountain streams that have actually turned out to be a huge failure for reasons that neither energy, economically, therefore, satisfy investment and all that money that was invested in these hydropower plants. Another factor in such strategic decisions is the geostrategic position or assessment of certain conflicts that may occur in certain parts of the world so that, for example, Croatia has been historically on the part of Europe where the conflicts took place and this should come into some kind of evaluation when building such a nuclear power plant. The crash went well, we can be grateful. But let's say for some kind of construction, that should really be considered. A very good example, and yet a country that has not chosen nuclear energy is Australia. Australia is a country that primarily has ore, uranium, has technology, has a lot of money, has a geostrategic position to afford such a single project. And they have a nuclear reactor that deals with medical equipment production a little south of Sidney. However, they did not go in that direction, and today I asked the embassy in Australia that was here in the Parliament. So, they only opted for renewable energy sources, although it is already from these studies that they have been doing on the orders of European conservatives and other political groups, so experts. So they came up with data that, for example, one Czech Republic, one Netherlands won't be able to produce electricity for its own purposes only from the sun and from the wind because their countries are too small, so it's a question, and the needs are very high. So the question is whether this is the direction Croatia should go, so all of it is to put strategically on renewable energy sources such as water and sun and everything else as well as wind. Or we really should go in the direction of the nuclear power plant, given that a lot of this will depend on actually these three hydropower plants, which, pardoning three nuclear power plants working in Finland, France and Hungary, are also doing the nuclear power plant, since they have estimated that they need this strategically. If these projects show that they are cost-effective in the long run, certain nuclear waste solutions have occurred that Finland has reached where geological sites are located, so they dig up almost a hundred feet underground near this new three-point nuclear reactor. If this works out, Croatia can think in that direction and go, so that we can strategically position ourselves to get electricity from the nuclear power plant. When considering a nuclear power plant you should think again strategically, so who are our neighbours – Slovenia and Hungary. Hungary is becoming an energy centre for this part of Europe. Just look at the map of one PLINACRO, enough to look at the HOPS map, and you can see there that all the power lines, that is, most of the gas infrastructure is coming in, that is, entering Hungary and Hungary, are now working on another nuclear power plant. This can lead to high dependence on imports of energy and energy from Hungary, and Croatia should also be positioned not to go that way. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91070	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec. She's gone, she's losing her right. Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91071	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. Several representatives of opposition clubs have raised the question of how Croatia will position itself on the energy map, how we will move on to renewable energy sources and whether we will engage in further financing or participation in the construction of new nuclear power plants or building on their capacities. And indeed, as counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash said, that is the topic that we should discuss, even in the context of amendments and additions to this law. However, it is in vain to point out or ask for such a debate as long as we have representatives of applicants who are unable to comply with the titles of the laws themselves and the implementing bodies themselves with what the law says. So let me be clear and decoded. Therefore, in the light of the reasons for these amendments and additions, it states that this law regulates the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources, the establishment of a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste as a founding unit of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for the financing of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. Now, according to the third revision of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme adopted on 14 July 2020, it is therefore concluded that the dry storage facility of spent nuclear fuel at the location of Krško nuclear power plant will start operating in 2021 and is assumed to be active at least 60 years after the completion of the work of Krško nuclear power plant, so the cost of building the power plant and the implementation of the spent nuclear fuel transfer from the pool to that dry storage facility in the period from 2019 to '43. will be financed by co-owners. Meanwhile, spent nuclear fuel from the Krško nuclear power plant will continue to be stored at the location of the power plant itself, so this centre will not provide spent nuclear fuel from the Krško nuclear power plant. Therefore, in the provisions of this law relating to the centre, it is necessary to leave out this disposal of spent nuclear fuel. I repeat, the centre is the foundation unit of the fund, which in its name has the word Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel from the Krško nuclear power plant. Okay, what the hell? What the hell? Can you please explain to me, Mr. Proposer, whether you are able to even match the fund's name with what the fund should be doing? I understand what might have been written or said in the reasoning of the law, but you didn't do it. And on the one hand, if we define how we will handle radioactive waste, which, for example, occurs at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute or in some institutions, is one thing. It is clear as a day that Croatia must take care of it somewhere, but if we are talking about Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from Krško nuclear power plant, I ask you to be clearer and decided, to say what will be stored in the location itself, or in the nuclear power plant itself. Which will move into that dry storage facility of spent nuclear fuel that I'm seeing isn't anywhere in the bandages yet. So, even Slovenia did not do what it was meant to do and I ask you where Croatia is, whether radioactive waste from Krško nuclear power plant in Croatia will be stored or not. Because it contradicts me if in the very reason of the law you say it will not be done in Croatia, and you continue to leave the name of the fund that says that the fund that serves to provide nuclear residue and nuclear fuel to the Krško nuclear power plant through the centre. So one thing with the other just doesn't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91072	We've got a replica of a respected representative of the Brinkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91073	Dear MPs, here you are. You've read everything nicely. The Fund is the name of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants. So the fund is financing decommissioning and care. With us at the reference centre when built on the Shop Mountain, medium and low radioactive waste will be stored, and spent nuclear fuel will be stored in Slovenia. But that, we still have to finance their storage and decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel that will be in Slovenia as well as our radioactive waste that will be stored in Croatia. You understand? It's nothing wrong, and on the other hand, the Secretary of State here defends another law. He defends the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, so it's a question for the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91074	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91075	Well, thank you, pal, now you've explained everything quite nicely, and the fact that these two laws are now clear to me why a united debate has not been held. A little bit more blurry, a little more cloudy water and gray smoke as HDZ does in everything it does. You should have made clear and decadent what the Fund is for, what the centre is for as its design unit and how it will be implemented. Well, that's quite well explained, in fact, not to mention that next point, which of course is not the subject of this debate, but I guess it'll come up on the agenda when we talk about reports from all these competent institutions about how to collect excise duties, how it's financed through HEP, and who controls those who collect all these huge revenues in these institutions, and the executive part is still missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91076	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. The area of radiological and nuclear security in this form of the law was regulated in 2013 when we harmonised Croatian legislation with the EU acquis related to Chapter 15 of Energy. The Euroatom Treaty lays down safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the population. These basic standards were first regulated in 1959 and now we are actually implementing two EU directives, one from 2011 and 2013. The first Directive 2011/2017 speaks to Euroatom on the establishment of a Community framework for responsible and secure management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, and the second Directive speaks of basic safety standards for protection against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation. This first Directive of 2011. A Community framework for ensuring responsible and safe management of radioactive waste and spent fuel is established to avoid imposing unnecessary burden on future generations. It shall ensure that Member States adopt appropriate national measures for high levels of safety in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel to protect workers and the population from the threat of ionising radiation. It shall also ensure the provision of the necessary public information and public participation in relation to the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, taking into account security and information protection issues. As Directive 2013/59 provides for minimum rules, Member States should be free to adopt or maintain stricter security measures without prejudice to freedom of movement of goods and services on the internal market. However, basic safety standards must take into account the recommendations of the International Commission for Radiological Protection. It is necessary to distinguish existing, planned and exceptional exposure situations. This would cover all radiation exposure situations and all exposure categories to radiation, i.e. professional, public and medical exposure to radiation. The basic standards should include maximum permitted doses in accordance with appropriate safety, and the purpose of this Directive is to prescribe uniform dose limits. Industry that processes radioactive material found in nature and which is extracted from the earth’s crust exposes workers to increased doses of radiation, and if that material is released into the environment, also one part of the population. The latest epidemiological data show a statistically significant increase in the risk of lung cancer due to prolonged exposure to indoor radon, and national action plans are necessary to address long-term risks of exposure to radon. It is recognised that the combination of smoking and high exposure to radon poses a significantly greater risk of lung cancer for an individual than any of these factors themselves and that smoking increases the risk of exposure to radon to the population level. Due to significant technological and scientific progress in health care, there has been a noticeable increase in patient exposure. In this respect, it is necessary to stress the need to justify exposure to radiation for health reasons including exposure of individuals to radiation without symptoms of disease, and to facilitate the conditions for information to be given to patients, recording and reporting on doses and medical procedures, as well as the use of diagnostic reference levels and availability of devices showing the dose. The main way to ensure adequate protection of patients undergoing medical radio diagnostics and radio therapy is to ensure a high level of expertise and a clear definition of the responsibilities and tasks of all experts involved in exposure to radiation for medical purposes. With regard to the management of emergency exposure situations, the current system based on intervention levels should be replaced by a comprehensive system involving an assessment of potential emergency exposure situations, the overall emergency management system, emergency response plans and the pre-planned strategy for managing each assumed event. As there are still unresolved problems with abandoned sources of radioactivity, the conditions for notifying accidents with abandoned sources of radioactivity or contaminated metal should be introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91078	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, so here today we have listened several times and received various information or information or conflicting information, each of us has its own view of the text of this law and of the law that will follow in the next debate, but I believe that you agree with me that it is important to point out once again that Croatia is obliged to take care of waste, that the centre that will be founded will provide low and medium radioactive waste, and that what we all fear will be taken care of, above all I mean spent nuclear fuel, will be taken care of at the site of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and that, of course, Croatia will finance this waste management through its fund. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91080	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Simic, when it comes to radioactive waste, so four are categories. This very low he goes as standard municipal waste, the tall goes into deep underground warehouses and this when we talk about, therefore, radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, it's about low and medium radioactive waste. Croatia has an obligation until 2023. Of course, the question of location was different, but somewhere along the strictest criteria came to one location. This should also mean that these potential two buried warehouses, again of a temporary character, are forecasted somewhere in 30 to 40 years, are produced annually by about 30 m3, there were speeches and this institutional radioactive waste which is overall as the secretary of state said it was somewhere, slightly more than 11 m3 which will also be stored at that radioactive waste disposal centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91082	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91083	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, here is a prerequisite for you to meet safety standards when it comes to human and environmental protection against radioactive waste because we simply, like all other countries, have radioactive waste, we need to take care of it, but we also need to take care of the safety conditions of waste disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91084	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Simicevic, here today are those who do not deal closely with this area who could learn that there is therefore radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, that one is stored in one another in another place. When we talk about radioactive waste, so it is not only from a nuclear power plant but also from an institutional radioactive waste that is being used, we know today both in diagnostics and in treating different disorders that should also be taken care of and it is simply without one system solution, without solving and applying the strategy and the national programme we cannot think about a serious centre for the treatment of radioactive waste, when we talk about a temporary and permanent character that will need to be thought about when Krško Nuclear Power Plant stops working.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91086	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91087	Dear fellow, here you have mentioned radiological diagnostics and radiological therapy, and now I'm interested in public clinics and hospitals here I guess everything is under a lot of control, which is with private clinics or privates who carry out these diagnostic and therapeutic methods, is there all 100% under control because what I do have is not exactly all the way of knowing or hunching that it should be, and it's about delicate materials or delicate treatments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91088	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Zekanovic, there is no reason why there is a difference between state and private institutions. I think that in the competent authorities dealing with this problem, if you want to do so also in this scientific professional aspect or in this inspection surveillance, top experts are working on it and they do not see any difference in whether a particular apparatus is owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia. So I think that there are some speculations that can cause certain skeptics and concerns from the citizens. There must be high standards and the owner of the apparatus on which the diagnostics or therapy is carried out should not be relevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91090	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91091	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. So I'm going to refer to this part of where you talked about therapy and I'm going to define myself to the part where you talked about radiotherapy. There's been a lot of data in public lately on how long patients have been waiting for it. Among other data that I've come up with are devices whose life span is eight years, not a small number of those whose work is even after 15 years. So would it be interesting to know if they can work at the age of 15? For example, at KBC, there are five of these devices that are two, three of them all the time out of power. So what I'm interested in when he stops doing he has a certain procedure to take care of, and we have to make sure that this waste is taken care of. Because what worries me, and you probably have a lot of data, is that we have devices that last eight years, and they still work for up to 15 years, and that we treat it as easily as we can from the health ministry's budget for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91092	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Mrak-Taritash is true that in the Republic of Croatia there are also linear accelerators that are older than anticipated and that there are waiting lists. We had a problem at the tumour clinic, which is here today according to media and people who work in these health institutions for purely administrative reasons. The machine is back in operation. Therefore, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees the renewal of equipment and there are large, large resources foreseen. What is a potential problem, but we simply have to respect all procedures. Unfortunately, it will still have to wait and that full realization should only be completed in 2025. Until then, unfortunately, we'll have to manage on these machines that are currently in operation and that rarely break down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91094	Thank you. Next, she will speak to her respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91095	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As I have already said on behalf of the club, I will repeat once again I am sorry that the debate is not united for the simple reason that some of the problems that are being solved in this law have absolutely to do with the other law that we are going to discuss behind this because it should be united. It would be easier, simpler and faster. But what's there is that I'm not boring myself and I'm not repeating myself, so I'm going to put an end to it, and I'm going to finish it. Do we have radioactive waste? We do. Are we still going to have it? We will. Will all medical appliances and in a number of other things really have their own lifetime and then have to be properly cared for? He'll have to. And now we have form, we have content. In the form of these two laws, we will provide for a set of laws, we will take certain EU directives, we will see how it should be regulated, we will predict how it should be regulated, and then we will come to the content itself to see what we are prepared to do and what we are prepared to do. Since the debates are separate, I'm going to do a little bit of how it goes in the spatial planning system and what we've done so far and what we need to do here, talk there. And here I will repeat once again this law that speaks of nuclear security, so it speaks of radiological and nuclear security. Say it again and ask all of you. Of course, there are some laws here that cause more debate in the House, and some laws that cause something less. I read from this law the problem we have and what problems we should finally make a decision and see further. We live in a time when inflation is evident to be present, when it is evident that gas and electricity prices will go to the sky, and it is not only that people are afraid, but are real and when it is an energy problem. And we live in a time, two years ago, three years ago that we've been discussing or someone's been discussing nuclear energy as energy, so I'm talking about nuclear energy, I'm talking about in the context of this nuclear security as a nuclear energy that's desirable, I think you'd have to imagine that in some option when going on, when pre-election campaigns once said it was energy to be thought about. And I don't think anybody has any PR or no advice or advice. Today, at European Commission level, natural gas and nuclear energy are scheduled under certain conditions as environmentally acceptable sources. And he says very clearly, undoubtedly regardless of translation from English to Croatian, he says: "it paves the way for large private investments in such projects". A small country such as Croatia, which in terms of energy, is closely linked to other sources, and some other countries would be at the level and these are policy levels, should adopt a political position, and it seems to me that this attitude should not be overvoted, not by strengthening muscle and not by showing who it is for what and who it is for liberal policies, who it is for green policies, who it is for conservative policies. What is the position of the Republic of Croatia regarding nuclear energy? What is our attitude today in 2022? 2030 is tomorrow in terms of some of the results of the planning and everything else. Not to say we should know what kind of country and what we want to have in 2050. This is the moment when we talked about the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about the Resistance and recovery plan, which is the political position of the ruling and which is the political position of us here who are willing to argue over some other things related to nuclear energy. Is nuclear energy as energy desirable because when you look at the reasons for and against, against, what are the reasons against nuclear energy? The reasons are that the production of radioactive waste, the problem of providing radioactive waste, and the reasons are public perceptions that know relatively little about it. Already some EU countries have settled, we have countries that have settled alongside France and some of the north, we have Germany that are slowly moving back. The debate on this law seems to me [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that there is a need to convert the debate about what [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I said. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91096	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91097	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you're actually talking about an important topic. It's kind of an impression when here, we see now that gas, nuclear energy is environmentally acceptable exports, on the other hand it's talking about renewable energy sources that should have a larger share, we've set ourselves up by 2030 to plan about 32 to 36%, 2050, up to 65% of renewable energy sources, and then you have on one side, as you said, states, the type of France that has a nuclear share of 42%, Sweden 32%, and yet, renewable sources, Sweden and Latvia that dominate, we're here up to 28%. HEP says the plan is to raise renewable sources from 35 to 50% by 2030. So there's some kind of data and plans forest. We really don't know as Croatia what direction we're going to go, whether we're really raising renewable energy sources or going to a larger share of nuclear, so here, I welcome what we're talking about, and it would be good to and the ruling give an opinion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91098	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91099	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. So life has not begun with us the parliamentary representatives who are in this House nor will they end with us. He left a lot earlier. In 2000, I received a calendar that is one of my favorite calendars, which tells me about 12 different sources of renewable energy that Croatia can use, which is shown in one convenient way. So Hrvoje Fire was then a radio publication that is renewable energy sources and how it can be used. Then when the first indicators showed up, water wasn't renewable energy sources and then, not because of us, but because of some other countries, water became a renewable source of energy, to get the data we gave ourselves. So there's a lot, a lot of factors. So, when we invest in renewable energy sources, we need to see whose production and economy we encourage. Do We Encourage the Economy of a Land? Who produces it rather than his own, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So a one-signed answer. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91100	The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91101	... Vice President, dear colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here, you have found interestingly that this bill was a few years ago, it would probably be an opponent of nuclear energy, and today we have almost a consensus in HS, and everyone is actually talking about that we may need nuclear energy, or tomorrow some nuclear reactor in the territory of Croatia, so here I will even comment that it is from those clubs and representatives who have otherwise been skeptical of scientific achievements, especially those in health and medicine, even of them we heard today, here, that they are also supporters of nuclear nuclear energy. About the pace, about the seas, about how things actually change in a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91102	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91103	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Zekanovic, in a decade's time when you look back, you'll be very surprised how things have changed with individual representatives in their positions and everything else, so maybe your own attitudes have changed from one to the other, and I've had a chance to look at it from the front lines and I have a chance to keep looking at it. But I'm reading it to you, there are some things in this world that are like fashion, and at one point it's wearing purple and all the new purple, and then at one hour it's wearing, I don't know, green and everybody's wearing green. And it's always worn black, so whenever you dress in black or in some dark gray or dark color, it's always worn. So that fashion and go where everyone, here and me, it's convenient, but somehow having your own attitude is a little less convenient. I always think decisions should be made reasonably, that there are some things to decide on, and that you never need to do anything like that, or throw away, the one who's willing to throw away without criteria is ready and something else without criteria to accept. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91104	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91105	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Dark-Taritash. Here, my colleague Zekanovic mentioned that there was a consensus in HS, so I just don't see that consensus, but even if there was a consensus theoretically, which, of course, isn't, would be in vain for us because we don't have what? We don't have a plan, we don't have an implementation. This is what does not exist either through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, it does not exist through the National Development Strategy that we adopted last year. So having a plan means knowing exactly what we're going to invest in, how much we're going to invest and where it's going to be. Even when it comes to renewable energy sources, when it comes to hydropower plants, when it comes to wind power plants, we don't really have a clear picture where Croatia is in 10, 20 or 50 years, let alone when it comes to the northern and southern gas pipelines or, here, whether we're going to be bold and co-finance further upgrades of nuclear plants in our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91106	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91107	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. So, I'm always advocating and I'm going to advocate as long as I'm going to act in the world of politics, that somehow you should always have an idea and you should have a vision. Where do you want to be in 2050? That this idea or vision is extremely important, let's say, in the education system, that you don't educate people you won't need in 2050, and then you educate them for some other countries or other countries. Likewise, we are all ready to react together when the problem is here. We now have a problem, we have a power problem, we have a energy problem, we have a price problem, and now we're actually solving the result, and we need to discuss the cause and very rarely or very much when we solve the cause. So, it's not a topic, the theme is that you need to know how you need to secure something and you need to start on time to ensure it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91108	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Mrak-Taritaš, you mentioned the reasons that are being questioned when a new nuclear power plant is being built, there is, of course, the issue of the seismic trus area of Zagreb and the surrounding area in the context of the expansion of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. I agree with you that perhaps a few years ago presenting nuclear energy as green energy would have caused some ridicule. We also now have large advocates and renewable energy sources in those countries that have long begun, like SR Germany, you have today in the fields of deinstalled wind power plants with those big propellers, solar panels that also have their own lifetime, which should also be taken care of, so we don't talk about getting the rarest metals needed for these renewable energy sources, so I would still go to some golden middle, although that's the hardest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91110	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91111	Thank you very much. Buddy Cell, I can't agree with you. I'm gonna use this minute just to convince the conversation I had with my son. My son doctored on engines that use different kinds of energy, so both gasoline and hydrogen and electric car and everything else, and then I don't understand it, but of course I'm curious because I think if I get the information I'll be smarter. And I tell him you're going to buy a car now, what kind of car you're going to buy, he says I'm going to buy a diesel, I'm going to tell him how you're going to buy an electric diesel and everything, he says I don't need a car for the city, I need a car for, when I go somewhere and he says I'm going to get another three or four years old. I'll drive, and then I'll wait because the electric car's a charger's problem, the problem is taking care of it, the problem is that right now we're still in the loading docks for free, and it won't be when it wants to, so the truth is always somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91112	Thank you, thank you. Now the honourable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91113	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to connect to my colleague Mrak-Taritash, where all the Turks here and the little mujo, so that some topics become the mainstream theme and then at one point in this HS, I'm going to turn off the topic a little bit, but on the subject of the law itself, we're all talking about superlatives about wind power plants, how the wind energy is the best, and in the end it's actually going to turn out to be one of the most expensive kilowatts that permanently mutilates, and I've talked about it many times, the landscape of our Croatian homeland. And then you have one nuclear energy used by all the smart states, the Americans and the Japanese and the French, someone mentioned them here today, they have a huge majority of their energy from nuclear power plants, but we're not smarter, we're going to put wind power stations anywhere we want on every hill because it's better than someone else's dear colleagues and colleagues. So today the cheapest and safest and best and purest kilowatt of electricity comes from nuclear power plants, point, point. Is there a risk? There is, and that's why we have this bill... the old though this bill includes other things including all that radioactive material and all those possible risks related to radiotherapy, some kind of radio diagnostic in medicine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would like you to have explained what I just said in another way. That's when Homo habitats and Homo erectus were there 200 to 300,000 years ago. Then they discovered fire and they all ran away and looked at it as a god with awe. Later they got used to that fire, so here we are today, and we don't even know how to consume food, meat that isn't thermalally processed, or we almost don't know how to consume it differently, and then the electricity happened. There, at the end of the 19th century, Nikola Tesla discovered an alternating current, so even then many looked and said what it was, it's dangerous, it's like, it's like that, so here it is today we all depend on that electricity. So some things should simply be digested. However, we will often look to those countries in the far west on some issues that are not good and we will copy something because I am sure that it is not good and okay while on the matter and a logical conclusion that this is the best and cheapest energy and we will not. So let this debate move a little bit, not your ministry, but that ministry that's just gonna come here, so that in this direction it's thinking, that there's some kind of competition opening up, to find some places to build or upgrade an existing, existing nuclear power plant, because I'm going to repeat, the best, cheapest energy source. So, let's be open to new technologies, let's be careful whenever it comes to that, but I still have to point out that other than that Fukushima in Japan and Chernobyl something earlier that wasn't there, that there was no problem with that energy. With this, Karlić mentioned perhaps some scientific achievements, and today here we can read online about fusion, who knows, maybe it will happen soon, let's not be afraid of it if tomorrow this technology is available because it will definitely be the energy future of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91114	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91115	The Honorable chairman, respected state secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, so as MP Miletic initially said we are talking here for the sake of the people. We understand here what it's all about when we explain and listen to the presentation of some new law in this case of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. So if we speak to the people, I wonder why our representatives do not say what is but always somehow we do not know, so we do not know what is the attitude, we are powerless and everything else. Well, I think for the past 4-5 years whoever has ever listened to Minister Coric when he answers the question of which energy direction the Republic of Croatia has decided, I think it's clear to everyone that he has repeated so far that we have decided on clean renewable energy sources. For that solar, wind power plants, geothermal springs. I think it's clear to everyone and that it's repeated all the time. However, it does not cross that what we have existing especially in situations such as now di is energy extremely expensive do not use what we have boredom. We've got a lot of energy coming from the hydrocenter and we're trying to hold it. I've been listening to some experts who say we need two more reversible hydropowers to reach their maximum potential. We also have 50% ownership of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. 50% of the owners are us. And we're using that good, safe energy back in 1983. It satisfies 16% of our total needs and therefore does not use that energy when we already have it. Normally, our property and our right to cause and obligations, and our obligation is that we also have to put this radioactive waste somewhere and there is no tension as you said with Slovenia. We and Slovenia also have an international contract and a social contract that has been in effect since 2003, and under these contracts, a fund has been established to finance the decommissioning of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants. And that fund works and it stands well. Now, we like, our obligation will be so now it's, to me it seems to be in a state of '83. to date total production of 2,405 m3 radioactive waste. And that's, half of it is ours by the end of 2043, it's gonna grow. In addition, we have institutional radioactive waste we heard will also grow to some number. And that's why they've been since '88. For years, he's looking for a location for a radioactive waste disposal center. And we are now on a good path to be this preferred location in the Shop Mountain where this radioactive waste of medium and low radioactive waste would provide for me permanently. They would not take care of high-radio nuclear waste because Slovenia has taken the obligation to take care of it, but we still have to finance it, even in Slovenia. Now let's move on, why and what's the center gonna look like? It will be done according to the standards of the profession, but only for comparisons to work, the German day today did not determine whether it would be the final, final bed of high-radioactive nuclear fuel, and must be determined by 2031. Currently, mid- and low radioactive waste is located in Germany at 30 locations, and 12 power plants plus two dumps in AAUS and part of Gorleben are highly radioactive waste. It is proposed to be Gorleben as a permanent.../incomprehensible... for the storage of high-radioactive nuclear waste, but this has not yet been established. Also, only these 2 existing ones in Germany Ahre and Morsleben have already stored 600,000 cc's of low and medium radioactive waste and.../incomprehensible/... would have stored another 300,000 m3 of radioactive, high and medium radioactive nuclear waste. So that's the problem the Germans defined a long time ago. The wealth of energy enjoyed by two generations with this waste will continue to be plagued by 40,000 generations. But on the other hand, we have to be responsible, we have to accept what we used and take care of in the best appropriate way, which is in the manner of a good master.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91116	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91117	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, respected colleagues say these Final Proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, so we can talk about energy, but about some other point and some other topic, and here the disposal of radioactive waste and now the question is whether this law can respond to this challenge, which is that the Croatian State is a radioactive waste that produces low-radioactive hazardous waste, products can be taken care of. So we're talking about taking care of, not the energy sources that are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91118	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91119	You're right, so radiological and nuclear security means far beyond radioactive waste itself. But it's every time we mention radioactive waste, it sounds a little bit sensational, so we can talk about it and we can scare the people out of me and we'll give it to me, and it's not true. So these are the serious considerations that have been working on this for many years and we are finally coming to a phase that we will be able to take a comfortable commitment to the accommodation and care of radioactive waste and on the other hand if someone mentions BiH or says it's not good that BiH is close to the border with BiH, so BiH has the same obligation to take care of its radioactive waste and why we don't make money on it. My thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91120	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91121	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Brkan, I appreciate your desire and will to defend against Mr Tomislav Ćorić's reputation in front of counterpart Anko Mrak Taritas, however, a colleague of Mrak Taritas may wonder why there is no clear policy in terms of which sources of energy we support, and neither did Mr Ćorić himself, since you say it is clear to everyone, and he keeps saying that we support exclusively renewable energy sources, wind, solar, you said thermo springs and hydrogen. However, in the tenth month of 2021, Croatia signed an initiative for a stronger turn of the EU's nuclear energy, signed by Tomislav Coric. Since the EU has adopted a taxonomy saying that gas, not only is nuclear energy but also gas green technology, we ask myself and counterpart Mrak-Taritash whether tomorrow Mr. Coric will sign that both gas, gas sources or gas sources are acceptable and in fact a strategic way of thinking energy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91122	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91123	Thank you. I don't know about gas and I don't know what Minister Coric would say when you ask him if gas is a renewable energy source, he certainly isn't. What makes us, I'm going back to what we have, we're going to be doing renewable greens in the future, we're going to call that energy sources, but right now we have both hydrothermia and 50% of the Krško nuclear power plant that we have to protect and take care of in the right way as owners of it. Now, why did the minister sign it? Logically, we own the same property as Slovenia 50% of it. Now, will Slovenia go any further, if Slovenia will work third reactor, that's Slovenia's thing. Ha, I don't know, we in Croatia certainly won't because, in Croatia, we certainly won't because we've set ourselves up for green renewable energy sources, but if the Slovenians call us, I speak personally, why don't they join us if they invite us to work with them the third reactor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91124	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91125	Your Honor, I'm not going to ask you complicated questions to make it easier for you and me, but please give me an explicit answer to the question of who the producers are or who will deposit radioactive waste low and medium-level into this center that is the branch of the fund we've been talking about all day, so middle and low waste into the center is deposited by who?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91126	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91127	Thank you. So the radioactive waste disposal centre is an internal unit of the fund, and the fund is called the Krško Nuclear Power Plant's Fund for financing and decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. So in the center which is the foundation unit of the fund will be taken care of radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant plus we have this comedy that we can also take care of our institutional radioactive waste and resources, spent energy sources that we used and now located at the Institute for Medicine, Medical Institute and Ruđer Boskovic, we can put everything in one place and solve everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91128	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91129	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague, I will not ask you what our Minister of Economy Tomislav Ćorić thinks, it will be an opportunity for me to ask him myself what he thinks and what he thinks about the European Commission, it will be best if I ask him, and I should not have a translator from Croatia to Croatian, or a spokeswoman, but I will ask you a very simple question. You referred to that we have in the documents a space that is intended to be taken care of and you made it clear what space it is. So, 1993. were set off by the basic elimination criteria, the estimated space of the Republic of Croatia and eventually the selected 4 locations, experts said there were 4 preferred locations. One location was the Shop Mountain, the other was Moslavaska Gora, the third was Psunj and the fourth was Papuk. I assume that in preparation for this debate you were interested in how now there was only one location left, and these three are no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91130	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91131	Normally I'm prepared and I'll tell you more about it when that point comes, when there's a point about the fund. Normally I am, and I think it was visible and transparent means the whole process of choosing the preferred location since '93, essentially since '88. when an idea task was given and a methodology was established to look for it, until the final selection of the preferred location of the Shop Mountain was a very transparent and very democratic process. And today we are in progress with all other European countries that have this obligation. I'm telling you, Germany hasn't found it yet, and by 2031, it will be out of its obligation to find a place for permanent disposal of high-radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91132	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91133	Thank you very much. Comrade Brkan, here we heard another level of debate and it's always someone's fault even though this has reached this government, and it's already been time for someone to catch up with it a little bit and harder, but it's just plain visible here we're listening to a colleague who was a minister when he reached them any project or problem they would have put everything in a drawer and let time pass and someone who would solve it will come, then they know everything. So this is why you chose this location even though it's a topic that we'll talk about later, even if it's not this one, if there's a power, if there's no power, if there's no why it's gone, so how much it costs, so why is it expensive and every day we have to answer some questions like they just woke up, simply without any policies clear? When actions are taken and when they want to be resolved and certain deadlines are set, the question is whether we will succeed, but I hope we will, and then it will be again you haven't done anything and you don't know anything about them who in opposition know everything, and when they're in power, they put everything in a drawer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91134	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91135	I thank my colleague, Boric, just like you said. So we have a history of disease, but there's no cure, and it always comes to us that we're the ones who have to cut off dead tissue, when I tell me about the HDZ government, and that's how we go with a responsible approach, we pull all the good out of the past that's been done, which was bad, we reject it, but consciously and responsibly we move on to the future. This will also be the centre for the disposal of radioactive waste if all studies show that the preferred location of the Shop Mountain is satisfactory for the construction of such a centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91136	A representative of the Dark-Taritash has done some damage to the Businessmen, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91137	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, it somehow seems to me that in mutual communication it would be polite for you to refer to a representative or a representative, and he is in this assembly to say the name and last name of who he is, not to define him by name and last name when he is not in the assembly. So, if you're not represented or represented in the assembly, then you're talking about the name and last name, and when you don't say it, then you say it's a former minister who puts it in drawers. But I don't know what. [[/Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much. That's...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91138	It was, of course, a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Ljubomir Kolarek. Here you go. ... For example, if you're interested, go ahead. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91139	Mr. Chairman, if you're the minister, I won't contradict you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91140	Comrade Oreshkovic, I will give you a warning, of course, because you did not ask for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91141	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Well, listening to this debate, I've been asked to say a few words. I come from Međimurje County where somewhere like my colleague Maric well knows the early 1980s, one hydro power plant was built, not one, three. In particular, because nature was destroyed, hundreds of acres of forest were cut down, but with the sole goal of producing then the most acceptable energy. This hydrocenter is the Lower Dubrava, or Čakovec, two. And now that we take today's debate we see, on the one hand, we have nuclear energy, on the other hand nuclear waste, and in the middle of the energy that life means to us. It is important to us for the economy and for a better quality of life. There's a lot of talk about renewable energy sources, but we're aware and in this debate we've heard how much technology goes forward that renewable energy sources in five or ten years won't be enough to cover technology and imagine that we have 80% of cars on electricity, or on a battery. How much energy are we running out of? Very, very much. And that is why I believe that the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security is extremely important and important, that we are before the adoption, or the establishment of a place of disposal. And I hope and believe that the local self-government unit will be compensated for building a center like other local self-government units where waste dumps are. Finally, all municipalities of the lower Međimurje receive a hydro rent that is at the level of electricity consumption for public lighting throughout the year. So I think we need to be braver, we need to be wise and smart and understanding. Because when you go into one project, you always have those who are in favor and against. And when that project is good, and I have no doubt that this project will not be good, then everyone will be in and everyone will support it. Personally, I believe that we need to deepen nuclear capacities to ensure the stability of the economy and the stability of the energy source that is green. After all, she's the cheapest. And with a strong approach to renewable energy sources where there's a lot of money, so we can make that step that's important and important to us. And it's a good thing we had this open conversation. I think we're all here on the same page. The only question we have is whether the center will be built by all regulations and regulations, and I have no doubt about it. And that is why I support this final proposal and I believe that we will be wise, smart to make it, make it and be responsible for what we have signed, and we have signed with the Republic of Slovenia an agreement that we will take care of half the waste that is on our souls we would say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91142	We have two replicas. Dear representative Maric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91143	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, as you and I as Međimurci are always proud of our end, I mentioned in a debate on behalf of the club that we are getting the largest solar power plant in the country. It will be in the area of Holy Mary 17.6 ha is size. Do you have any knowledge of whether there will be any other plans in our and neighbouring areas regarding this energy source? Given that HEP plans to increase the level, or production of these renewable energy sources, by up to 50%. Besides, you're the mayor of Prelog City, there's at least how much I've read here, last year was a plan to do new ultrasound research for hydrocarbons. So, finds possibly oil and gas. So here's what you're learning about whether Prelog and the other 10 municipalities will be focused and these energy sources. And as for what you've said, the reluctances are whether we're going to go to more nuclear energy or we're going to go to more renewable sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91144	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91145	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maric, thank you for asking. So it's no secret that there's a geothermal energy source in the city of Prelog, and we were just talking to the secretary of state waiting for a range of competitions for renewable sources, for geothermal energy sources. And I think there's going to be more power generation in our city, and of course, there goes heat energy, which is very important and important. I believe that space-planning will be arranged and everything that is related to the project that you said, and of course there is interest in more projects, smaller projects. Project of renewable energy sources of the sun, It doesn't pay below 10 hectares. [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91146	The next replica is the respected representative Sablar-Dračevac. _Other Organiser Mrs. Crescent. [[I thank the Vice President.]] Hey, buddy, can we have a chat outside? Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91147	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, you said this Law where the establishment of a radioactive waste disposal centre is required would bring us some extra energy. I must admit that I don't understand how we're going to get this benefit, and regarding this controversy that has developed in the assembly about the types of energy that we should exploit in the Republic, we must certainly not forget that the number of sundial hours and the quality of sun power in the Republic, or in Dalmatia is not what it is in Germany to make something like this happen. Pure energy is pure energy, and first we need to use all these resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91148	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91149	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I have to say, the climate has changed a lot, and believe me, you have a lot more sunny days in the north than it was 10, 15 or 20 years ago. As far as this first question is concerned, why did I say it? If, if one of Germany has not yet identified the location or the nuclear waste management centre, and we do and we do, so why shouldn't we, I said that I personally believe that we must go towards nuclear energy, get into further business with R. Slovenia and participate in construction, I don't know, 5 or 6 blocks of nuclear power plant. Why not? Then we also have the capacity to take care of that which we must take over. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91150	Thank you. It is now final on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91151	Dear President, Vice-President of the HS, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Well, here we come to the very end of today's debate about this final bill of amendments and additions to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. Another law that represents the harmonisation of the regulatory, legislative and legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This Radiological and Nuclear Safety Act lays down measures of radiological and nuclear security, nuclear security measures, recording and surveillance of nuclear material and other measures of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in carrying out activities with the sources of ionising radiation of nuclear activity and the activities of the disposal of radioactive waste from exploited sources, all in order to enable adequate protection of individuals, society and the environment from the adverse effects of ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising nuclear activities, the activities of the disposal of radioactive waste from exploited sources and nuclear security of ionising sources and nuclear plants. This Law provides for the establishment of a radioactive waste disposal centre as the establishment unit of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of Krško Nuclear Power Plants and the same regulatory and financing of the disposal of radioactive waste used sources and spent nuclear fuel. In accordance with the third revision of the NE Krško decommissioning programme and the Radioactive Waste Management Programme and spent nuclear fuel from NE Krško, it is foreseeable to open a dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel at the NE Krško site, and this facility should operate for at least 60 years after the nuclear end, after the operation of NE Krško. In the meantime, it is important to note that the spent nuclear fuel from NE Krško continues to be stored at the site of the plant and that the newly established centre will not have the obligation to provide spent nuclear fuel as radioactive waste, which is nevertheless a high level of radioactivity. In the second part of this Law that we are discussing today, it actually refers to nuclear security. This Act provides that the Nuclear Insurance Plan is to be adopted on the basis of the threat document provided for by the project basis, which is to be adopted on the basis of the threat assessment. It is also foreseen that the Nuclear Insurance Plan is a confidential document and that it also contains the Cybersecurity Plan. Since the Law stipulates that the implementation of nuclear insurance refers to all sources of ionising radiation, it is proposed to amend the same thing in the sense that nuclear insurance applies to radioactive sources and nuclear material only. This excludes electrical devices that produce ionising radiation, which also fall into sources of ionising radiation. Unlike nuclear plants, so-called or cybersecurity, gamma-knife, devices with closed radioactive sources used for radiotherapy at the KBC Neurosurgery Clinic Zagreb, was achieved by informative separation of the devices and its control console from the rest of KBC's information network Zagreb. Also, in the case of a panoramic irradiation device, a closed radioactive source of Cobalt-60, this device is neither connected to the internal or external network, or the Internet, which means that there is no possibility of hacker attacks, which means that it should not be subject to cybersecurity measures. The third group of closed radioactive sources to which cybersecurity also does not apply are closed radioactive sources used in industrial radiography when working on drillings where the device management in which the closed source is carried out by a control device without the use of computers or systems and networks. It is important for this law to note that it does not require additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was held at a plenary session in late October 2021. As regards the debate itself, neither representatives' clubs nor individual parliamentary representatives have made comments and proposals on certain legal provisions, and here at the very end, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91152	Thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Before we move to the next point, we'll now take a break for technical reasons, the information service has asked me to take a break, and then this one will see you at 15 and 45. It's 3:37 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.46 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Ivo Milatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91155	... The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of Krško Nuclear Power Plants is the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs before you. [[Specially enabled.]] In accordance with the interstate contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations regarding investments, use and decommissioning of the Krško Republic Nuclear Power Plant, it is required to take care of its half of the low and medium radioactive waste generated during the operation of the plant, but also during its future decommissioning. In order to ensure the resources for those activities in 2003, a decommissioning programme was developed for Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel adopted in 2004. The programme clearly sets out how to decommission the plant and the amount of radioactive waste to be taken care of, and the interstate contract also provides for periodic audits of the programme. The programme also defines the cost of decommissioning and care that is in the obligation of owners. GEN companies from the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Croatia. According to this 2006 government regulation, HEP is set out to pay the funds for these purposes each year. Since then, HEP has been making regular payments on funds intended for implementation of the programme. As a result, a Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of Krško Nuclear Power Plant was established in 2007, and its structure was regulated by this law also adopted in 2007. The programme for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel has been revised in accordance with the interstate contract and a new version of the programme was adopted in February 2020 in this esteemed home. We made a commitment to take over and take care of our half of the low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It is also necessary to start handling radioactive waste and used sources of ionising radiation generated in the space of the Republic of Croatia. This radioactive waste and used resources are currently located in two locations in Zagreb at the internal storage facilities of the Ruđer Bošković Institute and the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work sealed. In addition, used sources are stored at numerous locations of users, and the best example are hospitals throughout the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to establish a radioactive waste disposal centre that will take over the fulfilment of that obligation. In view of the above, and since the adoption of the Fund Act, since the adoption of the Fund Act, a significant period of time has passed the provisions of the Fund Act have not been in conformity with the legal, sublegal and implementing regulations in the area of radiological and nuclear security which have been adopted or amended in the meantime, it has a direct impact on the activities, powers and areas of the Fund. This proposal therefore intends to settle several issues. The first of these is the scope of the fund's liability and the operations of the fund, which also includes the establishment of a radioactive waste management centre. The law also regulates the scope of the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia for the work of the Fund as well as which the state body is exercising its founding rights in relation to the fund and which body the Fund is responsible for its work. The final draft of the law is proposed in parallel with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, which was recently discussed, which is particularly important, because it proposes compliance with the provisions of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act relating to the establishment of a radioactive waste disposal centre and the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act is subject to the obligation to adopt regulations governing the compensation of radioactive waste used sources and compensation to the local community. The law also complies with the decision on the adoption of the National Programme for the implementation of the strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used sources and spent nuclear fuel. Therefore, as already pointed out in this esteemed home, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel The Krško Nuclear Power Plants will deal with all issues related to the structure and functioning of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste, which is an important investment project, which fulfils obligations undertaken by an interstate contract, and it is necessary to define all participants, their obligations and rights as well as responsibilities and a part-time, part-time business. Finally, the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia and the legislation clearly and assumes European legislation related to what is also confirmed by the adoption of the strategy and the national implementation programme. Among the 2 readings there were no significant changes other than petty nomotechnical corrections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91156	Thank you, we have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91157	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr Milatić, here I will be brief to see here so the fund performs the tasks of collecting, preserving and increasing the value of funds etc., etc., Article 3 states that jobs will be carried out here in relation to the disposal of radioactive waste etc., etc., and radioactive waste that did not occur in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Is there a plan since I assume that a possible landfill will be in some more serious proportions to monetaryise these investments in some way and to offer services to accommodate such a type of radioactive waste and some other countries and, of course, to achieve a certain financial benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91158	Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91159	Thank you, this clearly needed legislation to foresee such an opportunity in case it would be such an interest because this location where, the potential location at which our center should be built is one ideal location for it. It has 54 hectares of this former military non-perspective facility so that clearly, in the first stage, only what the Republic of Croatia needs would be built, but if in time these other countries were to show some interest and if it were to conclude that our interest would then be clearly approached by the conclusion of an interstate contract that should come into this esteemed home and only afterwards could this type of activity be accessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91160	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91161	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, when we discussed the first proposal of this, the amendment and addition of this law three months ago, I asked the question at which stage is the public procurement process for the development of an environmental impact study on the construction of the centre. That's when you said it was in the final phase, or in the appeal course, that the appeal was actually under way. I am interested now in what stage of this public procurement is today, is the artist chosen, or is the designer of this environmental impact study, and who has been selected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91162	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91163	How much, thank you for asking, as far as I know, this is literally at the last stage since it was the Administrative Court, so it wasn't just DCOM someone was both DCOM and the Administrative Court. I think it's a matter of weeks now that it'll probably all be over in this month and we'll make it clear that we're going to do what the court says and this one we're told we're going to get that disposition very quickly and as soon as we get it, we're going to clearly agree on how the court has determined it. We have these 2 let's say the complainants are both competent enough and qualified for it, and here's the appeal procedure to be completed and whoever's clear he's going to be chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91164	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91165	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm curious to know how much money has been spent so far for the center of Cherkez's plan and how much more will be spent? According to data that I came up with to analyze the zero radiological status of 3.87 million kuna relations with the public 3 million kuna, the development of an earthquake risk study 1.8 million kuna is likely to have other project documentation, radiological monitoring is likely to take place. How much more money will be spent until it works, and it's planned when 2024 is sort of the data. Or when? [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91166	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91167	Yes, this one I assume you downloaded all of this from our website where you are data, because on the fund's website, everything that has been spent so far has been published and a work plan for this year. You can literally read it there so that I wouldn't say something wrong here right now. And a clear and regular report on the work and spending of funds is adopted each year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So these are public documents that you can get through the Government of the Republic of Croatia or through the Fund. So if you want, I'll tell my colleagues at the fund that you've been completely spent so far and they'll deliver what's planned to be spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91168	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91169	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my inquiry will be on the trail of this previous or earlier two replicas. When you were preparing this law, then there, in the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement, it clearly states that no activity of the centre was expected before 2023, so it was not necessary to provide specific funds in the budget because only then would it be, so before 2023 they are not any activity. What I'm curious about is I'm assuming that some kind of hodogram has been made in the ministry because we know that, after the environmental impact assessment, there goes the location permit with all those possible complaints, that's what the building permit goes behind, so these are all the preconditions to move on. What kind of hodogram does the ministry predict when it is realistic to expect something concrete to happen there, or something concrete to be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91170	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91171	Thank you for asking. As for the insurance of funds from the state budget, it will be until further notice that we do not need funding from the state budget, the Fund weighs 2 billion and 680 million kuna, these are the funds created by the Fund based on billions and 900 million kunas paid by HEP, the rest is earned by the Fund in these years of existence. So this is about the funds, so the funds are there, and as far as the hodogram is concerned, clearly, the hodogram is, now doing all these studies, there's been a big study done by the Institute Ivo Pilar and you can see on the Ministry's website, the Fund that's very interesting and speaking and all that's important for that. They were doing these radiological, earthquakes, and now this environmental impact study is going to be doing, and it is clear that it is expected that these next two years will be about documentation and about building permits. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91172	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91173	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, let me ask you a question. We hear a lot of debates, one going in the direction that there are opposition clubs and MPs who call for exit from NE Krško and our shares because that kind of energy is probably not needed even though it's cheap because we have this byproduct that we're talking about now and the storage problems, and then the other question is to show us, you're also dealing with the building, probably one part of the executive government, which is supposed to be done to make our citizens get some kind of picture of what we need to do, because sometimes, when we say center, thinks it looks like I don't know, something we never saw, which nobody has ever seen. Just so we know what we need, what we need it for, and why we finally play with the right cards, we don't play it wrong anymore, and something needs to happen in the next two or three years, to finally solve it more and put that question aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91174	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91175	Thank you. So it's mid-low and medium radioactive waste, it's actually about angles, electronic instruments, and everything that serves in, in the maintenance of the power plant, that's what would ultimately, if we took over now in '24. Or '5. When we have to take over the first tranche, when it's sent to conditioning at the specialized factories that do it, by, I guess it's going to be France, uh, we're going to bring it all together to that dump, so for everything that the power plant's been doing, somewhere around 23 cc's of material. 23 cc's of material, so clearly this would be in cubes of 1.7 x 1.7 x 1.7, and that would agree, so you get the impression of how much it is. It's not some terribly large material, but it just has to be done the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91176	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91177	Thank you. I thank the Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, and here's my question to track down everything we've heard so far. I spend all day trying to find out what stage we are in because it seems to me that the decision has been made that it will be at that site and that it will be a warehouse and I am therefore interested, you said that in two years you will extract the documentation, and Croatia must have a solution for the storage of low and medium radioactive waste NE Krško. You gave me the answer that this material is going to be driven to France, now it's 1,000 too, I've got it written somewhere, 30 meters cubic and you're saying it's going to turn into how many meters of cubic when it's compressed, I am, how many meters. And what will be the cost of being taken to France? [[Intruder: Yes, that's how I got the information from people who deal with it.]] Here, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91178	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91179	First. Thank you. First of all, I'm just saying that it's going to have to be conditioned in another country, it's just two countries that are close to us, and that's Slovakia and France. It's Slovak, it's been talking to them for years, but it just doesn't seem like it's gonna be possible. France definitely has the capacity, resources and everything else and the idea is next, so that by the time we have to take it and take it to processing and conditioning and then stay there for a year, a year and a half, and then there would be enough time to build a dump in Croatia, and clearly that a dump in Croatia would be made, all procedures should be passed, meaning environmental, space-planned, all procedures in accordance with the international atomic agency in terms of relations with neighbours and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91180	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91181	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, today at the previous point, we had several references to the topic where, what Croatia wants with its energy, what we want to rely on. As far as I know, the Republic of Croatia has opted for clean, renewable energy sources, solar plants, wind power plants, geothermal sources and is currently investing in them. Have you ever thought about it in the Ministry, for example? about building a nuclear power plant in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91182	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91183	Thank you. It is true that we have opted for all of this in terms of renewable sources, and it is true that we are one of the countries that signed in asking the EU Commission to include in the taxonomy energy that has no CO2 footprints and atomic energy. So we joined this one, and it is true that we are not thinking in the area of the Republic of Croatia about any construction of any nuclear power plant, but we are thinking, in case our partners in Slovenia who have been successfully with us for years have decided to do so, and they have already set out to follow certain documents for the new 1000 MW. It would be at least irresponsible of us if we didn't want to join it if the conditions came down because that was the extra x terawatt of electricity that would be by A predetermined price and no CO2. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91184	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Jura Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91185	I would like to thank the chairman, the esteemed secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we now have a final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel nuclear power plant Krško. We've already discussed this a lot at the previous point, and now we're on to things. Also, at the first reading we discussed in October last year, we discussed the most about the location, construction and mode of work of the future centre for the disposal of radioactive waste. There were then numerous comments on the process of determining the preferred location in the Shop Gora, insufficient communication with residents of the municipality of Dvor, and you also heard different proposals, proposals for other solutions for low and medium radioactive waste management. It is clear to all of us that this is an extremely important and sensitive topic of the team that we have already undertaken as a serious state, and as a serious state, we now have to fulfill them. For this reason, I am pleased that in the second reading of this final bill, the Proposer provided answers to the questions raised in the first reading. So we learned that the selection process for the disposal site of radioactive waste started in 1988 when the Croatian and Slovenian governments established inter-republic coordination between Croatia and Slovenia for all issues of the work of the Krško nuclear power plant, including the area of radioactive waste and for the management of the joint project building a waste disposal site. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in 1988 tasked the Croatian Energy Organisations community that today is HEP to organise a study that will contain space-planner bases, research results and a similarity assessment of locations for the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia. After the selected and approved methodology and selection criteria, the location selection process was carried out in three steps. During 1993 seven potential areas of Petrova gora, Trgovska gora, Moslavačka gora, Bilogora, Papuk, Krndija, Psunj and Požeška gora were proposed. This total area was 100 to 600 km square. In the next step, a multiple evaluation of potential areas was carried out using benchmarks and 34 potential locations were selected. The area has been reduced to two to twenty kilometers square. In the third step, the comparative evaluation of potential locations proposed four preferred locations, Trgovina gora, Moslavačka gora, Psunj and Papuk. During the debate at the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia's House of Representatives in 1997, the 13 amendments were deleted from the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. During the debate at the Croatian Parliament in 1999, the preferred location of Moslavačka gora was deleted and accepted by the House of Representatives. After this, a transparent and democratic process was chosen as a preferred location for the Shop Mountain. For the purpose of the storage of radioactive waste, the location of Cerkevac is considered as a non-spective logistics complex of the Croatian Army located 10 to 15 km south-east micro location of Majdan in the Shop Gora. On 31 March 2020, the Fund shall take over real estate management owned by the Republic of Croatia. I should also mention that even during the selection process, experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency participated, who positively assessed the methodological approach, the more benchmarking and the results of the location selection process during the three expert missions. As for communication with the locals of the municipality of Dvor which is very important and inevitable. In the final proposal, the government informed us that there has been communication with the local community since 2015. This communication has continued to date and is currently under way to establish an information centre in the Castle as a central place for informing the local population about the project and related topics, and that for the purpose of developing the municipality of Dvor and increasing the quality of life, a study of the current state with suggestions for improvement has been developed. Personally last week, driving from Makarska to Zagreb on Radio Banovina, I listened to a show about what stage the current research for the location for the radioactive waste management centre is in. In fact, he was saying that there's currently a radiological zero, as I understand it. It means that it determines the current state of radioactive radiation at that location. From the first reading to today, we have faced a global collection of all energy sources, so it is necessary to mention what benefit the Republic of Croatia has from the Krško nuclear power plant. Since the start of its commercial work on 1 January 1983, Krško nuclear power plant annually covers about 20% of Slovenia's needs and 16% of Croatia's electricity needs. Energy obtained by the work of Krško nuclear power plant is reliable, predictable, its prices are favourable to reducing energy dependence on imports. It should also be mentioned that nuclear energy is at least low carbon energy without emissions. In every production process, as well as in Krško nuclear power plant, there is technological waste, industrial and also low and medium-active waste. Annuals in Krško nuclear power plant are formed about 30 m of cubic low and medium radio active waste. Radioactive wastes are waste materials, depleted equipment in a radio-controlled area that we cannot decontamination after use, i.e. using them to become radio-active. For example, we use protective suits, processed liquid waste, filters, resins. In accordance with international standards, all low and medium-sized radio active waste that has been created since the start of the Krško nuclear power plant since 1981 has been stored in a temporary warehouse in the power plant. The total volume of radioactive waste currently stands at 2405 metres cubic. It would be a pile of 20 meters long, 20 meters wide and 8 meters high, 6 meters high, excuse me. And half of that pile is ours, Croatian. It can also be reduced by sorting, concentrating, melting and burning. Burning and melting service... abroad, and burning up to 20 times reduces the volume of waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste shall be designed in accordance with the requirements for designing facilities for the storage of radioactive waste, established and internationally verified, and subsequently united in the guidelines of the International Atomic Energy Agency. For insulation of radioactive waste in human and environmental storage, a system of multiple barriers is used where each of the barriers plays a special role. For the purpose of long-term storage of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, a storage facility is foreseen at the location of the centre, which is the construction of a new building. It will be a simple and one spacious reinforced concrete building with steering and auxiliary spaces built according to the most modern standards with radioactive waste from the Krško nuclear power plant, which will be stored in the centre, will first be transported to some of the processing centres, and radio active waste in Europe where it will be processed and conditioned into reinforced concrete tanks with two meters. Such a final package of waste will contain neither liquid nor gas waste, and there is no danger of any release into the environment. It should also be noted that the centre will also provide institutional radio-active waste and used resources resulting from the use of radio-active materials, i.e. sources of ionising radiation in medicine, industry, science, military. Radioactive waste and used resources are currently stored in the rehabilitated and closed internal warehouses as part of the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine at the Ruđer Bošković Institute here in Zagreb. It should be noted that institutional radioactive wastes used by ionising radiation will continue to occur, and that the national programme provides for a total of up to 100 metres of cubic waste to be generated by 2060. The adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund Act will comply with the provisions of the Fund Act with the provisions of the Radiological Nuclear Security Act, whose amendments are in parallel, and the said law will assume the obligation to adopt regulations establishing financial obligations relating to the disposal of radioactive waste and used nuclear fuel. The law will also comply with the strategy and national programme as well as other applicable regulations. It's final. Management of radioactive waste from used sources, spent nuclear fuel from strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia is also confirmed by the adoption of a strategy and national implementation programme. I can only point out, so as we heard in the debate in the previous point, the nuclear fuel used will not be stored at the radioactive waste disposal centre but will be stored in Slovenia. However, the fund will also pay for the disposal of this waste in Slovenia. Following that above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91186	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDSS and will be spoken by the respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91187	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The Representatives' Club and Representative of the Independent Democratic Serb Party welcomes the inclusion of the European Commission's directive or the European Union when it comes to amending this law. But there are also a number of questions about this bill. We heard about the choice, colleague Brkan talked about the locations that were proposed and how and how they were eliminated and how the whole thing ended up on the Shop Mountain, or Zrinska Gora. The argument on this may, of course, be accepted, but may also be disputed because there are a number of additional issues related to this location. What I would like on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party is that in the time behind us until the debate on the final proposal of the law, we had a better situation with regard to the picture of the attitude of citizens from the Sisak-Moslavina County area, and in particular the Municipality of Dvor according to this project and according to this programme and according to the legal solution and because of the choice of the location itself. There is no doubt that the initial violent reactions are now quieter, but it is far from being citizens ready to talk seriously about it, because there has been no serious debate. Radio, television shows and contributions that go on about it cannot compensate for what is essential for the conversation. Substantially speaking are the following things. You will find it difficult in the European Union or in Europe to go, to choose a place to store radio active waste even if it is low and medium level radio activity in a location less than 30 km from the neighbouring country. Hardly. And I've been pushing for this communication to be more successful on many occasions and over the years. That part of it is not well enough communication, nor is it close to any possible degree of consent. Of course, the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can't stop, but it can make it harder, and that's not our best interest. And I don't know about that. There were serious conversations. If they did, I'd like to know. It is not that there is no possibility of serious conversations when the matter has already been brought here, but I do not know if there are, whether serious conversations have been conducted in a serious sense. The third thing is the regulator, so we shut down the agency, we formed three years ago an unfulfilled state institution that became an integral part of civil protection. Is that the best? I'd like to hear the arguments that go along with it. So, I said the improvements in the law are fine, but these are questions where my club, the club where I belong, have thoughts when it comes to passing the law. Why? Because the ideal functioning of regulators still leaves the question of fears, and I'm not sure we have the ideal condition when it comes to it. The fourth thing is monitoring independent. So, counterpart Brkan here stated what could be heard at a local radio station, which is the level of radiation at the Cherkevac site and the surrounding area, but it would be good to have independent sources that measure it. It's done in every country, it increases credibility and persuasion. Not on the day that we make a decision but significantly before we make a decision, not because people don't trust official data but because, as you know, when we have a more serious health problem, we go for a different opinion, not because we don't trust a doctor, but because there are border situations. And here we really need to have some kind of monitoring. We're coming up with one more thing. We'll have if we carry on like this, we'll have a dump of radioactive waste in the Shop Mountain, and we won't have a municipality. I speak a little harshly, but I don't speak far from the truth because I was in the Dvor municipality 10 days ago and I saw what it looked like. The restaurant is gone, the cafe is one, the health service is an emergency service, and it is the people that functions vitally hanging at the end of no spiders, but the end of the minimum support they receive from different sources. What did we do? Well, we didn't in any way stimulate them further. That farmers don't fear as much as they still do. That this area rich in water will be deprived of fear of any contamination. That this forest-rich area is also deprived of any kind of fear. What am I saying? I mean, if we don't already have a law on what a fund that belongs to one of the funds in the Republic of Croatia, which, where there are billions of funds. What will make this situation on the one hand closer to the construction or opening of the dump site, and on the other hand the disappearance of the municipality of Dvor and its surrounding settlements to change it. So, these are about the Club of Representatives of the SDSS issues of which the smaller part is related to the draft law and issues of the regulators and questions of the fund's powers, and the rest are questions, questions from the Ministry and questions of the fund in relation to those to which it is to be discussed in order to get circumstances for the real assumptions of reducing resistance and from, of, giving answers to questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91188	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91189	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with associates, associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have already said several times already to myself boringly, I think it would have been incomparably better if they had been united debates but I'm really not going to say another word about it anymore. I feel like I'm talking straight all the time. To speak very, I don't speak in gloves, to clearly articulate both attitudes, and I'm very fond of articulating and some professional attitudes, but obviously everyone hears what they want to hear. Let me just say it in two sentences. In the debate that discussed the law that preceded this one, I spoke on several occasions about nuclear energy and the way nuclear energy was used, and I made it clear that things that were unimaginable two, three or four years ago that anyone mentioned the possibility of using and further use of nuclear energy were changed today. Therefore, the European Commission has said that it has or has classified natural gas and nuclear energy under certain conditions in environmentally acceptable sources and has continued to say what opens the way for major private investment in such projects. She made it clear and said it unequivocally. And from this pay phone like that, I gave the rulings to say, now it's time to discuss it, now it's time to see it, and now it's time to make some decisions for the Republic of Croatia by 2030 to 2050. I didn't tell the naked body I advocated nuclear energy, I didn't say no, but I said let's put the arguments in, see where we are and make smart decisions. Of course, ruling when they listen only to and listen to opposition that is always against and should always be against, is not so. We just want to make the decision reasonable because we have what we want, we want Croatia to have a step forward. So now we're in a situation where we see what happens to energy. The things that I repeat once before are unimaginable are now different and instead of being discussed and through some strategic plan of development and a plan of resistance and recovery to see where we are, to see what we want, to see which way we want to go, to even be a consensus in this sense, if at all in this assembly there is a consensus, then it is a good thing to read what we wanted to read, and therefore I had a need to translate again through a few sentences from Croatia to Croatian what I was saying in the name of the club and in an individual debate where it only concluded that this law was a topic of much broader debate than what this law is and what this law does. So let's say some clear things. Are we producing nuclear waste in Croatia? We're producing. Do we have a nuclear obligation, Krško? We do. Can we all agree on that? We can. What are we supposed to do behind that? We can't eat that junk, we can't ignore it, we can't keep a close eye on it like a child, so if you close your eyes, it's gone, it's gone. And we have to do something with him. He only had two ways. We don't have 122 ways, we have 2 ways. One way is to say they'll be taken care of by someone else, we'll take care of it somewhere else, and we'll pay to have someone take care of us somewhere else. Another way to take care of that waste ourselves. There's no 3, 23, 63, or I don't know any way. And these are political decisions, so don't mix the doctor's profession with the profession, don't. It is a political decision for Croatia to say no, I have the shape of a muffin I have such a very sensitive form, very all together, I have the decapitated municipalities, I have different interests, we will not have a center in our space that will do it, we will be ready every year to give some money until someone is ready for Croatia to deal with it. And it's a political decision and a decision that's okay. If we say no, we will still build such a center in the area of the Republic of Croatia because we need this center because we need to do it, because it needs to be done right together, then it's another pair of sleeves and let's see where we are and what we're going to do next. No spatial plan is carved in stone, carved in stone, and no mother has that anymore. Each, all decisions, all decisions made are ready and can be made and made through different changes and can be different changes and can change over time. So I'm an extremely good follow-up to all processes that are related to environmental impact assessments. The first environmental impact assessments at European and Croatian level are there in '87, '88. The years have come and been. I'm a colleague and a colleague in '92. The year, '93. started working at a ministry with four colleagues, a letter and four were about colleagues dealing with evaluations, dealing with environmental problems in the '90s, end of '92. The beginning of '93. Four. Today, I don't know how big the ministry is, what the changes were and what was, and we need to be aware of that. I'm running out of time, and then I'll try to finish. I remember a lot of times when I was in college when I first had a college Space Planning, the first sentence that the professor said, he said spatial planning was closely related to politics. And then, of course, I was a very naive student and I thought what he was saying. So how did we get to this location? They did, the waist said four equally valuable locations that still need to be examined, four. I repeat, and I'll read them. So these four were the Trade Mountains, Moslavacka Gora, Psuaj and Papuk. How is there only one policy amendment left in this House? There were two amendments in '97. and 1 amendment '99. And then there's only one location left behind. I think we'd be much better off today from this point of view if we had four locations left, so if they were valued, worked, studied strategically, it would be easier for you, so everything would be easier together. But it wasn't the waist that decided on that location, the comparative stuff, it had the advantage. The policy that had power back then is the amendments to this House, in this hall that looked a little different than it looks today, has made that decision. Now it's just that one single location. Let's go openly and publicly, transparently with all the arguments to look at that location. Come on, let's have a public debate that's a lot wider. Let's have a public debate between different experts, let's see.../incomprehensible/... so every time you do that cost benefit analysis, let's see what that cost benefit analysis brings us. The worst is when you have too little data and the worst is when at the end of everything the waist has decided and said, it should be done and that involved politics. Politics makes decisions that make them certain votes, based on what they are, and we are now where we are. And what I didn't accidentally do, I deliberately asked the secretary of state because until it's in a certain way a political consensus, that this location goes on, there won't be any need to even secure the funds because it won't go on. Whether it's that location or not, I don't really dare say. I wish there were four other locations, then those from different aspects were seen. My colleagues and colleagues, the way we treat space today, the way we do environmental impact assessments today, the way we do today, and the strategic thinking of environmental impact assessment differs greatly from what was done in '93, '95, '97, '99. With absolutely and differently estimated and done, but what is minimum, to make a political decision, whether we have a centre at all, to make a political decision as far as possible, and then to let the profession decide and to be transparent, to be public, to be subject to criticism, to see all the arguments that are in favour and against because otherwise we will not still have a centre, but the decision is political whether or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91190	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, according to a respected representative, Renata Sablar-Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91191	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we're discussing this today in two separate points, and too much has been combined, too much of what we should have told each other before. So I've been researching some answers all day, trying to get to them, to now hear from the secretary of state that means the 1130 cubic meters that we have at the moment at NE Krško we're going to take to France and convert to some, maximum, 30 cubic meters. And not only that, we have a situation that Croatia must have a solution to store low and medium radioactive waste from NE Krško by 2023 and we can no longer reach time. I've been wondering what stage we're in all day. So the conclusion is that we have a location before, in October 10, we didn't speak so openly that it's definitely that and that locality, but we kind of became more fluid, maybe not necessarily. All those others that the waist suggested fell off and we only have one left. Definitely that center can't, and we decided to build the center, the money fund has, there's no problem, but that center can't be finished until 2023. From the Secretary of State's reply, I realized that this period, because we're going to be chasing papers until the end of 2023 without having started construction, that period we're going to practically take our nuclear waste to France, turn it into smaller cubes, and only when we have a center, will we bring it back. Now I'm kind of getting a time-hodogram clearer and we can talk about the problem further. The first problem I would talk about is the location we chose. So it's a location near our neighbors. How can we have good neighbourly relations when their population is far greater than our population in the Court of the Union? And we're building that center too close, 1 km really isn't enough. Surely it must be kept in this, in mind, and that it is a blasty area in which we can also have stronger earthquakes and it certainly needs to be kept in mind. I'd like to address this problem now, so 19.2.2009 was founded the Radiological and Nuclear Security Sector. I'm not sure how good it is that we don't have an independent body, one body like the Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security, directly under the authority of the government. The MUP is one of the hands of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we really need an independent body. I can also link it to the construction of this center. So, when we go when we get all the local permits, everything we need from the documentation, and when we go into construction, who will control the construction, whether only the government will rediscover who without any independent bodies that we will be able to see if everything is done in accordance with the projects and if everything is well done. This is one serious thing, if we're building a center, we're building it right, and that surveillance needs to be done. Then, in principle, we repeat something that is more or less clear to everyone, the location is decided, the licenses are requested but again we are late and we are coughing in everything. Some things are unsaid, there's not enough honesty, and if there's not enough honesty there's absolutely no consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91192	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91193	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with his associates, where to begin. So we're going back constantly in all the debates of so far's representatives' clubs on those foundations or the basics. And the basis I would say is to communicate with the local population, select the location and satisfy constitutional and legal provisions of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about spatial planning. As the proposal was manifested not on the proposals and remarks, since it found that there were no proposals or objections, I do not know how in that first reading, but it was given opinions, and it was manifested to these opinions, and here most of the evidence takes an indication of me personally or myself on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, where the special space attaches the proposer to the obvious by my suggestions, or by my criticism of communication with the local population, and that explains how the communication of long ago began, that is to say, in '88. For years even when selecting the location, it is said that during 2020, 2021 because of the nature of the crisis, it was not possible to communicate with the local population, but there they did it through the media, radio, television, printed editions, Internet portals. So here's what we heard about someone listening to on the radio about the great benefit of building a nuclear waste disposal center right here in this location that we're talking about. There is also talk of continuous communication with locals in field research related to the determination of the natural rate of radioactivity. So here I am wondering how this communicates with the local population, and who exactly communicates in field research? And as for this communication through the media, on the radio, on TV, on Facebook publications, because recently reportedly there are Facebook publications about this topic and organized, I remind all those present here, and the Croatian public that these forms of one-sided communication are very often paid forms of communication, paid for by the state budget, which, of course, contribute to the very one who has imagined the project or the realization of any activity as he wills, and not as some consensus with the other side, or the population that the project receives in his arms. So to cut short everything I wanted to say, don't talk to me about communicating with the population because yesterday I heard from the mayor of the municipality of Dvor and asked him if anything had changed about communicating with the population, whether the position of the municipality of the Court and the local population on the installation of such a project in the spatial and local and regional or not, and Mr. Chief told me there was no change. Likewise, when we talk about the media, we had the opportunity to look at the media about a month ago, I think it's the exact date of 7.1., where the microphone is directly placed in front of the residents, and they are wondering if they know about the realisation of this project, at which stage the state will act on their community after the implementation of the project, and in turn they all said that they do not have any official information. I suppose, of course, by referring to their right, the constitutional right to plan their own space or use of their own space. counterpart Mrak Taritas said before that choosing the location between the four alternative locations was a political decision. That's right. Political decision. Not based on an expert analysis, not based on professionally developed documentation, not on the objective criteria listed here. The criteria have been set out, and then all of this signing on the location selection criteria is deleted in a way that the amendments are said to be decided in the assembly to be exactly that location and then spent millions, then all legislative regulations are placed there, of course, where they can be set up, and we speak here in the Croatian Assembly because most of them are compact in a way that they don't actually need these professional analyses, and they don't need to study environmental impacts because the location has been chosen. The location is my chosen people. So, we are conducting a procurement for an environmental impact study that should be a previous document that will say whether or not this project can be realised in that location, but before that we are talking exclusively about this location and in all legal solutions and discussions we are talking exclusively about that location. And nuclear waste, of course, we have to take care of it. It's our responsibility. And I am now wondering, if neither the performer or the environmental impact studyer has been chosen, followed by a study, a discussion on study, adoption, of course, because you will name the committee that adopts that study precisely those people who will raise their hand, read the study or not. I speak from experience. Then the arrival of the permit, then the building permits, and the publication of the tender for the execution of works, for the construction of the center, and the construction of the center, and all of you will do so within 3 years. Very ambitious. And you know why you put it so ambitiously? Because the environmental impact study, the issue of documents will go like this. And you know how it's gonna go? By not asking what it says in the local or regional spatial plan, but rather by some up-to-date, up-to-date assistant minister at the Ministry of Construction will sign a false statement that it is just as Article 80 paragraph 2. The environmental law, that the request of the holder of the procedure or the request of the holder of the construction procedure of that centre must contain a certificate of compliance with the spatial plan. It will be signed by the secretary of state, everything is in line with everything, we go on and who cares what the local population thinks, who cares what it says in the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of the local population, what is a notorical fact is that in 2011, the municipality of Dvor had 5,570 inhabitants, according to the list in 2021, has 3,044 inhabitants. So, colleagues and colleagues in the Dvor municipality today have 46% less residents than it was 10 years ago. By building such an object that inevitably affects the quality of life of people in the municipality of Dvor that I do not talk about surrounding municipalities and cross-border influences will result in an additional outflow of the population or simply natural drains, no one will want to live there anymore, especially because no one asks them how they are said about health. It would be expected in civilised countries that one municipality that has 12 million kunas of its income, which is an assisted area and this area, or units of local self-government, which is 548 per development, by the index development that such unit of local self-government in which such a building is located has an entire budget available only from such a facility. And I therefore expect from you who have not even mentioned my proposal that the laws of such units of local self-government as Omisalj, but there is no such happiness of the municipality of Dvor that it is strategically well-placed so at least from tourism and other activities we can live on, that it is legally arranged for that municipality to receive a truly fair fee, a long-term compensation that no Government of the Republic of Croatia in the future or the present cannot make that decision that will be amended by the compensation regulation. As she wishes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91194	The next club of MPs will be that green-left block, and the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91195	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, we have already stated in our first reading some of our views regarding Croatia's future in the field of nuclear energy as a green left party, of course we believe that we should turn to other alternative sources, renewable energy sources, that Croatia has not exploited and would say almost nothing of its potential in renewables, and here I include hydropotentials that are still unused. Last time in this debate, we pointed out one very important thing that is not only a matter of the value of political, political orientation but rather a question of the financial viability of such an investment, which is what I asked here, and actually a colleague from the ministry agreed, which is the fact that when you combine all the costs of building a nuclear plant with the cost of decommissioning that you actually price megawatts especially for 10 or 15 years when it is planned to build a possible new wing will probably be more expensive than a comparable megawatt from renewables. And he agreed that this was very, very easy and therefore the issue is not only about orientation, the issue of security but also about the financial viability of such investments because I say when we look at investments and investments in nuclear energy then all costs including costs of decommissioning must be taken into account. However, what also concerns us, in the meantime, with the existing state of play and the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste, is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that its legal and institutional system of care is in line with the Exhausted Fuel and Radioactive Waste Directive. We know that this is not and that is why we are doing these changes because the EU Commission sent an official notice in 2020 to the 10th of May. And also, in 2021, we received the so-called so-called a statement of opinion from them. What is the essence of the institutional system of which this Directive requires is the existence and functioning of a competent regulatory authority, i.e. the competent regulatory authority as a professional and independent institution that oversees activities and adopts policies and programmes for authorisation holders defined as legal or natural persons fully responsible for those activities. We discussed this on the board today. What is this professional and independent body? So who's it gonna be? The answer we get is that it's the Home Office. So what we offer as an institution that conducts professional and independent supervision is the Ministry of the Interior. So we in the green-left block for this reason can't support this because we think the Ministry of Interior shouldn't and can't be that body, we had an institution that did it as an independent institution by 2019, but this is certainly not. Therefore, we believe that the Republic of Croatia has been in serious violation of the directive since the abolition of this State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, which was an institution which coincided with the definition of the competent regulatory authority. So what's happening now is that in one institution, the uniting functions of supervision and profession, and that institution we can't possibly say is independent and professional because it's part of the government, the Ministry of the Interior is the Ministry and is headed by the Minister of Internal Affairs, so neither the professional nor the independent body. So I'm going to quote that the directive itself is in art. 6th century 2 says that each Member State shall ensure that the competent regulatory authority is functionally separated from any other body or organisation engaged in the promotion or exploitation of nuclear energy or radioactive material, including the production of electricity or the use of radio-isotopes or the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, in order to ensure independence from any inappropriate influence on its regulatory function. Now, I'm asking all of you, colleagues and colleagues, do you think the Ministry of the Interior is such a body? But there's something else I want to say about this whole venture. Therefore, also an undertaking concerning the storage or disposal of radioactive waste in Croatia, but also an undertaking concerning the extension and possible upgrade of NE Krško. So, first of all, it's about taking care of things. We have an area affected by the earthquake, we have an area that represents the state border, or we have an area that represents the EU border. So not the interstate border of two EU member states, but the EU's state border. And without any critical detour or opportunity to re-examine that location after it hit Bani, they hit devastating earthquakes, after still shaking there, that we understand each other, so it doesn't matter, and after we know all the challenges of the development area, we, that is, this government doesn't give up on that location. I really can't understand that it didn't, at least, give time to examine any changed circumstances and possible other locations because some other locations were in play. But the most important thing, here, is to me, is whether we can truly believe as citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the disposal of this waste and the construction of the supply infrastructure, as well as the intervention in investments new to the nuclear power plant, I will repeat, the nuclear power plant, by this government, will be made in accordance with all safety standards and in a way that will not endanger the safety of citizens because it is, in fact, a government that cannot conduct a tender for coin cartoonists. So we are not able to conduct the tender successfully to draw what the euro coin will look like. We've seen, we can't even manage state property, come on, real estate, but at least apartments without having one affair every week, here's at least the portfolio of apartments. So the simplest processes in this country generate an affair after an affair every week, and we're told that we're going to invest a new wing of the nuke. And if I wasn't a skeptic of nuclear energy, don't be angry, I'd be scared, because if it was going to be done the way it's usually done in the organization of this government, I'm seriously scared and I'd rather go a minimum of 1,000 kilometers in some other direction expecting disaster because I, I didn't get any guarantees or hear any guarantees here that the job of taking care of it and any extension of work is not Krško really going to work on one different model than that model we have 30 years in this country, and that's 10% getting a little piece of work, 10% to get a pal, so a little material here, so a little less material there. I'm not sure that's how it would work with such a serious thing, and for that reason, for that reason, actually any further investment and not just from that, but of course from our political orientation, and indeed not only will we not support it, but there would be fear to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91196	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91197	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here's something I want to say about this topic and our Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste because we'd heard some of them would rather close their eyes and say that there is no nuke Krško and that we don't have any obligations and run away somewhere a thousand and a half miles to make sure, at least I understood it so, and if you give it to the Tomašević Hajdaš team then 100% in guess exactly will be all right, so I understood it. So that's a hard thing to answer and add. So there's nothing wrong, there's no problem, you don't know how to solve it. It's kind of a taste of this debate, but obviously we've been discussing it on committees, so there's no need for me and my colleague to argue about it too much. I can't really say that I know too much about this story. I see it as an ordinary citizen regardless of what we do with politics and what we have a chance to say. I've recently seen one documentary on this particular subject, and I've seen this whole space where something is planned, so I'm comparing it with what we've had here today and hearing. Probably any citizen who's watching this debate can do it. That's why I asked in the replica something that interests me because as soon as something is radioactive, it's getting away from it, and it doesn't take too much to deal with. What does Croatian politics look like in this regard? The government and the government have passed. We heard that the profession wasn't determined, but politicians were walking the field, and they probably went all the way up here and said the amendment was the one. That's how I understood it. I think the basis was, however, something of the profession no matter what they were finally made, and every decision taken in the assembly was a political decision, if it was taken in the assembly and the amendment was settled then the political decision and the profession was probably the basis. So let's get this straight, too, so it doesn't turn out that really politicians told some of their opinions here's what they said without any interrogations, without any tours we've found out it's there. What I also noticed from what my colleague Pupovac said and what those citizens said on that show are dissatisfied because there is obviously not enough good communication between the obviously those who have certain tasks, the local population who has their fears as well as any other problem that we have and by the problem of taking care of only mixed municipal waste at some center, is already a problem, let alone something that is radioactive. No one wants that mixed municipal waste in their backyard either, but there is a commitment and we need to have the strength to make decisions. Unfortunately, the past time has shown that we do not have the strength to make decisions in governments, so I am surprised by those who have sat down and put everything in a drawer that has many solutions today. We heard this wrong, but you didn't hear because we're for this and that other location. No suggestions, no. It's just not right. Now, if I were to ask, let us know, they'll never tell you what the location is because we're dealing with politics. So then the profession is gone because we're politicians. Now, and there's a problem, there's a fund, there's money, 2.5 billion isn't small money, they're investing in bonds, they're investing in stocks, they're increasing their value, and there's no amount of money in these 15, 18 years that amount is massive. Is there a financial means that can solve some fears and resolve some doubts? Well, it probably does. It's up to this government to solve that problem, too. In what way? These are people who are authorized to do this in both the ministry and the fund, and they probably have certain tasks to do so, and we need to get rid of it. But if there's a constant doubt about the location we're going to solve, right, if we're not here as it's said because it's not there and where is it? So do we admit that that's it then so let's go solve it with our citizens in that community that obviously has its own problems in operation as many others in those areas obviously do. It means what was visible from these statements of citizens to understand the problem, but not to understand perhaps the noises in communication or lack of communication, but to have certain needs. What level of problem is the probability of perhaps the value of this facility that will reach probably hundreds of millions of euros in construction, and then only the care that will be worth perhaps more than what the fund itself has today. Those aren't stories I get on a truck, I drive something, I land, and it's there. So a pretty sensitive subject, and maybe it's a good thing we should choose how we talk about it, not anything, you've done it all wrong. And it's no good what happened at the end. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91198	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91199	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, it is good that you mentioned the analogy between municipal waste and the disposal of this waste because no one wants anything in their backyard. However, medical standards ultimately require that we have some alternatives, and ultimately, the EU has recognised nuclear energy as one of the types and possibilities of green energy. We must therefore choose how to meet our energy needs and how to take care of that waste at the end of the line. Therefore, it is not uniform if we want to have certain standards and also medically in research and monitoring and in the methodology of diagnostics then there are certain consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91200	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91201	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't want her to stay in the air, so someone purposely did something. So where would we put a specific location, and they were talking here about four she'd be in some community. So we can't tell in Croatia there's a space that's not in any of the municipalities, so it would already be in a certain municipality. If the waist and then politics kind of paved the way for it to be in this location and certain actions are done to make it there, then it is up to us to find the best way to solve it, and how do those people who live there have a certain level of opportunity that they will use to raise their lives to a higher level, no matter what the problem will be created and it will always be that when you hear that something radioactive waste is already in your head is problematic. Just as problematic in some environments and a collection centre mixed with municipal waste. It's just a problem. But wherever I say put it we'll always be in... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91202	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91203	...now whether we've guessed or not. There's a profession to say no to a politician. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91204	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91205	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MP, as head of Lopar municipality, former head of Lopar municipality, I am sure you are familiar with the procedures necessary, which need to be implemented before any project is implemented in terms of construction. I am also sure that at least some of the projects during your term of office have been developed for which it was necessary to conduct an environmental impact study all based on the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation, so you know how long such procedures take so that we do not talk about changes in the spatial plan and more and lower levels, etc., etc., that we are not talking about public procurement procedures etc. Of course we're bonds of nuclear waste disposal from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Given all that I've stated, do you estimate that we're going to be in operation by 2025 in the waste disposal center without respecting absolutely all the laws of the envisaged procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91206	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91207	Thank you very much. Comrade Ahmetovic, will we be there? Well, I believe me here's whatever we've put on ourselves as a goal of being a government, and no matter what we have, we have a lot of events that reach us from time to time from 2017 to today. Whether it will be true in the day I can't say, we'll probably do everything to make it happen because I see that and said the Secretary of State that one supply is complete. How long will it take to assess how much it'll all be on people who carry responsibility on themselves? He's not just here to come to the assembly and tell us something. They have their day-to-day tasks, they have people who need to work on it, I don't want to doubt people who so far have shown most of the seriousness as a government in this problem to solve something. And to ensure a way and to secure procedures, and I don't believe anyone there will do anything without having any papers. We've never done that, and we don't need that kind of thing. So, What's mine I believe will be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91208	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91209	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, we heard earlier from the opposition that the depopulation of the municipality of Dvor was under way. It's really devastating how many people it means moved out of the Dvor municipality without a radioactive waste disposal center. Now, do you personally allow any theoretical possibility to build this one high-tech centre and compensation that will be paid to the municipality of Dvor if you allow this theoretical possibility to create some new jobs, to create some economic potential for the municipality of Dvor and that eventually someone might even move into that municipality of Dvor if he has a job, and the municipality provides him with other things of the type of kindergarten, health care and everything else based on the funds he receives from the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91210	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91211	Thank you very much. Here's a question that's harder than it is because I just say that I know it wouldn't be true because over the past 10 years, nothing has happened, let's say in this matter of construction except the stories that it's going to be, so the depopulation came and on the ground we can't say that we have a center. Whether it will be an opportunity so all policies go, therefore, and ours should also say that we are entering that space in the next 10 years of green policies, that what may be a lack at some point at some other moment may be an advantage in this particular part of having events of things that can sustain life, build up, upgrade that life and content and allow that life may happen there perhaps better than it has been in the past.../incomprehensible/... I don't know which will be neither rent a year, or how much someone will pay, or how much budget they will receive, or any individual for themselves. Everyone will always judge for themselves as they have for the past 10 years. Is that enough? I think here we go. With all the activities we need to do that [[Thank you very much.]] So we'll see... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91212	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, who is not there, is losing his right to debate, and will then be spoken by respected representative Jure Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91213	The colleagues and colleagues should certainly communicate with the public, they should certainly communicate with the residents where the preferred location for the centre for the treatment of radioactive waste was chosen and we could hear it tonight as if there were no communication. That's what you said, and someone said something there, someone did something, but no communication, no communication. In order not to remain in it, I will now read exactly as the motionary Government of the Republic of Croatia told us what was done in communication with the population of the municipality of Dvor and the neighbouring units of local self-government. So it's listed in the materials that we all got. On 22 April 2015, the proposer was presented with a plan for the storage of radioactive waste in the area of Shopagore, municipal councils, locals, representatives of neighbouring cities and municipalities, representatives of the New Town of BiH. Furthermore, on 26 May 2015, a choir of journalists for the environment Croatian news society organised a roundtable in the centre of the Shop Gora in cooperation with the Fund to provide information to the local and general public. Next, in July 2015, members of the local community were allowed a visit to Krško Nuclear Power Plant and Brinja Radioactive Waste Storage in Slovenia. Let us go further, concerning the strategic environmental impact assessment for the National Programme for Implementation of the Strategy, a draft proposal for a national programme of implementation of the strategy for which public insight and public debate lasted from 17 February to 6 May 2016, a large number of interested citizens of the City of Zagreb, the Municipality of Dvor and numerous representatives from Sisak-Moslavina County, particularly from the town of Petrinja, responded to the public debate held on 23 February. Opinions during the public debate were made by representatives and BiH. Furthermore, during public awareness of the decision in the Court in 2016, a number of comments were received from the competent authorities of the public interested public. All these questions were not answered, but all the answers were published on the website of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security on 16 February 2017. In the '15s. To date, cooperation and involvement of representatives of the municipality of Dvor has been repeatedly offered in the project in question, and the Fund continuously reports to the municipality of Dvor on ongoing activities and projects written through. As my colleague said earlier, the pandemic did not fail, it may have been so much direct communication for the last two years, but it moved on to other channels of information. Radio, TV, so we heard, and social networks and everything else, and we can't say it was all one-sided because it's currently under way to establish an information centre in the Court. So communication is continuous and it is needed, it must be realized. But I'm telling you, the location hasn't been brought in for nothing. It has been wanted since 1988, the profession has been involved in this, as well as democratic decision-making. But what's also mentioned, which is why this location is near the border, as it says, I mean, it's like it's a difficult circumstance. Krško is closer to Zagreb than Ljubljana. Krško is on the border almost and again people live and work around him even though the warehouse is radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and no one, I don't know, maybe people are moving away from Krškoga, but I don't think it should be potentiated as some additional problem right now. On the other hand, the location that Krško is between the two states, Slovenia and Croatia and both of us benefit from this NE Krško, why would Croatia and BiH not benefit from the radioactive waste management centre? Note, BiH must also respect its obligation and it must also store its radioactive waste. Which is why BiH would not, storage and pay the Republic of Croatia for its storage in a preferred centre developed by the Trade Mountain. It's also one of the possibilities that exists. Why not? And I don't think that location is anything bad, however, can be useful both BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Next, what else did we say? We mentioned that it wasn't, that when and when will we be able to complete all the necessary documentation for the construction permit? As my colleague said, we may not all go to the right time, but one thing is important to mention, which we have silenced because somehow we have passed over it, which is that in 2015 a study of the previous assessment of the acceptability of the Cherkezovac location in the Shop Gora for the accommodation of the center was made. So we've already got one piece of paper since 2015, and that's why it started working on other documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91214	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91215	Thank you very much. Here, it's important that the debate still looks for certain moments, and then we'll have some doubts that arise. Here, we heard the meaning of the SDP Club that we don't know how we got to that location, and you're quoting means communication with citizens in the 4th month. In 2015, the paper you just mentioned in 2015, we know who it was then. So we can't say that nothing has happened, but it's not like they've stopped doing something about it, but some continuity to come up with a certain solution that's being imposed on us because there's a commitment, and what's important in communication is to certainly remove those fears that are radioactively simple with citizens, and that's where it needs to be made clear that these people know what they're expecting if the center comes to it. So that's the task of communication, of course, with the profession that goes in that section to do it the best way, to nobody's harm if it doesn't have to be anything, no harm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91216	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91217	And if there was a lack of communication, it's now the tribune that needs to be intensified because I just think that fear is the thing that prevents people from seeing the bigger picture of it all. I kind of lost my fear when I... in Munich he saw Germany store its radioactive waste in Salzgitter meaning all this radioactive waste that we heard about the contents, caps, gloves, filters and others, melting, compressed, it remains dry, without liquids, without any gases, in orange barrels 50 by 50. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And such radioactive waste is deposited in Germany in Salzgitter in the former salt mine and there will be deposited 300 thousand cubic metres of such radioactive waste, and we heard here in the Shop Mountain that we are talking about 35, 50, maximum 100 cubic metres of radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91218	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91219	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You said that since 2015, it has been very intense communication. I specifically referred to that one-sided communication, among other things, the newsletters that the Fund boasts about, which it communicates with citizens. So in one of the newsletters says, apart from the positive effect of the nuclear power plant on the environment, Croatia is very aware of all economic and energy benefits, etc. Positive effects of nuclear power plant on the environment. That's what the Fund says, while nuclear production is, we're talking about CO2 per kilowatt, 3.5 times solar, 13 times the wind power, 29 times the hydropower plant. So you see the way in which the untruths in the newsletter are placed as communication with the residents, so I have no question why you think that both the Chief and the Council and The population says it's not communicating. [[Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91220	Thank you. I, you said that well, the newsletters and that one-sided communication through social networks can lead both in this and that direction. And opposition MPs also use social networks for purely political purposes, where when they make a statement, they can look at it from one side or the other. The truth is, the positive effects of the environmental nuclear power plant, but relative to the thermoelectric power plants, on those burning fossil fuels. I'm sure NOT Krško is clean, but neither do I, TE Uglevik, in Kakanj or I don't know there either. This is certainly a positive environmental effect has no Krško towards thermal power plants. However, it is missing normally, and is not an advantage in the nuclear power plant ahead of the solar, hydro, verelectrica and geothermals, which is why Croatia has defined itself in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91221	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91222	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel NE Krško. This Law also relates to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. I'll do it again, what we heard from the promoter. This proposal intends to regulate the following basic issues. The first to be established by the State body in relation to the Fund, whose body is responsible for its work, the scope of the Fund's responsibilities for its work, the scope of the Fund's guarantee for the work of the Fund, business and public authority of the Fund. In short, amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the financing of construction and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from NE Krško will comply with the provisions of the current Fund law with the new or amended legal and sublegal and implementing regulations directly affecting the activities, powers and obligations of the Fund. It is important to stress that the amendment of the Law will allow for the establishment and management of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste by the Fund. There are not too many secrets and ambiguities here because this legislative proposal is in fact harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In fact, together with R. Slovenia, the signing of an international contract and the adoption of all international conventions, the directive and the like made a commitment to smooth NO Krško and to provide spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste resulting from the work and decommissioning of the plant. Of course, these topics of housing, waste management, and waste care are always sensitive and joyfully collected political points. Not only when it comes to nuclear waste, where it's nuclear waste itself, it sometimes triggers fear in people, but we have fresh examples of waste management and the creation of organic bombs in many of our cities, and that's not too much to talk about. I'm going to tell a story, very short, fresh, when we, in our city communal company, set a location for the branch of the compost, there was a referendum, imagine, a referendum happened, happened, and the referendum passed. When the referendum passed, we changed the location and compost capacity of 7,000 tonnes, built in Prelog, 400 meters from the last houses and nothing smells, but it is very lively, active, and then the mayor of the municipality where the referendum was said that he should now take his locals to see how compostana works because it does no harm to anyone. I would like to point out that in the case of such topics around the location, as already discussed, two things are important. The communication with the population, and I think it has already begun here and, of course, the rent or compensation that the local self-government unit must receive for this centre and I believe that the Republic of Croatia is also setting out its energy future and it is necessary, of course, to implement both two laws in a very clever way, and therefore the HDZ Club will support the law as it is stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91223	Finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91224	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. In a debate before me, a fellow MP, the local leader raised exactly two key issues that plagued the SDP's Club of Representatives and I am not surprised that we agree on two key issues because the best thing about what the population knows is their legitimate and legal representative, the head of local self-government. And when the head of local self-government and municipal councilors who have been elected by citizens whose project is being imposed says there is no communication, I have no reason not to trust them. No communication, at least not bilateral, at least not honest and direct. I saw that Mr. Milatić's associate and, in fact, that she responded to the quote, I will repeat it again, except for the positive impact on the environment, Croatia is fully aware of all economic and energy benefits of nuclear energy thanks to NO Krško. So we have to watch what we write because what's written in the newsletter in one-sided communication to the residents is not true. So nukes don't have a positive impact on the environment, they have a negative impact on the environment. They have less negative influence than maybe some kind of thermal power plant, we said, on coal, but still negative. Let's be honest and that's all the residents of the municipality of Dvor, the head of the municipality of Dvor, municipal councilors are asking the state and representative of the state. As far as the location is concerned, okay, the location is selected, but we need to be honest and direct. It was chosen politically, not selected on a professional basis, and you have confirmed it and has been confirmed here in writing by the proposer. On a political basis. And what happens if the environmental impact study says the procedure is not acceptable to the environment? So what do we do? Says someone before me, counterpart Boris, I think, in his individual debate, in response to what replica the government will know how to react. You know how he'll react? We'll have to pay from the budget. Out of the pockets again of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. More than we would pay if the location were chosen as it should be chosen, on a professional, purely professional basis, as well as a regulation on the assessment of the impact of procedures on the environment. And one more thing, that previous environmental impact assessment is a lower order document than an environmental impact study, a far more analytical and professionally poorer document, and we all know that here. And he knows the public. A fee. We're going on a fee. And how many residents of the municipality of Dvor should have guaranteed compensation for their budget, for their projects, for their quality of life when they receive or do not receive, or when they have to receive such a center in their backyard. How long do you think it's enough for the residents of the Dvor municipality to say, okay, we will, as you wish, install it into a spatial plan and we will directly be neighbours to that kind of project that inevitably affects our quality of life. 12 million kuna, that's the annual budget of the municipality of Dvor. With 2.5 million kuna planned minus in the budget, budget deficits, higher expenditure compared to revenue, I'm talking about the 2020 data, or 2021, because I didn't find the '22 data. Mr. How much do you think your residents deserve? Do not offer them a million kunas as you offered and executed for a very similar security, a project terminal in Omislje. Don't offer them, it's humiliating, don't prescribe. Please provide a fee for this kind of thing that you put people in the yard to really be the compensation of these people, do all the security activities in that municipality in a professional and professional way, and point to this also at the State Inspectorate who does not care about safety in the area of the Municipality of Omisalj. Don't worry, and I'll show you that in the next few days. Don't do that with the Dvor municipality. learn from your own mistakes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They don't deserve it. That. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91225	Now finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91226	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me get this straight, or I'll add something else to the position of the SDSS Club. We think that improving the law is better than not being there and in this sense we welcome it, and we express the questions asked and the concerns expressed are not like some who have received points in the elections these years by organising beer sessions and I don't know what else they do to keep people from knowing what it is. We've never done it or done it, and neither have we turned around when we had to bear part of the burden, with... like some did at the county level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, not to lecture on it now, everyone behaves in the given political circumstances as well as with the rules he thinks he can follow. What's for the SDSS Club is a question, and we want to know what communication is and what stage it is with the neighbors when it's in the middle of the location. Not the location of the impact on whether a decision has been made or no decision has been made, they cannot influence it, but their legitimate question of what is with the protective mechanisms, which is with our concerns. counterpart Brkan said it can be resolved by offering BiH to store that kind of waste here. Okay, and that might be the way. But we need to talk about it under what conditions. Well, I mean, what we store in Krškoma, it's got a price on it. The fact that they'll stop making a problem when we agree, and it has a price to pay. The other thing is, this is what's being asked here as a question, i.e. monitoring and regulator. Since many things have gone the way they did, from spatial plans, strategies, and I don't know what else, it's very important for us that this regulator does his job properly. The fact that we brought the rationalization, let's go now, we'll have less agencies, so we'll put it all in some common bag. That doesn't mean we'll have a better regulator. They stay in the same place, therefore, we won't suspect but there must be some kind of security about it. Monitoring too. No one escapes from that. On the contrary! As good as it is to keep people informed, but it's also good to have a parallel opinion, a parallel system of surveillance. I didn't believe in rumors about being secretly driving to that junkyard today that shouldn't be driving. I went to check two places after that. Both places told me, no, don't drive. Then why should that be a problem? If we want to build trust with citizens, then we build it on several levels. This is also a feature of civil state and civil society. And now what counterpart Ahmetovic has understood, I will underline once more. Here it is said, citizens of Krškoga who have not lost their population since '91. in here because there's a much more dangerous project potential and storage and everything else than this. But not to go back to that story is to keep that community alive. And how are we gonna do that? Are we going to follow the model by which Krško is for a block that may be, for a reactor that may be in a few years, the people of Krško i.e. local self-government are already receiving the funds needed and building trust and enabling development. Why don't we do it in the Court case? At one point communication was stronger than ours, so it didn't work out. Let's fix it and let's get back to it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91227	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Ivo Milatić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the debate, and I am obliged on behalf of the motionary to at least show myself about these things to some who I think is bound to be mentioned here. So we're going from communication. As far as communication is concerned, apart from what the esteemed representative Brkan read clearly that there is this continuous communication of ours through social networks and television, electronic media. And there have been continuous attempts, multiple attempts to get authorized people who know this problem including people from the fund, our fund to appear in a councilman in the Court municipality, to schedule meetings there, and it has been categorically rejected by the mayors of the Court and the President of the Council, which is clearly their legitimate right to refuse them. But it wouldn't have been if we hadn't done it. We have clearly decided in our work programme that we will also make an info point in the municipality of Dvor. We needed space for the info point. We asked the Dvor municipality to provide us with any available space to rent. Regardless of what I personally participated in the assignment of the entire area of the bus station in the Court which is huge, if any of you were in the Court, it was one huge room owned by the Department of Goods and at the request of the municipality of Dvor a few years ago we agreed and the Ministry of State Property and the Government gave the building complete to the municipality of Dvor. And on our quest whether there's room for rent we didn't get from the municipality of Dvor space we gave the municipality of Dvor and we absolutely don't regret it. We were hoping that this space would be rented to us and that we would do something else with it so that we could do what Mr. Pupovac said we really need to take care of the population. I couldn't agree more. This law goes in the direction of this communication towards the population transparently. Why? Because, therefore, the basis of this law will be a regulation that will once again be on public consultation because the government regulation is not some act that can only be passed without being publicly discussed and that will enable what you have said, which means that we will go with financial support or what we will call it to the municipality of Dvor, or according to the population of the municipality of Dvor. Now I'm going to beg all of you, that when we do that regulation, we'll all get involved and we'll make sure that those funds that won't be small, which will be quite, very large when compared to the Court's budget are going in the right direction so that it enables these funds, in fact, to improve the development of the Court municipality, and not to stagnate it. That's why we've been doing a sociological study that you can read and download from the NEC Fund, which says a lot about what the residents think about the whole project and how and how they trust local self-government management and everything else. So it is important now to draw attention to the fact that through a regulation that will define financial amounts, the smallest problem will be to define the financial amounts that will be issued. In my opinion, it is important for us in the ministry, as well as for the orientation that these amounts are used in some part that will be really given, to get some results in the development of the municipality of Dvor. I absolutely agree that other activities are needed by the state. We have recently helped the fire department of the municipality of Dvor and should help with the border crossing. We talked about it a year and a few days ago. It's something that goes in favor of our neighbors in the municipality of Dvor which is very important. So we talked to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs clearly as a resolute ministry within the meaning of this law we were the initiator but physically we are not the ones who can do anything. So these are all directions in which we need to go clearly when it comes to water and draining and everything else. So there should be one organized action of the state towards that space. So the municipality of Dvor for you who may not have known it is the largest municipality in the Republic of Croatia territorially as far as I know if that information is not cheating on me. It means as far as regulators and suspicions are concerned, that is, whether the regulator is going to be, the way it is supposed to be because we ultimately had no objections to the regulator by the Commission about the pilot or this reasoned opinion. We only had objections to the fact that we didn't define institutional waste how and how we're going to do it, and now we've done it here with this law. As far as the topic of CO2 footprint is concerned, it is clear that hydro and nuclear power plants have a minimum CO2 footprint solely because they have a huge life span. They have a vast age of duration and they are definitely the ones that have solar power plants and wind power plants have a much, much larger CO2 footprint than hydro and nuclear themselves, because it is simply the kind of building that is expensive, which its construction takes a lot. But it's not something that can't be calculated. Security standards, monitoring absolutely agrees here. So now we monitor a few of these situations and it's done by authorized companies that have all possible certificates. It's clear that every company can, if necessary, be checked with another monitoring. That's no problem. We just need to establish communication, see who's bothering who, and what should we possibly do if we need to do it twice. When we talk about an environmental impact study, the environmental impact study never determines where something is going to happen, but someone who is called an investor or an interested party is asking to do an environmental impact study for that location to tell if it can be done in that location. So let's not mix pears and apples now. The environmental impact study just says whether it will be possible to do so in that location, and it will not determine the location. Because someone's gonna say I'd like to go to that location to see if it can be done. And these locations that occurred were done by experts. These locations that occurred were made by the regulations of the International Atomic Energy Agency and no one had any objections to that, and that's exactly what happened, what you're all here for. It's right here... It is true that locations were created and scrapped in a way such as by a certain procedure always at the end when I have several locations for any project where only one location is always being sought. [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] And here's where you said everything. These were four locations, I think Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash said they were four locations that were all identical in terms of potential but someone decided by the power of political will and electoral legitimacy that of the 4 same to choose this one. And that's what it is. So I have nothing else to add but to say that the flat-rate assessment that Croatia has not used anything from renewable sources is particularly hydro potential and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91229	.../Intruder Reiner: Please note. I don't know who's been talking there the whole time and distracting the speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91230	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91231	.../Intruder Reiner: It is indeed a matter of fundamental decency to let the speaker speak./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91232	So as far as renewable sources are concerned, I categorically refuse that Croatia has done nothing. In fact, Croatia is sixth in that view to EUROSTAT, you have those fine charts where it says nicely how much of which country participates in total energy consumption with renewable sources. Croatia is the sixth of the 28 EU countries. So you can't say that Croatia didn't do anything. I can say here that according to the law that this esteemed House adopted in the tenth month of last year, that we now had a statement of interest, that on that statement of interest under Article 133. There have been 6000 megawatts of demand, that objectively it will fall safely some 2,000 megawatts of unfounded requirements, and that when all of this is profiled and created competitions and expected with local self-government spatial-planning documentation and all documents that surely one, two, two and a half thousand megawatts of new plants will be in... that has to be built plus Senj, Kosinj and possibly the Vrdovo hydropower plant which is prior to obtaining the location permit and then building permits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can't say that Croatia does nothing. We're actively working to get all of this started, because we didn't anticipate these NPO funds for building a network. We will work on a whole new methodology when it comes to the accession that will go towards all corners of Croatia being stimulated. You've had the creation now... A network where 80% of the connection was paid by an investor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was good for those who were close to the network, and those who were far away in some places like the Court and all the others had to create millions of giants for it and then no projects happened. We will now ask to use the megawatt development price in terms of creation... The network so that all parts of Croatia can develop more uniformly and that investors can be interested in areas, clearly which are in the spatial plan, have adequate documentation elsewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I think I made myself clear. What I am stressing once again means once this law is passed, we will be able to approach the regulation very quickly. She's very important to us especially for the part about the local community, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry I forgot to say that because you asked Reverend Pupovac on the subject of co-operation with the neighbours. The neighbors have been to our house several times and on official visits. Neighbors have also visited a potential location. I'm talking about people from their regulatory body, their departments dealing with it. So we communicate with them and clearly we will communicate because this is the basic policy of good neighbourly relations and the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency make us do so, that when all this is done, we simply have to respect certain information and everything that is going on as the Slovenians have asked us to take note of their potential dump in Vrbina, which is the note at the end of the Sava in the water pass area and which is the same thing we could all talk about here as well as in what way. But there is a clear procedure, and let the experts analyze it, and therefore we will manifest ourselves. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91233	We have two replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91234	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, here I must again express my disagreement with the decision to be in Sisak-Moslavina County but also generally in Croatia for the disposal of nuclear waste. It is also my personal position and attitude of the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina County. We sincerely expected that more efforts would be made in dialogue with Slovenia, not only on the care of half of the radioactive waste that will result from the decommissioning of Krško's nuclear power plant, but also on this institutional waste that is created in Croatia. The disagreement was expressed by our neighbours from Bosnia and Herzegovina,... You're talking to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good to talk, because we're required... Conventions one and the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say I was kind of struck by your word when you said, so here we are helping the residents there. We gave some DVD some money. I was this weekend in Ironsk, which is known as the place of Croatian heroism where macadam lives, where 13 residents who hold hounds don't want their wild boars to destroy what little cattle they have. So that end is forgotten. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91235	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91236	As for this subject with Slovenia, let me say it one more time. Here means the Slovenian Government, the Slovenian Parliament has made a decision that institutional waste from the Republic of Croatia cannot be made in Slovenia. And so that's where we're just in a stalemate. You can't solve one thing without solving another. And I can bring you that exact data when it was what it was. Secondly, the construction of their dump is more expensive than our dump, but we could talk about it if they offered that both the disposal from the power plant and the disposal from institutional waste would be possible in Slovenia, then we would talk about finance. It's not just my position, it's all of us in the ministry and the whole government. But you can just do what you can. If you haven't solved something, then you can't go into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91237	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91238	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to ask, since I think the Dvor municipality of this project can only have infrastructure and economic and financial benefits, the question of whether this radioactive waste management centre can use Bosnia and Herzegovina in our law at all, with compensation, of course, if it had the need to do so. And if it's even regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91239	Yes, as far as I know, we've laid down the possibility in law. But in order for that to happen, it's not enough just to have the possibility in law. This is then about interstate agreements to be negotiated, agreed, in both parliaments to adopt, and then it would eventually happen. Because our own waste transportation to other countries to return to Croatia will come to this esteemed House very definitely with a proposal for an interstate contract with a particular country where it was agreed because it was simply a procedure like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91240	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is - The proposal for a decision to declare March with a month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Silvio Basic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91252	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. I warmly welcome you all. The burdens of oncological diseases they carry with them and towards cancer patients and towards their families and towards the health system and the entire community are not only current in the Republic of Croatia but throughout the world, so the Ministry of Health monitors trends and activities with both EU member states and with numerous world organisations, monitors their health policy and agrees with the currents. So also with this point where European and world organisations dedicated March to fighting colon cancer. In accordance with this, we have proposed a declaration of the month of March with a month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia. This is based on the fact that colon cancer is one of the leading causes of mortality and pain in the world, and in the Republic of Croatia, colon cancer is another cause of mortality from malignant neoplasms. In the total number of newly ill cancers, about 15% of men and 13% of women suffer precisely from colon and colon cancer, i.e. on average 10 people a day, and unfortunately, 6 people die. At the annual level, we speak of some 3,500 newly ill, or about 2,200 deceased. I would point out that in the fight against this disease, the Republic of Croatia is organised, there is a well-organised national programme for early detection of colon and colon cancer that has lasted since 2008 and has not even stopped during this pandemic. The response of 35, 45 or even 55% in individual counties if you see that every human life, that every saved human life in this way is worth all the activities you've taken is good. However, if you look like us in a way that there is still a lot of room to improve this response, then it is clear that there is also a need for additional engagement and additional activities in this direction. That's why we're here today to further sensitize this problem. We believe and know that it is crucial to raise awareness of the possibilities of the prevention of colon and colon cancer between doctors and healthcare professionals, and perhaps even more among citizens of all age groups, and in order to increase the response of our citizens to this particular breakthrough. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to further inform citizens about the breakthrough, about the possibilities of breakthrough and of this disease, and to intensify education and the overall campaign to popularise this preventive national programme of early detection of colon cancer. We believe that this will not only sensitize our citizens to respond to this rehearsal but also to other outbreaks against malignant diseases that are ongoing in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this campaign certainly should not and should focus not only on response but also on anything that reduces the incidence of cancer diseases, which is primarily a change in lifestyle, more physical activity, the adoption of a healthy lifestyle, and about healthy nutrition, and about the discontinuation of smoking, the reduction of smoking, alcohol consumption and other activities. Because only early timely detection of malignancies, but even better prevention and prevention of the development of these diseases enables better quality of life for our citizens, increases survival, i.e. the experience of life expectancy. I propose that you accept this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Health and adopt a proposal to declare the month of March with awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91253	Stay here, please, because there are more replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91254	Thank you very much. The esteemed secretary of state, without a doubt, is commendable in any further raising of awareness of the reduction of the disease, or the death of cancer. However, we have waited very long for the National Strategic Framework against Cancer and the profession says that this national framework has not yet been implemented and we will certainly talk during the debate. I would like to know how you imagined, how the campaign will take place in that month of March, how the state or ministry will engage further. Do you have some kind of hodogram that you're going to be doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91255	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91256	Well, for information to the citizens who are watching us, and you certainly know very well that activities are in the fight against any disease, and so are these diseases in continuity. So the national strategic framework and the action plan simply reflect all previous activities only complete and upgrade them. So I don't see any big problem why the national strategic framework was recently adopted. Because simply by adopting an action plan or a national strategic framework, the activities that have already been initiated have not been interrupted. In fact, as far as these activities are concerned, I can't exactly tell you because the month of March has not yet been declared by the month of consciousness of colon cancer in our country. Of course there are preparations and plans and by respecting the procedure we wait for, we hope that he will be declared. After that, we'll start with a number of activities, and I said primarily...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91257	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as you mentioned the first call cycle started in 2008. During the fourth cycle there was a pandemic of covids and this caused some difficulties which was in some way expected due to the overload of the overall health system by the situation around covida-19. I wonder if you have any information regarding this special fifth cycle that started in May 2021 and what the response of citizens is and how you see engagement and primary health care, so family doctors and patronage nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91259	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91260	The surprising response is not significantly lower than in recent years. Of course it's something smaller, but not just because of the overloading of the health system, but simply because of the fear of the citizens and the withdrawal of the citizens. As regards the involvement of family medicine, there are more considerations as to how family medicine will be further involved in the way that it stimulates these people or this percentage of our citizens who have not responded to all preventive checks. However, we can discuss this when the final plans are adopted. Now engagement exists not in taking over the activities so far, but in being an additional link between these programmes and citizens so that our citizens who have not responded and should respond are further stimulated either by direct contact or by means of a patronage service or otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91261	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91262	Good afternoon. Now we have days of this and that, the moon of consciousness. Perhaps it would be urgent to declare a month of mourning over the victims of the crown of 14000 almost 300 people and resign perhaps the minister for it. But let's say that this proposal of yours is here before us, so let's ask some kind of question about it. So what doctors say isn't exactly how you put the situation here that we have individual guilt, that people don't respond to checks. Unfortunately, I also have a personal experience in the family. It's been a matter of months waiting for the exams. That if all people really responded to those calls, there would actually be a stalemate. We don't have enough doctors, we don't have enough equipment, we don't have enough rooms. Somewhere around 2,600 people shouldn't have died of colon cancer by some estimates. We are the worst country, only one country is worse than us in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91263	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91264	I don't remember saying there was an individual patient's responsibility, but I'll also remind you that the response to this screening patient doesn't have to go anywhere, but simply that this colon cancer screening works on its own in the house. So I don't see where the health ministry's problem would be or anyone else's. Except that we need to step up the campaign, that we need to tell people that cancer is not an invincible disease, that there are people who are cured of malignancies, as well as this cancer, and that the prerequisite for quality treatment is precisely timely diagnosis, or even better prevention of life-style change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91265	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Often, patients, or people who need to perform this examination of the acute examination of the stool’s bleeding, tell us that it is technically very difficult to perform. Is there any progress here? Are we going to introduce some new diagnostic way to prevent people from responding because it's technically quite difficult for them to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91267	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91268	So whether something technical is difficult or not it's not difficult to do it again remains on each of us as well as aware of the need to respond to such a breakthrough. I have to admit here from one personal experience that it was a technical problem for me, because at this point I need to take three consecutive samples of the chair. This is also taken into account and our commission for this type of malignant disease has just recommended that we change the paradigm, apply tests that are more expensive but are technically much simpler for our citizens where only one time will be enough to take a chair. Hopefully that's how we're going to increase our response to the rehearsal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91269	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91270	Thank you. I really don't understand what's fundamentally changing for any cancer patient or people who should be alerted to the possibility of becoming aware of a month of cancer as suggested, or who should become aware. Shouldn't government first of all become aware of the situation in Croatian hospitals, lack of medical staff, too long waiting lists, inability to come to any examinations even for those who have a disease, let alone for those who should be careful of their health. Should the Government be aware of the debt to large-scale drugs and the inability to settle them neatly? Should she be aware that our patients, mass oncology patients, are being given bad drugs instead of the smart ones that would help them treat this disease better? So what's changing? Except for a mere commercial that serves absolutely no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91271	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91272	You've asked a lot of questions, and none of the questions are about the subject. I think that as a doctor, if always and as much as necessary to highlight problems, health problems in order to raise awareness to our citizens that prevention can be done. Because if we are one of the whitest or possibly the most vulnerable nations in the EU, if we have a very high number of people who smoke and consume alcohol, then I think there's a lot of room for something to change just by this kind of action and not by repressive measures. And as far as all of this is concerned, it takes me one half hour to give you an argument, and I can briefly say that everything you said absolutely or most of what you said is wrongly interpreted or not standing. Today we are using the most modern medicines available in the world. The number of citizens is, all patients and citizens are allowed timely access. Unfortunately, maybe some of the reasons they currently have or they think...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91273	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91274	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. You yourself said in your introduction the importance of the role of prevention through the national early detection program of colon cancer. But I'm curious now, you also mentioned how smoking, alcohol, etc. should be avoided. But you also mentioned exercise and the important effect of food culture can be said. Is there, besides this national programme, a concern that is one of the most important things, which is food, a body culture. So whether this is also a matter of concern for the creation of a program or a programme that will, in parallel, be one of the most important conditions to reduce, say, the number of particularly fatalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91275	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91276	Take care of yourself. Raising the level of consciousness and all that you've listed cannot be and is not exclusively up to me, the Ministry of Health. It is a multi-resulting issue, including the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance and ultimately the Ministry of Tourism. And there are conversations and plans to contribute to this direction and primarily to increase physical activity from the school age itself, means in primary schools the number of hours of physical education, in secondary schools, and in college, to see how it might be stressed not to repressively stimulate people to change, to reject harmful life habits, and to apply healthy habits. It means reducing and reducing or eliminating smoking, alcohol consumption and this may be a beautiful presentation of the Republic of Croatia as a healthy tourist destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91277	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, 10 people daily learn that they have colon cancer, six of them die daily from the disease. You yourself mentioned that this initiative wants to boost citizens' awareness, that if cancer is discovered in time it can be treatable. The national early detection programme includes the age age population between 50 and 74 years of age. According to some of the life data I'm meeting, more and more young people below this age limit are getting worse than colon cancer. We know that colonoscopy is actually the safest diagnostic method in this sense. I wonder if there was any thought that this age-limit would eventually bring this national programme down to below 50 years? And do you happen to have data on this entire covid pandemic that has disrupted the usual preventive examinations and diagnostics whether it has in any way affected waiting lists when it comes to colonoscopy and colon cancer detection?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91279	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91280	Yeah, take care of it, think about it. But as I was saying at the outset, we're coordinating our activities with our activities in the world. The problem of cancer, pain and unfortunately death from cancer is not the problem of the Republic of Croatia, but is unfortunately a whole developed and undeveloped world. We always like to compare ourselves with those who are richer than us let's say more developed financially, etc. And they have a large number as much as we do, and we're simply trying to find one reasonable measure to cover as many citizens as possible. A controversial question when we've covered people with such a simple measure, here we've heard of perhaps some technically complicated search. Imagine how much more response would be to colonoscopy, which is much more invasive, requires much greater preparation and could have been more complicated. Yeah, we're talking, talking, and not only are we talking about this, but we're also talking about improving the care of cancer patients with a special methodology so that they have the highest priority in all the tests, not just the first exam, but the other diagnostics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91281	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91282	Dear secretary, there are a number of family doctors who are really working on their patients and who warn patients about the problems they may have when they arrive in certain years and have to carry out these preventive checks. But one part simply ignores it. The worst is when you get to know it, this disease, and how severe it is, and how dangerous it is when someone in your family gets sick or one of your friends. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you if you might know how many dead in the covid crisis were in percentage of the colon tumor compared to the previous years. And do you have any estimates of how much you might now agree to additional new patients who would come for preventive examinations with this kind of action?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91283	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91284	Well, I think the health system in the Republic of Croatia is one of the best organized systems, because we think that all the employees of this system and the doctors and nurses, the technicians, all the others, so that I don't insult someone that I forgot to give to the maximum myself or very much myself. So this finding that some do a little bit more or better work some little bit I think it can be repainted into any system. But I think that the doctors of family medicine have really done a lot during this covid pandemic and thank them for that, and of course they will continue to work, even in this respect. I don't have the exact numbers. I can tell you that right now. But you can get it. But from the information that I have that even the number of deaths is down, but I wouldn't be more specific about it because I don't have the numbers right now. I can get them ready, so I can send them to you. And what I said was what number, so we're hoping for up to 100 percent. Our goal is 100%. Of course it'll never be 100%, but that's our goal. If we have 35, 45, 50%, that's where the answer lies on which target population we shoot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91285	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91286	Thank you, Vice President. So we can say that the last two years of the topic of health, the disease is also relatively common in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, in Croatian politics primarily thanks to the corona virus that has somehow brought us to it. But what I'd like to say when we talk about the concept of health, I think some colleagues get it wrong. Health is one gift that we all get, which we all really need to keep and keep by having, which we have a healthy lifestyle, which we're doing systematic checks, which we go to pressure control, sugar, I don't know all kinds of other things, which we stick to preventive measures, which we inject when we need to, which is what we stick to the measure of epidemiological when we have this kind of pandemic. And if we took care of ourselves and wanted to be healthy, then there would be much less sick and dead at this time of the crown. And that's why I think that these national preventive programmes are very important, too, so we need to promote them to make people aware that they're taking care of their health and that's why they have to be as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91287	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91288	Thank you for these words. I completely agree with you, because somehow it's constantly going through conversations of someone's responsibility that we don't run away from if we're talking about the health system, and also doctors and the health ministry. But we must also understand that every man must take responsibility for his health. And it's gonna do the most I'm doing right now. I'm already boring my own lifestyle change. We know that life style is very bad in the Republic of Croatia. By non-smoking, non-consummation of alcohol, greater physical activity, we will therefore make a significant step in improving the health situation in our nation not only in the treatment of malignant diseases but also in cardiovascular failures that are the first cause of mortality and cerebrovascular death which are the second cause of mortality as well as the change in lifestyle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91289	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You may return to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's representative, will speak to the esteemed representative, Ivana Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91290	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues are here to begin several facts about colorectal cancer, the third most common cancer in men, the second most common among women in the world, the second cause of death from cancer in the world. In Croatia, the first cause of cancer death in women, the second among men after lung cancer. So 1 out of 23 men, 1 out of 25 women will suffer from colorectal cancer of which 25 to 30% have a family history of colorectal cancer itself. The cost of treatment clearly increases as the disease is later detected, while the chance of healing decreases drastically. It's a disease where even 60% of deaths can be prevented by screening. So, screening in medicine represents detecting some disease or condition code to the eye of a healthy population and while a whole series of diseases primarily oncology does not have an adequate and accessible screening method colorectal cancer, so fortunately there is and it is a hemocult test. Therefore, it can be performed under home conditions, detecting blood in the chair before other symptoms occur and can then be determined on a colonoscopy with coroletal cancer at a very early and very healing stage. It should be done in the entire population over 50 every 2 years. In our national program, we use the Guajak test, which is a cheaper version, unfortunately, and less reliable and more complicated to use, so it looks for diet, requires more samples, etc. There is an even fit test, an immunochemical that is more reliable than certainly more expensive. In principle, about 5% of all positive test haemocultes will be cancer, and 15% of polyps that can be precancerosis, so they're being monitored. But with us, the basic problem is not the question of the test, the choice of the test, etc., but the absolute miserly response of the population to the screening using hemocult tests. So, as part of our national programme calling for people from 50 to 74 years, only 21% of the population called respond. At the beginning of the national program they sent a hemocult test to everyone, and then after spending a lot of money, and a lot of people's test didn't come back, they came up with a better method of sending a call first, so when you get a call you first have to send a letter to get a hemocult test, and she sends you a hemocult test and then you have to return it again by mail. Of course, this method has led to 80% of people in Croatia with newly discovered colorectal cancer discovering the same only when significant symptoms, anaemia, weight loss, chronic fatigue, etc. occur in 3 stages of the disease when the treatment is more complicated, expensive and worst failure. So if in percent if the colorectal cancer in the polyps phase is 100%, if you discover it in the first stage, the survival rate in the five-year period is above 90%, and in the fourth stage, the five-year survival is barely 10% to 20%. I repeat, 80% of colorectal cancers are detected in 3 and 4 stages. This would suggest that in the fight with colorectal cancer where we are significantly worse than other European countries, we are the key prevention and key early detection. Here we don't have to go far, our first Slovenian neighbours using their screening program include 60% of citizens and citizens, so they have a 60% response, we have 21%. This has certainly reduced the proportion of patients who are revealed in phase 3 and 4 of the disease, and thus have achieved strong, targeted and convincing public health campaigns, citizenship education, loud calls for screening, and have entire teams dealing with certain cancers that are the main task of communicating with people and motivate them to prevent procedures. So they were still in 2007, so before we calculated 14-15 years ago, they realized they had to develop serious strategies if they wanted to drastically prevent and reduce mortality. They have several major prevention programs that are Dora for breast cancer, Zora for uterine cancer, and Sweet for belts that have achieved excellent results and are now a real example of good practice actually throughout Europe. And they don't have any big secrets, in fact their prevention program is based on communication, which means that if a man doesn't return his hemocult test, nothing happens to us he didn't bring it back to anyone, so he didn't even get it if he didn't write the first letter, he was called back in Slovenia. So the same team that invites people to hemocult tests automatically watches which are positive and automatically arranges a term for colonoscopy. So they're the key link between the patient and the endoscopics. There are special documents that deal only with the communication strategy. In addition, much more than we appreciate our primary practice and family doctors and further motivate them and further gratify them to work in the prevention of colorectal cancer. So you can see on their extensive web pages, with us being one A4 about our prevention, there you have pdv, pdf of a hundred pages where the doctor of primary practice says. After I get a list of those who didn't respond to the screening test first her nurse calls everything and encourages patients to participate in the screening. Those who do not return receive an invitation to report to the infirmary where all questions are answered in a direct conversation and explain the importance of the examination. The method works says doctor. So how come the method doesn't work with us? So certainly because we do not apply such direct communication, education and motivation of our citizens and citizens. However, since we are also half the mortality of colorectal cancer along with Slovakia at the very bottom of the EU as unfortunately so many other diseases, perhaps we should begin. Also, in case the ministry wants to decide to move in the Slovenian direction, it is indeed committed primarily to increasing its response to the screening testing that we are rooting for, then it would be necessary to increase the capacity and resources for the implementation of the colonoscopy, whose number will inevitably increase in this case. It is also important to improve communication between doctors in primary and endoscopic specialists. So we will support this initiative from the Green-Left bloc to make the month March become a month where we raise awareness of the danger and importance of early detection of colorectal cancer. But we do appeal to the ruling and ministry who have all the tools in their hands that this public health initiative does not come down as most others to colorful balloons and one beautiful Saturday in the Flower Square, but that you are seriously revising our national early detection programme, which is obviously bad and does not achieve goals because only 20% respond to the screening that should be reported to you from 50 to 74, etc. the years and the necessary changes to make our mortality significantly lower. And you don't need to think too much, here's everything on our Slovenian colleagues' website.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91291	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, despite their industriousness and education of our health care workers, is yet one of the worst indicators of the real state of our system of death indicators of causes that could have been avoided or deaths that would not have occurred if patients had access to timely and effective health care that is significantly more than the EU average for Croatia, means 141 per 100,000 people compared to the EU average of 110.8. And the majority of these deaths in Croatia are deaths from cardiovascular diseases, colon and breast cancers. There is still a condition with an indication of mortality from causes that could be prevented by better public health prevention such as lung cancer, alcohol consumption-related diseases, car accidents, we are here as 3 Croatia in 3 places in the EU. Unfortunately, Croatia does not stand better for many other indicators, especially in terms of oncology treatment, since the cancer mortality rate for Croatia is the second highest in the EU. As for these markings of different days, here I am, as a diabetic, will definitely support it because here we always join 14.11. On the global day of diabetes, we hope to vote on the Croatian day of diabetes on May 14th, we should certainly raise awareness of our fellow citizens they must be partners in the treatment, so partners to us healthcare professionals. And just when we're marking different days as we've had now on Friday World Cancer Day, so Red Dress Day if at least we've animated each and every one of us through social networks or something like that we've done well. According to the cancer register in our HZZ in 2019, the number of newly diagnosed malignancies in Croatia was 25.352, deceased 13.344, and the most common cause of death for those under 65 years of age was death by more than 40% of those who died at that age. Now, how many people with cancer live in Croatia, how many people have actually been cured, we don't really have known the data, is estimated at around 170,000 of our fellow cancerd citizens, but we don't know how many of them are currently being treated actively, how many paliatical patients. Today we had on the Health Committee, we discussed the announcement of a national day of cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia that would be the first Sunday of June and we will definitely support it. The European Anti-cancer Plan was adopted by the European Commission recently on 3 February. The goal is to solve the cancer problem at all levels. The plan is structured into 4 key areas, prevention, early detection, treatment and diagnostics and quality of life for cancer patients and survivors. This will be supported by measures to be taken in different policy areas from education, social policy, equality, employment, advertising, energy, environment, climate, etc. In the EU, 4 billion euros will be allocated to this, as here data say that in the EU, cancer is diagnosed with about 3.5 million people each year and 1.3 million people die, and in more than 40% of cases cancer can be prevented. We, as I mentioned in the replica, really waited years for, on the national strategic framework against cancer, finally brought it here in December 2020. I would like to remind us of what our strategic goals are, so primary prevention, secondary prevention, cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, palitative care and pain marking. The profession says, as I said, that unfortunately, the strategic framework against cancer has not yet been implemented properly. So we all have to work to raise awareness of cancers, prevention, improvement of life habits, response to screening programs, availability of treatment, psychological assistance to patients with cancer and other serious diseases. We are not good at the organisation of palitative care and should certainly give recognitions and associations that have great importance in carrying our cancer patients. As far as the National Early Inflammation Programme is concerned, something was already said in 2007, the national programme was adopted, aimed at, of course, early cancer detection, and in asymptomatically healthy persons of both sexes, and the long-term goal is to reduce the pain and mortality of this cancer crop, improve the quality of life of the sick, early diagnostics and improve the health of the population. So every 2 years, calls are sent to men and women from 50 to 74 years of age, and then people with positive results are referred to a selective colonoscopy. And now, as far as the Covid pandemic programme is concerned, there has been a three to four-month interruption. According to some reports, some of these have been compensated but a reduced number of regular colinoscopys has been reported, and this will certainly affect further improvement or mortality. Public Health Services have done the job of calling, testing, ordering colinoscopes, educational activities, but I say given the burden of the health system otherwise, and also the pandemic, unfortunately, we will only see how many malignancies will be discovered later and too late. As far as the Moon of Consciousness about colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, of course, we support it as a club. We received data here at a recent thematic session dedicated to oncology patients that the ministry had taken certain steps and memos sent to hospitals to adapt to the epidemiological situation, to organise the work so that there was no delay in the care of cancer patients. From what I've seen, only 30 hospitals this hospital gave their reports, we don't really know about all the hospitals we're going to get then and for all of them. The fact is that the number of hospitalizations due to malignant neoplasms in 2019 at 2020 has been reduced in the stationary area but there has been more care through the daily hospitals. Now, if I want to be better at treating cancer, we must certainly implement everything that is said in the national strategic framework and everyone needs to solve the problem of radiotherapy. We're getting critical about that, too. There are not enough radiotherapy devices, they often break down, radiation delays, and that's a really big problem for our patients. Although we have theoretically all modern methods of treatment available to us, implementation of what is said in the strategic framework where and how and who will be treated. Every day the consequences of working in the Republic of Croatia die according to data from 39 people, and we have already said that every year more than 25,000 people suffer from malignant diseases, and it is therefore very important to make a quality hodogram or plan for what this campaign will look like in this month. Developed countries in the north and west of Europe have a higher incidence of oncological diseases, but in the lower stages they reveal themselves and there is a lower mortality. I said here we are really bad about it. Our biggest problem is detecting malignant diseases in a more advanced stage than in other countries. The response to the early detection program for colon cancer is 20-21%, and the breast is 60% and there should really be all the strength to get as many people as possible to these preventive programs. We also need to clearly define the so-called. The pathway of patients where, and within what time-limit, they should be given as far as diagnostics or treatment are concerned. We still don't have the accreditation of hospitals or cancer centers. The question is how many of us actually have oncology centers in the Republic of Croatia. Practically, most institutions have much to do with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, oncology, so it is necessary to establish a quality oncology network, which is primarily at the ministry. Treatment outcome monitoring is required. The profession is there, oncological societies that provide guidelines for monitoring oncology patients or instructions on how to rationally control or treat patients. And family medicine doctors should certainly be included in the comprehensive care of an oncology patient here, a colleague of Kekin gave good examples of what it looks like in other countries. Of course, our primarys do not need to be overburdened needlessly or should actually be further motivated and rewarded, but with clear guidelines on how they will be further involved. So I say once again that we will support this proposal and certainly seek and insist that what is stated in the national strategic framework begin and implement as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91293	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91294	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, according to counterpart Miletic, Mr. Bukarica, state secretary, according to the latest published data from the HZJZ Cancer Register, colon cancer is the third most common form of cancer in men behind prostate cancer and lung cancer and the second most common form of cancer in women behind breast cancer. This is in the total number of newly cancer patients 15% of men and 13% of women who have colon cancer. More than 3,500 newly ill persons with colon cancer have been discovered annually in the Republic of Croatia, and in more than half of them, the disease has unfortunately already spread. In the year, we have an average death of 2,200 people from colon cancer and then someone says we shouldn't talk about it, and we don't have to devote one month to all of us talking about it together. The risk of developing colon cancer increases significantly after 40 years of life, and 90% of all cancers are detected in persons over 50 years of age. Each person over 50 years of age carries 5% of the risk of developing colon cancer by 74 years or 2.5% of the risk of dying of colon cancer. Approximately 25% of patients have a family history of colon cancer, and 15% of them are related to their front row. In addition to inheritance, it has been proven for the development of this disease and the impact of diet and physical activity on the risk of developing colon cancer. Excessive weight and diabetes are associated with moderately increased risk of smoking is associated with an increased risk of cancer of all localities including colon cancer. The high risk groups include people with a history of previous colon cancer, colon adenoma, patients with hereditary polypous syndromes, ucurous colitis and chronic disease, and people with other cancers also have an increased risk of developing colon cancer. Since colon cancer develops slowly, a preventive examination of the chair may reveal it significantly before the first symptoms occur and we should use it. Early detection of colon cancer reduces the need for major mutilating surgery, which is not irrelevant for the patient. Discovering colon cancer at an early stage can save many lives. Early detection methods of the early detection of the large intestine are also helpful in detecting polyps that are a predicate to the development of colon cancer. In this way, exposed and removed polyps are a successful prevention of further development of colon cancer. Testing invisible blood in the chair is a simple method to detect this invisible blood for the eye in the chair, which is often the first sign of polyps or other colon disease that requires continued treatment. The government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the importance of this discovery of colon cancer and the size of this public-health problem was adopted in 2007 by the National programme for early detection of colon cancer with the aim of detecting malignant colon tumors at an early and limited stage when possible to cure better outcomes. The goal is to reduce the mortality of colon cancer by at least 15% over a period of 10 years after the implementation of the programme. As with EU countries, the programme is implemented over a two-year period and includes a population of breakthroughs aged 50-74. The basic method is to examine the chair on occult bleeding. All subjects with positive findings on occult fecal bleeding are referred to a colonoscopic examination to determine the further cause of bleeding. Unfortunately, the response to the national early detection program for colon cancer is not satisfactory. It's 25 to 45% addiction in which county. Therefore, in the future it is necessary to sensitize us health care professionals, as well as the general public and the general public on the importance of early detection of colon cancer, and to encourage early cancer detection testing so that as little as possible our fellow citizens die. It is also of great importance to encourage the adoption of positive life habits that include the adoption of proper eating habits and physical activities. It has been shown that food rich in fibers and fruits with a lower fat content in food avoid excessively fried, smoked, salty foods as well as moderate physical activity contributes significantly to the reduction of pain from this cancer crop. Also, people with a positive history whose family had colon cancer, previous polyps and inflammatory diseases should be particularly encouraged to have more frequent examinations and to start a check-up at the earlier age of 50. Because these people are extremely high risk of colon cancer and in this month that I hope we will all agree that we should, we should also contribute to including these groups in sensitisation, to understand how much danger they are at risk for. The main reason for continued high mortality is already mentioned the condition of colon cancer at the time of diagnosis, since less than ten percent of all colon cancers are localized only on bowel walls when they are still in that stage of disease that is almost completely treatable. The goal is to detect colon cancer at the earliest stage of the disease when survival is, of course, greater. And encouraging healthy habits of life will prevent the very occurrence of colon cancer or contribute significantly to its lower incidence. When I look at us like this, there's a lot of us here for nearly 50 years, so when the envelope comes from the Croatian Institute of Public Health that offers to do a review of the occult bleeding chair, we do it because that's what we keep ourselves and we keep ourselves safe for our loved ones with whom we live, that we can be much more together. It is therefore important that the whole month of March, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, be declared a national month of awareness of colon cancer in order to further sensitize all together on the importance of responding to preventive examinations of the chair and all other preventive checks that will be able to detect colon cancer at an earlier stage of the disease, and the Croatian Democratic Community club will be happy to support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a month of awareness of colon cancer and I expect that on Friday we will be at a vote if we are around anything else to be unique about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91295	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Renate Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91296	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues here today we've really been pretty busy about a lot of health issues today. So the proposal for a decision to declare the month of March with a month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia is one commendable proposal. At this point, we, even though respected professors say on average 44 persons in the Republic of Croatia die because of various malignancies. The secretary of state said they were made to, from the cancer of the colon, six people died. Recently, we had, therefore, a session of the Health Committee thematic meeting of the Day against Cancer, that is, cancer, and that is what has been pointed out. There are several modes of action, it's good to prevent it, it's good to respond when we get a call for colon cancer, to do these tests that are required of us, but we need to know that somewhere important is that those patients who have already been diagnosed with a disease or suspected of having a disease through a simple management of institutions go through their own processing, that is to make it easier for these patients to start treatment themselves because it's the most significant phase. Good diagnosis, good therapy and then you should tell them that cancer is treatable, that you can live with it, that you can turn into a chronic disease and also warn them about it. I won't be long, it's been said more or less before me, so I will only point out once again that we will support this government proposal, and I will also inform you that today the proposal for a decision to declare the first week of June on cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia. It is important that citizens know that it is now a disease that can be treated and that there are already many of our fellow citizens who live with it or are cured of it. Here, so I invite you to put this in session as soon as possible so that by June we can mark this day, and of course I welcome once again this government initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91297	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91298	Well, of course we can't say that we're against this month's awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia, but we still need to be a little realistic and repeat we have days of this and that, months of this and that, here it's much more important to concentrate on prevention, and the month of mourning I think we should still declare related to the victims of the crown, meaning 14,000 almost, 14,300 dead today, so 2.5 times worse than Germany, 50 and something people are dying, in Germany 150, 21 times more people have Germany. So we have a situation where it would really be much better to concentrate on prevention, alarm and enable each person to be completely free of charge of yearly preventive testing and on these mostly preventable tumour diseases, and this test on occult bleeding in the chair is one of those examinations. By testing blood in the chair it's possible to reduce mortality means colon cancer and when I ask the secretary a question means well, a series of things I've asked as a question why it's not working, then you answer me well, but we're not talking about colonoscopy here at all, we're talking about a test on occult bleeding in a chair for which you don't need to go for a review. I warned that there were too few doctors, that there was too little equipment, that there was too little room, but it clearly means that we first had this preventive test after which new steps followed. And more colleagues have warned exactly that, and the problem is that we don't have clearly defined steps, that we don't actually have a systematization of these steps, that we don't have a follow-up of this disease as well as a series of other diseases. It is therefore essential to monitor which interventions were effective, in which time, which produced the least cost, which type of experts was included in all and that means that they should be monitored in all diseases, not only in this one. We also don't have any updated data on any disease, so we don't have a register or data for this disease or, say, mammography or anything like that, means checks that would be useful to us, and that's all the consequence of the chaos that's going on here. And then when it's said that we're doing everything, so not only are we not doing everything and I can even agree there, I mean, agree, I can be a little reserved against those grades that they said we should mean to give our nurses to intensively invite people to those checks. We have too few nurses, so our primary health care would have suffered a lot that such extensive measures might be introduced to us because we are sub-optimed with the meaning of workers who could do it at all, but means when we talk about this particular disease then we should consider that not only the criteria of calling on the meaning of this test of the year, it shouldn't be a year, but it should be genetic predisposition because this disease is specific and this disease should really be taken into account that genetic predisposition when you have meaning, I have and personal meaning in the family that this problem then invites you to review earlier and actually you 50.g. No, it's not that line. Therefore, it should also include those who have genetic predisposition in this disease especially because the disease can be detected at the initial stage when the chances of healing are high, but it is also a disease that is very difficult to diagnose. What I also reacted to, of course, that you did not say that, you did not say, that people are responsible for themselves and that they are coming down to an individual level, but when you read your report, it means this proposal to declare the month of March "The month of awareness of colon cancer in the Republic of Croatia" then you really get the impression that individual guilt still comes first in terms of meaning that we have come to people because of the crown, because of the fear of infection, this number of signs of preventive examinations have been reduced. But it's not, it's not just true, it means that the others pointed out here, the patients respond to how many they call, so if we're active, if the patients call, they'll respond. In addition, what I warned myself about, as I was warned by healthcare professionals, when a sufficient number of people responded to, say, that somewhere 65% of responses would be good statistics, and we have already heard that it means only 20% of responses, but if the response means after the first test and the need means colonoscopy would be, it would be to a full extent, and we all warn that this is simply not true, means that people are long waiting for a diagnostic review and up to 6 months and it is the easiest thing to bring everything down to an individual level, but the fact that we are among the worst in the EU according to colon cancer, that only one country worse than us is not just the result of some mentality which unfortunately in this assembly is too often used as an excuse for all, means we have 13,500 dead somewhere that 2000 to 2500, 600 people should not have died already appeared to a doctor. What could still be stated here is that it is also, I don't know if it was actually mentioned in the report itself, but preventive examinations in the Republic of Croatia are means colon, breast, uterus, and they are interrupted at the end of 2020, then a new meaning is introduced to prevent lung cancer and are restarted by the colon and breast, uterus does not. So that's what you should mention. And what is ultimately part of this topic, and in our case it's extremely dramaticly bad, it's a palitarian concern. So we're talking about prevention here and that people need to be tested, that people need to discover colon cancer early, but of course when we talk about colon cancer like other cancers, we need to talk about the palitative concern that we have with us is extremely bad. So they warn the associations that we only have one hospice, that everything else is left to personal care and actually to worry about the family, that there is no uniform procedure, that usually the family jumps in, and then when we have a situation that people are alone and that they don't have a family, then they ask the community for help and that thing more or less stops. There are some projects, some associations, some homes of health, but we have smaller places where there's practically nothing. If you don't have a family, then you're left really to the mercy of fate. It would only mean that it is good to warn and encourage lifestyle change, but we should also be aware that our lifestyle, the lifestyle of our people that you have warned here, means smoking, obesity, motion, etc., is also linked to the social structure associated with poverty, is a poor nation, poor countries have much more problems meaning with this alleged lifestyle that comes down to an individual level this easily again and says hello, people are invited to change their lifestyle. When we're here in the assembly, with our lifestyle, we may be able to listen to that kind of call, but Mrs. Merchants means consummated workers, I often can't accept that call, can I? They don't have the privilege of changing their lifestyle. That's it. In any case, of course, we welcome that we are dealing with this problem, we welcome that both days and months are declared, but above all what is very important is that we work on prevention, that it is done means monitoring the outcome of these diseases as well as any other diseases and that it is done to update the data or registers for this disease as well as other diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91299	Following individual debates, the first respected representative is Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we have already heard that colorectal cancer is the third most frequently diagnosed with cancer in men and the second most frequently diagnosed with cancer in women. If we look at overall trends at EU level, then we can talk about an increase in incidence and a reduction in mortality, but there are national and regional differences. Some 35,000 new cases are diagnosed in Europe each year. Today, we know enough about colorectal cancer to make sure that much of the cases can be prevented and that many others can be discovered early enough to enable the cure if effective prevention and early detection strategies are implemented. In this respect, a national preventive programme should be considered. We can't be satisfied with the current indicators, but I wouldn't say that now is as black as some have tried to present. I think that even in the time of the Covid epidemic, it happened for the first few months, when it was the first lockdown block of the case, but in June 2020 it was already trying to make up for those 500 collapses that were lagging behind. Of course, the better response leads to a greater need for certain diagnostic procedures, and this can be a certain burden. I would say that the unhealthy population has a serious impact on the economy of a country and this health literacy that is much better in some Western European countries, especially in Scandinavian countries, definitely contributes to better outcomes, early detection, better treatment. So when we talk about public health interventions, public health policies cannot be measured in the near future, but we need to talk about the long-term benefits of public health interventions. In these 30 years of Croatian independence, we have only had 2 national anti-smoking campaigns. When you start a serious national anti-smoking campaign, you can only see 10 years from now, which will have implications for morbidity and lung cancer mortality. The health of the population should be represented as human capital, which is the basis for a solid economy and for a happy population. Public health is subjective and long-term and it is important not only to focus on short-term economic costs in planning public health initiatives. Marking the Moon against colon cancer is an initiative that takes place in many European and world organisations, and in this context I see this contribution from the Ministry of Health to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a decision on the month of consciousness on colon cancer. Of course it is not enough and of course it is not enough once a year to come to the central squares of Croatian cities. We politicians like to paint there with representatives of associations and then do nothing. However, I would disagree that nothing is done in the field of epidemiology and chronic non-infectious diseases. A national strategic framework for the fight against cancer has been adopted. We expect an action plan for the period until 2025, and I believe that the justification for the COVID-19 epidemic and the coronal viral disease will have a growing and smaller significance and that this implementation of the national strategic framework will take place. We have, therefore, data where the incidence of colorectal cancer is estimated from a Member State to an EU Member State two to three times higher and we cannot actually be satisfied there. If we look at certain research initiatives by the European Commission and the EU in which more research has been done in recent years on prevention and early diagnosis, effective treatment of patients with identified and advanced disease can all contribute to the potential to reduce the burden of colorectal cancer at Europe level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91301	Time. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91302	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Cellic. I think this is a truly commendable decision by the government to announce March in the month against the fight against cancer. We heard a lot today. And the most important thing is that prevention. I think our way of life and the pace of life depends a lot today and on the way we eat. We can see there's a lot of cancer causes. So it's also a diet, a way of life, a variety of diseases, and among other things, they have as little impact as I've read because I've Googled chemicals, so I'm a little surprised to see that one of the causes of colon and chlorine cancer. And we all know that chlorine is very much used to purify our drinking water, so I'm interested in what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91303	Thank you. Dear colleague Dreven Buddinski, you have well indicated the problem of chemicals. So, most of the time, I'm talking about certain eating habits. When I talk about chlorine, it primarily refers to workers who work in water treatment plants. So they're a risk group like people who deal with color production at a higher risk of bladder cancer. It also means thank God there is no more, but we had in the territory of the Republic of Croatia a factory of asbestos and asbestos products which are also, so those workers who were in these plants were more likely to develop colorectal cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91304	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91305	Thank you. First, one little Semantic note from this profession of mine if you'll let me. You said that health is a human capital, a capital or a sum, or an amount that is the only goal of fertilization, so I hope you don't view people that way. It's not exactly a humanist perspective. All right. What I'm interested in in all of this means the process in some way you said yourself that it wasn't done enough. And now the doctors that I've talked to in my voice are saying that it would be very good to make disease registers, so that it would be good to make those outcomes. It means monitoring the outcomes of the disease. So you know exactly if this test is positive then you're leaving here. After that, we're missing that entire hologram somewhere, and then that organization is who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91306	Thank you. Dear fellow Peovic, I understand that notion of capital that you wanted to say, but as I work with people with a problem of addiction, then there are often talk about capital for recovery that can be personal, which can be social. So that notion of capital means not in that sense devalued man as such in a partnership with some capitalist thesis. As far as this register is concerned, we have a cancer register. And if you look at the conclusions of the Europacolon, so the amber of a roof organization that makes certain recommendations, so that's where you can see that we now have a national strategy, we expect an action plan. What we don't have, therefore, is what they recommend and I believe that this will happen soon, that the registers except for recording new diagnosis records and how these treatment outcomes are treated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91307	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91308	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, although we have received data that some colonoscopy has compensated, the fact is that the pandemic has led to a decline in the percentage of those who responded to preventive checks to the first degree because they are employees who are doing these screening programs on Saturdays free etc. have been engaged with regard to covid. So we'll see the consequences of all this. Now, I'm curious as to how you, as a psychiatrist, will find yourself able to embrace, or help our citizens, psychological help not only because of pandemics and earthquakes but also psychological help from malignancies that I said would be more than you might think. Do we have enough experts to provide psychological assistance, or how it will all be conducted together? Do we have a strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91309	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Maric, within the national strategic framework for the fight against cancer, there is one specific area regarding psychological support to provide psychological assistance, or psychological, psychosocial interventions. I think that in Croatia we are still at the level of some improvisations, at the level of some improvisations, at the level of initiatives by NGOs who do many times the part of the work that this institutional part should do, but I personally think that we have enough experts in the field of mental health. They're not just psychiatrists, so psychiatrists deal with certain mental disorders, so there's a whole series of people dealing with the sector. Assisting calls, so other than educated psychologists, there are social educators, there are educational rehabilitators, social policy masters working on mental health teams that should continue to empower in this multidisciplinary way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91310	The next replica of the respected representative Maja Grbe-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Celić, you and I, so here's colleague Marić and colleague Karlić, often during our lives, working part of life, we met with people who unfortunately die of malignant diseases, and are fighting for the last day, for the last hour, so how does it sound to you as a doctor and as a humanist sounds like our colleague from the end who doesn't think we should this day, this month where we would talk to everyone, where we would work to improve the care of any cancer... Well, this time, colon cancer, how does that sound to us doctors? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91312	Thank you. Do I want to respond first or do I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? ... Yeah. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, my esteemed colleagues, Grba-Bujevic, I didn't realize that my colleague Peovic said she shouldn't... No, yeah, then I apologize, so this one I don't believe that, if it were wrong to say that, I really don't see any valid reason to dispute the month of consciousness because it's one, one additional impulse, one additional initiative. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Those people who deal with these problems are every day, and they don't need a national day, and they don't need a month of fighting colon cancer, but the general population in that area, here I can say from my perspective, so when the month is fighting addiction from November 15th to December 15th thanks to the media, thanks to that, we're working on health enlightenment that has to be continued. So here is the goal of education, and I believe that this month of fighting and the month of raising awareness against colon cancer will meet its expectations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91313	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91314	238, well I wouldn't want to be anyone's lawyer, but I think my colleague Oreshkovic just said after she said the same thing, so we have days, days of this, we have months of that, but right away she said it means we should work on prevention, so no one is against it, I mean of course, that what everyone is for prevention, but that it's not all about painting, just photography, just talking about something but really doing some work and doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91315	This was more like a replica, so you get a warning. The following is an individual debate between the respected representative of Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91316	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, maybe I'm the last one who should be, I'm not a doctor, I'm nothing, but from that perspective, and I've had a chance to get home address, so that flyer, the National early detection program of colon cancer, and I can say that I'm surprised that what these guys are sending me right now, how they know that I might have something bad. And then, I had no idea about the project, and then I started and got intrigued, so I guess that's how the other guys who also got the address got into it, I went through those 50 years. And it's a good thing I was surprised because then, I said, well, I'm a little risky, I'm having some similar problems, and I'm like, "Oh, my God, that's what I thought, otherwise maybe somebody wouldn't make me go there because I think I'm okay." And by starting that, I've come to the point that I'm actually risky and I have some problems with ulcerative colitis that can cause colon cancer in the long run. And that's where I got caught in that net, so let's call it that, and I started going on a regular basis every two years, again this year I got that... I go to the regulars every 2 years. colonoscopyes, etc. And I took it very seriously, but from the day I got this flyer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, to say that it's just some pyrs, so of course painting in the squares etc., but this is a very good pyr as much as he thinks he's good, so let him save 5, 10, 50 lives he's very good. And so, this initiative is commendable and every initiative of this guy is causing a particular pyr, causing a certain marketing, now calling it marketing, so it might sound bad to someone who's sick is going to say now to my some kind of disease doing some piar, but it's going to save a lot of lives. So this flyer and the whole initiative to declare itself and that every year if we don't talk more about it once a couple of days a year at 3 months, more about it, more about it, encouraging others to get nervous, maybe let that crown go at last, and it says now again it's time to go back to some normal life and finally take care of it again, to take care of these very lenses and similar things that we get. And I as an ordinary citizen, so that's exactly what prompted me to think and to read a little deeper what it means, which I should, as I should, and then, among other things, ask the Secretary of State at the beginning of the replica, is said much more so the impact not only through the national programme, which is done in fact very well, so early detection already through other ministries and through other institutions begins to co-ordinate together on what is very important that doctors have said themselves, and that is exercise, the impact of eating habits. I think it's something that should be identical, quality and important to say as when it comes to a preventive programme that we said there are technical problems, and it would be better if it were a little different, but I think it's just as important because it was seen and seen that, besides smoking and alcohol, the impact of eating habits, they called this disease as much as I've seen and read the disease of Western life, the style of life, because we see that in some countries that are less developed than Europe and all of us and other countries, so what they're quite developed is less, less colon disease is found than in countries that are more advanced, more modern, so as we eat better and more quality, and in fact it turns out to be the other way. We eat unquality, we don't have body culture, exercise, and that's definitely the lifestyle that we do, maybe for those of us who think we know everything, we might be in a worse position somewhere where there's a less developed world and eat more vegetables than we do with red meat and all that stuff. So, healthy lifestyle, coordination of all the ministries of sport, of education, etc. and a large number of hours of body culture would be very welcome in secondary and elementary schools and kindergartens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91317	Two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Cappelli, we had the thematic session of the Health Committee on World Cancer Day, which was attended by the heads of clinics from regional centres, and then we saw, and we who are doing health care already know it, so KBC Rijeka and KBC Split, KBC Osijek, KBC Osijek, The tumour clinic, they have a chart for you where there really is no waiting for the moment when a person enters the system, so it is not going to move the ball from one yard to another but it is going. There are certain problems surely in some centers. Often we often look at those situations where the problem happened, and what happens routinely is ignored. And what's professor. Stanec said on the occasion of a visit to the tumour clinic, therefore, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the National Recovery and Resistance invests in restoring medical equipment for diagnostics and treatment it is not empty straw, it is not a theory but are concrete things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91319	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91320	Thank you very much fellow Cellic, I'm glad to hear it. I say as a person I purposely today wanted to discuss it a little bit and about declaring that day during the 3rd month, etc., just to intensify this knowledge that you just said, which I didn't bother to read or that you didn't say today maybe you wouldn't know anything about it. They don't even know other citizens who, superficially if they're healthy, don't ask if they care about a better system of exercise, so through schools through high school, elementary school, through kindergartens. In particular, there is a lot of talk about the quality of food especially in kindergartens, so we need to talk about it. We also have to talk about it, I would prefer to talk about health but not just through the crown and that we are tied hands, just that, but that much more talk about this prevention and everything that seems other than what you said when the disease occurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91321	The next replica, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91322	Comrade Cappelly, Ursula von der Leyen, president of the commission, said the following. A total of EUR 4 billion in the EU programme for health and other funding programmes has been approved for anti-cancer measures. Under the EU Health Programme in '21 Two calls have been issued a year that led to the creation of 16 new important initiatives. It was adopted, a recently adopted programme for '22. and it again contains a large number of anti-cancer measures, and this time particularly deals with prevention. That's our way. These funds need to be used, the ministry needs to make these calls, this country needs to make these calls to improve even more strongly and to ensure that as many of our fellow citizens survive these diseases between the other and the colon, but we also have others to take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91323	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91324	Well, the data is very important especially because of prevention and we need to be happy and happy that we are in this common EU family where we will be able to use exactly that kind of means. We could just dream of them if we were out of it, we wouldn't be in that program. It is therefore commendable that our government too will be involved in the use of these funds. It was fascinating to me when I saw the World Health Organization's data that the predicted growth of cancers in general would not just be colon cancer, since '18. So these years we can say the last 2-3 years from 18 million to 29.5 million cancer patients and also 9.5 million to 16 million people will die of cancer. That's terrible data. I think it's a good idea and that it's starting to really use again, I say these programs, and that's why, in any case, it's a big support for this declaration, so it's the 3rd month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91325	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91326	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters, Vice President, we will certainly support this initiative that is related to the declaration of the Moon of Fatal Cancer, but we have a problem we have seen from the material that is given to us, which is pointed out and in the debate that when we have too little response to that flyer who showed fellow Cappelli unfortunately now needs to see how people should now be stimulated not only for the colon cancer prevention program but also prostate cancer, breast cancer, breast cancer, breast cancer, etc. Because we could discuss this without further ado, although not specifically on this subject. Now the question is how do people motivate? As a rule, people are motivated by money, money. And the media, so from portals to paper newspapers in some situations like numbers, like data. If we find out too late and if we are not subject to prevention, that health care of the Republic of Croatia costs a certain amount. If everyone were to say or a good part, 80% of the citizens or 70% or 100% submit, and based on the statistics that we obviously have, if we were to discover early the amount of savings in the health system. Because then it goes in favor of all and citizens and in favour of the budget and, of course, easier to treat, we have less burden on the health system itself. So how do you do that? Does one who goes to preventative checks whether to release him from supplemental health insurance, give a prize through a bon that is let's say bon, so to forgive him a hundred kunas or 200 kuna income tax. It's kind of clean. So I'm not getting into any kind of sums, but through that part, so we could possibly think about how to free people. I don't speak monthly, I talk maybe a year, I don't know. Some kind of stimulation could exist, but it would have to monitor and save the health care that we achieve with a preventive program. Then we can eventually achieve something. But I don't see that we're going to get a better response differently, because people are usually demoted. Why are they demoted? They are demoted because they read the flyer and then from that flyer comes into our health system, and then our healthcare system says for example that for the first review you wait 100 days, for the checkup you wait 174 days. That's what it says on HZZO plates. Therefore, if the disease develops later in the meantime, that is what the problem is. I'm not medical, I speak exclusively as a consumer. So, who consummated health services. And then it's really demoting. So with the March announcement that was made during Bill Clinton, so Bill Clinton inaugurated March as a month of consciousness on colon cancer. After that, Europe took over. And this is already a few years now, the month of March of the month of consciousness of colon cancer, which is now being joined by Croatia. And that's good. But we have to go from the word of that declarative part to what we'd still have to do. So I believe that with what I have said, we as a Parliament should have one month which will be called a month of awareness of waiting lists in the Croatian health system. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91327	We have a replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91328	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you've made a lot of interesting thoughts. We've now come to the attention of the vaccination campaign that we've done a lot of sketching here. There have also been proposals on our part to be released for supplementary insurance, etc. That's all the government refused. And then here we see, among other things, how bad and the vaccination campaign is done, how people are poorly motivated. In fact, they were also demoted by these sour decisions of the government, the Staff, etc. As for the campaign itself to raise awareness that people are involved in these preventive programmes, I think it's very important to define clearly and to point out to our citizens that there will be a quality and clear way of the patient that I mentioned when I discussed on behalf of the club, where exactly so many days for diagnostics will be defined, for treatment. It means no patient wandering, no waiting list. So there's kind of a way to get patients then by the state and all of us in the system to clear the frames that will be quick to turn. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91329	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91330	Comrade Maric, I agree with you. I'm just saying that communication needs to be done more than what's being declared. Because then when I get an informative flyer, the moment I answer, I have to have some kind of preferential channel to provide me with that prevention. If we just say the colon is dying, go for a checkup, then when you get into the system, you see what that system looks like. Well, we all know what it looks like. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91331	And a final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91332	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I think we can all agree that it is very important to declare this month March, a month of awareness of colon cancer in Croatia not only because of this, but because of this precisely to make as many of our citizens aware of the importance of health. That is exactly the kind of health that we have and should in any way be preserved. More old people said that a man spent the first half of his life losing his health, and then that other half to bring him back again when it was, of course, much harder. And of course we need to be aware that in the Republic of Croatia after heart and blood vessels disease I think so and in the world cancer is another cause of mortality and thus one major public health problem. According to the 2019 Register of Cancer at the Croatian Institute of Public Health The number of newly diagnosed malignancies is 25300 and the deceased 13300. In people under 65 years of age, cancer is the most common cause of death with more than 40% of the deceased at that age and it is something that is very serious and worrying and why we need to raise awareness of this problem. How many people with cancer live in Croatia it is not known exactly, but it is estimated somewhere around 170 000 of our citizens, whether they have cured it, whether they do not know they still have cancer, but they will eventually get it somewhere. Fatal and end-infection cancer is one of the leading causes of mortality, about 700,000 cases worldwide annually, and about a million and 400,000 newly ill a year. It's something that's really important. In the Republic of Croatia, colon cancer is the second cause of death from malignant neoplasms, in men behind lung cancer, in women before breast cancer in 2019 and in the total number of newly ill cancer patients about 15% of men, 13% of women are suffering from colon cancer. Some 3,500 new patients are discovered annually, but over half of them have already been spread to surrounding and distant organs and, of course, there is far greater mortality. The most important thing in this case is preventive measures, progress in therapeutic diagnostic procedures, an increase in the quality of pre-operative treatment evaluation and a reduction in the improvement and mortality. Scientific research in which blood testing in the chair was conducted in a large number of inhabitants showed that it is possible to reduce mortality from colon cancer and of course help in faster healing. That is why it is also important to discover this national early detection program for the colon, but also for all other programs that are currently aimed at prevention, meaning to discover those at the initial stage of any actual form of malignant disease. This is why it is important that we talk about this problem as much as possible, to make our fellow citizens aware of how important their health is, and so I think that one of some small solutions would be some kind of health education in a primary school that would actually make a little more young people aware of the importance of health, the importance of a healthy lifestyle, the importance of eating, the importance of certain habits that should be solved or not taken in old age, and, in fact, to contribute all of them naturally to sports activities, recreational activities that will certainly preserve health and extend a healthier life. An old wise man said health and freedom are very similar. We only understand their value once we've lost them. We've fought our freedom 30 years ago, but now it's up to us to all fight together for our health, to keep it as much as possible, and only when we can't put ourselves in the hands of a doctor and a health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-09-0.u91333	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning, we will continue at 9.30 A report on the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Let's decide together" and a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "Enough of headquarters". The applicant is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Good night, everybody! The session was interrupted at 7:35 p.m.
