ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u102822	On behalf of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nadica Dreven Buddinski, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u102938	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the National Competitiveness Council was founded in February 2002 on the initiative of the business sector of the Croatian Association of Employers and Government of the Republic of Croatia in response to the challenges Croatia faced at the beginning of the 21st century. The challenges include the process of globalisation, economic transitions and strengthening the competitiveness of Croatia's private and public sectors, and each year issue a report. The Council is an independent advisory body composed of 24 members and 4 key stakeholders, business sector, government, union and academic community with the aim of creating dialogue, partnership and consensus on programmes and policies key to sustainable growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. The Institute for the Development of Business Management from Lozana, whose partner is the National Competitiveness Council, published the result of the 2021 Yearbook of World Competitiveness. Croatia was 59th among the 64 world economies in last year's report. During the last 5 years from 2017 to 2021, Croatia's position on the global competitiveness scale ranges between 59 and 61 places. Our position on the competitiveness scale has only only improved marginally, so we are still lagging behind us comparable countries, new EU members. However, events during the pandemics and expectations of a post-pandemic period supported by the new financial allocation of EU funds provide hope to speed up the necessary changes. The competitiveness scales of the Institute for the Development of Business Management also include 334 criteria of which 2/3 refer to statistical data and 1/3 to the research and opinions of the economic operators. A detailed insight into Croatia's position at 20 competitiveness indices suggests good positions in the field of international trade, price levels, health and the environment and education. The most favourable indicators in the opinion of the economy are the following, qualified workforce, reliable infrastructure, high level of education, access to funding and cost competitiveness. World Competitiveness Centre experts believe that a united Europe has shown its strength during the pandemic period. According to them, the good positions of leading economies are investment in innovation and the implementation of diverse economic activities and public policies. Prior to the pandemic, economies focused more effectively on those areas are dealing with economic implications of the crisis. As for Croatia, Croatia, as we have proven to be better at difficult situations, as Prime Minister Plenkovic pointed out when he referred to the 2022 Competitiveness Council Report, after which Croatia made significant progress, stressed that this is a confirmation of development in 9 years after EU membership and after a series of steps the government has made to prepare for EU entry. They were created, a better business climate was created, better, better governance at all levels, preventing money laundering, less administrative barriers and increasing engagement in the fight against corruption. As we know, the report indicates that Croatia has arrived from 59 places in 46 places. It must also be noted that Croatia faced not only the Covida-19 pandemic but also the earthquake in Zagreb, Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina and Krapina-Zagorje County, and the impact of the war between Ukraine and Russia which has a strong impact on the world economy and on the normal supply of goods and food. By causing inflation and the global crisis. In this way, we can see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is dealing with these challenges, challenges and problems extremely well, and we can still praise how we jumped 13 places on the competitiveness scale and that no one has grown so much in this year and that the direction Croatia is going, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is recognised, effective and we believe that the results in the coming years will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103030	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103031	Fellow MPs and MPs, some of you know that as soon as the news came to me that HDZ was calling for the opposition to the talks on amending the Constitution, I immediately told my colleagues that such a call by the HDZ should not be answered. Of course, my position comes first and foremost from the way I personally view HDZ and that I think about the foreign currency that terrorists are not to be negotiated. And for me, a state which, for 30 years, destroys a state that has, by its corruption affairs, offended us all to this extent, that we truly feel humiliated in our own country, which has been kidnapped, so such a party has nothing to negotiate with other political actors about the future of Croatia. So that's one reason. There are some procedural ones, for example, I don't like the situation where HDZ informally calls on the opposition to practically come to their rooms and hallways on their knees. Thirdly, I believe that we need to protect the institutions of the state, so if we already have a Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that has jurisdiction over these issues, for example, could be held institutionally there. But basically, the thing that bothered me the most was that only naive people could believe in the good, honest and noble intentions of HDZ. And now I'm not supposed to say that after only two weeks, three shows that I was right but I want to open up the question why did HDZ do it in the first place? What were his real intentions? Why would a political party leading the country in a more totalitarian way than the state was working during the communist era now suddenly edit one of the fundamental issues of democracy and civil rights? I am glad that the media have already answered that question, and they have interpreted that the HDZ actually wants to kill any referendum initiative that is not in line with their interests before it comes to it and in a way that will introduce a rule that the Constitutional Court will decide on the constitutionality of the referendum before the signatures are collected at all. That's the point. And now add to it, if anyone remembers an interview by Mr. Branko Bačić, who explained that they actually want to prevent such a spiritual, protective, from engaging this great energy, and that it is in vain. And that energy, the energy of the mass that's being organized on some issue of state regulation that goes counter to their rules, is afraid of it because it's aware that in such a situation it loses ground under its feet, loses power, loses its next choice. Some idea to bring citizens together on issues that are important to the citizens of HDZ, which currently holds the state in a hostage crisis situation with only 16.4% of the votes of the entire electoral body, is a dangerous idea for them because it is not necessary to forget the collection of signatures that implies some kind of previous campaign, a situation in which a matter is publicly problemed. People really get involved, and then through this referendum, some ideas, some of the articulated views of some political actors and other political parties are given support. Sometimes this public-organised pressure is much more powerful than the referendum itself. And it should not be forgotten that we had referendum initiatives that actually achieved their goals without the referendums themselves being held. That's what HDZ's afraid of. He's afraid of the citizens, afraid of democracy, afraid of losing his power. And so I actually want to tell the citizens now that this all points to the conclusion that HDZ is weak and is aware of it. And this is a sign that by engaging citizens, their involvement in political and other social processes, and especially by going to the HDZ elections, the authorities can finally end once and for all. From the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103032	Thank you very much, I would only ask you to use different terms in the future, no political party should compare with terrorists, I did not give you a warning because this is a statement of view, however a completely inappropriate dictionary, a completely inappropriate dictionary. Here you are on behalf of the position, the Social Democrats Club will be spoken by respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103099	I thank the esteemed vice president of this high house. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I would like to talk again about the problems that silence our citizens in the Republic of Croatia, the problems that we are all aware of, which they warn and ask for help with the same citizens through all the media that are available to us. I'll talk primarily about the situation in agriculture. About how the Republic of Croatia doesn't have its resources, and let's not forget the two basic resources we have, that's land and that's people. And when we look at the Republic of Croatia in its fullness, then we'll say it's a country with a relatively small population density, but a country with great resources, with great potentials from our Slavonia to the islands where we can actually produce special, especially valuable cultures. And then this morning, when I come to work here, I listen to the radio and I hear our pensioners pick up and say they don't know how they're going to survive this month because day after day prices are going up. They no longer go to the markets, they no longer buy fresh vegetables, fruits and groceries, they are unfortunately dear colleagues and colleagues supplying on actions, supplying at various actions and in various outlets of food stores. This happens in Croatia of the 21st century at the moment when our fields and our agricultural land grow in weeds, at the moment when the state still writes regulations that should be made available to the full by the unsuspecting state agricultural land, at the moment when the seed is before us and when the question arises which price our farmers will reach in that seed. Whether we will be worth producing wheat, barley, corn or any other culture that is certainly quality in the Republic of Croatia and sell relatively cheaply, and then import frozen bread from distant countries or similar products, thereby disrupting the quality of the offer in the Republic of Croatia. In those moments, our government has no answer. Our government did not go into intervention for farmers and did not find a model by which everything currently abandoned in the Republic of Croatia would become operational. We know what the situation is in agriculture and it hasn't been since yesterday, it's gotta be like that in the last 30 years. But this was the moment when Croatia should have seen the opportunity, in which Croatia should see an opportunity to do something quality and to allow only 28% of farmers in the Republic of Croatia who have the conditions to grow into large producers, those who will be unburdened and who will have the knowledge and quality to provide them with, to ensure their future in Croatia. So we are still appealing, still seeking and asking for urgent, urgent measures from this moment on to be made available to our farmers, the OPGs and all those small producers to put all land and all resources into operation. The question is, what's going to happen to our Petrochemy? The question arises why can't blue diesel fall at the price of six kunas? The question arises why measures can be taken in other EU countries and the situation for better agricultural production and why can't it be done in the Republic of Croatia? And just in the end, let's not forget. Under the influence of our agricultural producers, they are the most valuable food cultures in the EU. This particular organic production that we recognize is what we need to build on the future of agricultural production, not as we have pointed out 100 times on imported frozen bread from China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103100	Thank you very much. We'd like to finish with today's work. The session will continue on Wednesday, June 29th at 9:30 p.m., with representatives' club positions, and the debate plan will be delivered next week. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.05 p.m. And as announced at the beginning of today's session, the meetings are now going to be held on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will be spoken by respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103181	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner with a co-worker, respected colleagues, colleagues, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Medzlis of the Islamic Community of Rijeka, I have a report showing an electricity bill for May 30,000 kuna. By May we have an account of about 10,000 kuna. The same is the experience of our Clarissus in Zagreb and the same horror of popular cuisine in Zagreb, people who feed the homeless the poorest of our citizens, and the same horror happens to entrepreneurs. Serious countries like Austria are listening to yesterday's news organized projects, aid packages for several billion-euro entrepreneurs with a projection for the next 4 years. We also heard Germany during only these three summer months organised the use of public transport for 9 euros, so the price that is truly symbolic is part of their measures to reduce fuel consumption because of this war we have in Ukraine. Okay, that wouldn't mean a lot to us because we bicycled if we left Rijeka, and we're a little better athletes, we get there faster than the River-Zagreb train, but we have, we have another public transport. The gas flow from Russia was halved, in the United States we read a corrupt LNG facility, the third pipeline passing through Poland is therefore completely blocked, the Poles do not want to pay with laundry anything, and the two pipelines they Ukrainian and German therefore work with reduced capacity up to 40%. Governments out there are already calling for citizens to save energy. And we, we're going into a crisis, in this crisis that we're in, and we're going into a crisis, we're definitely going to health reform, but like some modern superhic. We take the poor to give to the rich. The worst minister in the history of the Croatian state, Mr Beros, announces the growth of maximum participations, the cutting of sick and drug lists. Great team. Have them order free a couple of million more vaccines and throw them away in six months, while our endangered patients are waiting for a few months. Sir... I'm sorry, Mr. Beroš is dealing with mandatory systematic checks and new vaccines for some new variants that come to us in the fall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Banovina is still standing, there are no projections, and Jadranka's defender in Glina is still waiting for her house to be restored, sleeping in a container. On Wednesday, the State Statistics Institute published inflation data 11% of the largest in the history of the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly worrying is that the main carriers of inflation are transport, food, housing costs. Those goods and services that are needed literally every person, every family in the Republic of Croatia. All these gatherings, the fall of standards, have nothing to do with the war in Ukraine, or the most to do with the lockdown or the project of pauperisation, the poverty of citizens, so that later on, what I know may be easier to manipulate. And lockdown played that key role, general economic shut-down, all social events. Now listen for a virus that has a total mortality of 0.07%. That's exactly what the data is, and 0.2% if you're infected. Because of such a virus, the economy has been destroyed, the business has been disabled, the culture has fallen, sports and generations of athletes have been destroyed, education has deteriorated dramatically, the nation's health has grown worse, and now the World Health Organization says that only in the first year of the pandemic 25% has grown depression and anxiety. How much does that cost the state? How much does one company cost? I also want to put an emphasis on our families here. Croatia as a nation made up of every Croatian citizen is in a situation that we must quickly bring a strategy for the development of Croatian families. Without family, many families will not be our society. And so here we must, here I appeal again to the ruling to do everything we can to protect our families. Cancel tax on first real estate, reduce labour tax, introduce a single child's allowance for all families and seriously consider indexing pensions. To be plastic, if food has increased by 20% and pensions have to grow by 20%. It is unacceptable for our pensioners to see how that month ends, whether they have something to eat for next month, next month. So, if the price of food rises, they must grow and retire. And it's the state that needs to take care of old and powerless people, for people when they retire. Who else is going to worry? And for the rest of their lives, they've been making and filling their budgets. So do what you can about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103255	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative William Matula will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103256	Thank you, Vice President. On June 12th, colleagues and colleagues completed another call for a public debate but indeed a farce, a simulation of the public debate over the adoption of a new contract between Croatian Radio Television and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a contract that should apply from 1 January '23. until 31 December '27. In the law to which they are called, the law that everyone criticises about HRT, which is the most ridiculous, is said among other things, that the contract must be signed by 1.10 in order to take place on 1 January. However, this public debate, in the law, is intended to organise round tables, representations, internal communications and the like, none of which we have seen only in the last week of June 6th, the HRT organised a stands and on that stands mainly HRT, the editor's office responded to what the associations had set up and that a lot of people gathered there. However, if you had previously wanted to find something about this public debate, journalists were really making up a number of jokes about it, they called a self-secret public debate on the contract. Because on HRT sites, on websites but really even the people of the HRT Supervisory Board, employees who are in this should be ordinary in no way you if you were not well-versed and up to one point until the portals really pulled it out of the links and started sharing only in the last week you could find out about this public debate at all. What this contract is about is the percentages and minutes that are drastically reduced for both the information programme and the drama programme. I don't want to talk about the importance and importance of the Croatian Radio Drama Programme right now, but the only thing I have to say is that from 7% of representation to 3 frequencies in the present contract now reduced it to only 4% and mostly as much as it seems on the 3 Croatian Radio Programme, but it's such an important thing and a big problem, and I would say really that shame. That's what my colleague Raukar Gamulin will talk about in a special speech. Afterwards, the Croatian Journalist Society, after that hearing, made its roundtable in the Press House, since the real public debate was lagging behind, and there they are, as Miss Shimonović Einwalter's attorney-general was present on the stands, but here she also said that it was not enough. First of all, she said what she said in her report on human rights in '21. It warned that national minorities' representation in public media remains one of the areas where minority rights are weakest and where it states that the government should insist in negotiations on a new contract with the HRT on the establishment of a special minority redistribution. The same was said by the representative, the lawyer’s representative, or the deputy lawyer for disabled persons, who pointed out that there are as many as 600,000 people in Croatia with a certain type of disability and all of them need quality and tailored information and media content. And now I want to say what else is said by Maya North to whom I congratulate her on becoming President of the European Federation of Journalists. She said this contract is one document not to say copyist of one part of the law from an old contract with the government Well, it certainly has to be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's all about this contract still being discussed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103257	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103350	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues Croatia is a small country of great athletes and great sports success. Compared to the number of inhabitants, we are far above the European and global average as regards success in sports. And today athletes are as well as they used to be during the Homeland War the best ambassadors of Croatia. Namely, I mentioned Croatia whether it is in South America, whether it is in Africa, Australia, North America or here in Europe, the citizens will immediately mention one of the Croatian athletes. Today it is Luka Modric, Marin Cilic, who used to be Janica Kostelic, Goran Ivanišević or Davor Šuker. However, Croatian sport is all but not arranged. Especially so-called. smaller sports where Croatian talented athletes are truly left to themselves and would never have achieved even about those successes if they had not been given up daily and primarily their families. Let's just remember the Kostelic family how many nights they had to sleep in cars while practicing at numerous ski sites across Austria, how much they spent their own money. Let us remember the Vlasic family how much her father really had to give up so that her daughter could have significant sports successes. Unfortunately, some athletes such as Vukovar Mirna Jukic have left Croatia and performed under some other flags, in this case Austria, because of the lack of understanding of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the parent union. Today, the World Weightlifting Championship for cadets is being held in Mexico, where Nikola Todorovic is also a member of the Vukovar Lift Club. He won four seats a few days ago. She's never lost a pound of bronze. Unfortunately, this great success, Nikola, shows the situation in Croatian in sports. I mean, Nikola went to Mexico alone. Just along with the team's menu. There was a girl from around the river who also competed with them. The reason is that the parent union and the Croatian Olympic Committee failed to find the means to pay for both their coaches or not to give God doctors, physiotherapists, etc. If Nikola had a coach from Vukovar with him, he might have brought home some medals. However, there is no doubt that everyone will begin to praise each other very quickly for his great success. Among them will be many who have done absolutely nothing for Nikola and him alike. How rotten and messy everything is also the data that only 5 competitors travel to the almost EU championship in Spain in which younger cadets, cadets and juniors are competing, and not 6 how many teams do. The reason there's no money for that again. It also noted that there was yet to be another contestant from Vukovar at the World Cup, but there was no money for it either. Finally, the question arises whether the Croatian Olympic Committee and the travel and stay funds in Mexico were so large that they could not provide them or were simply incompetent? After all, never like him any honour, and a great minus for both the parent union and the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103351	Thank you. How Croatia slowly but irrevocably loses its sovereignty. On the one hand, the citizens of our beautiful world go to the white world while on the other hand, companies in Croatia fail after each other. A painful blow Croatia suffered from the breakdown of Agrokor although it was reluctant to talk about it, although what happened to Agrokor in our government is a huge success because Agrokor was allegedly saved and transformed into Fortenovo. The fact is, however, that it is the most valuable in the concert that has been disbursed and sold out for small money. What's left of Croatia has no excessive connection because most of the former empire are held by Russian and Hungarian entrepreneurs, bankers and any other aspect of the funds that are causing this case to be withdrawn by courts. I must mention here that the state of Croatia has used strong resources to help Todorovic create his empire and the Agrokor Group itself. The rounding of land and leaving this concert at extremely low prices tolerating non-payments anyway embarrassingly low amounts of leases, favouring concerts over small OPGs, enabling favourable loans with embarrassing guarantee values, including false financial reports are just some of the benefits. Along with the story of Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic, in the second plan, there was a story about a cultural Dalmatian retail chain, Studenac, which, with a total income of 2.3 billion kuna, was owned by Croatian investors. The student was recently sold to the Polish Investment Fund Enterprise Investors, and the addressed testifys that it is literally all ahead of you and that their goals are practically impossible to define. The aforementioned Polish investment fund in the process is the purchase of the Kutin trade chain Lonia, which is still owned by Croatian capital and generates revenues of around 800 million kuna. Recently, Studenac took over the Kordun trade chain from Slunj, which operates in 9 stores in the carlovic area and employs more than 50 people. In November, they explained that the takeover of the continued growth that the company has achieved in recent years was mentioned. Part of this continuity is also the acquisition of the Dubrovnik chain Pemo, which strengthened Studenac's position with the largest number of shops because there are nearly 750 of them across the country. They employ about 4,000 workers. But that's not what they intend to stop at. After the takeover, Lonia will have more than 1,000 shops all over the country, although it is mostly small neighborhood shops and supermarkets, in any case, the Konzum, which has 608 shops, including larger supermarkets and hypermarkets, which also operate throughout the country. The private Enterprise Fund run by Enterprise Investors in Croatia is also the owner of Pan-pek, and they have taken over the Intersport from Todorov in their own time. Through the company in the Czech Republic are the owners of Radenska and mineral waters of Studenac, and they also operate through the Zadar Sonik market. They also took over the Istria supermarkets and the Bura biocity chain. Kutinska Lonia manages a network of about 300 food shops and 8 wholesale centers through the company Lonia Shop. A few years ago, they took over the Đurđevacka Sloga with 70 stores, and they are also present in the Zagreb and Zagreb County areas in Sisak, Belarusian but also in Slavonia, Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevci County, and thanks to them Studenac takes over market positions throughout Croatia. When it comes to funds, a similar fate could soon be reached by the Split trade chain, owned by Split's Mayor Mamic, who allegedly entered sales negotiations with the CVC Partners from Luxembourg. Otherwise, Tommy 6 is the largest retail chain in our country, and also the leader in the region of Dalmatia. In any case, retail is expecting a series of mergers and acquisitions that are increasingly interested in foreign funds where there has never been any more money. This is how Croatia is poor from day to day, and foreign capital takes over all important resources and thus weakens our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103448	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, inspired by the initiative of the head of Zagreb's SDP, to put Joseph Broz's name in the centre of the City of Zagreb or return it there twice, I spoke of the character and work of Joseph Broz and promised to speak of him as a military leader this time. However, I'm still going to stay a little longer at this two-probation because I think it's particularly important to talk about the character, to deal with fans in this assembly. Whether it came from either the right and the left, you realize that in politics it's thinking, not cheering. In politics, you should think so, even if he's wrong, then I should recapitulate what it is. As far as his work is concerned, the work is very simple, the work of Joseph Broz Tito is Yugoslavia, communism and non-classified. Yugoslavia, Communism and non-classified. Where is Yugoslavia and communism? Shintar broom at the dump ended up. You know what a shintar broom is? And where are they inconsistencies? They buzz like flies without a head in the sense of their existence. The greatest political loser in the history of these areas is Joseph Broz Tito. I repeat the second time the biggest political loser. Where are his deeds? They're gone. What about his character? This black character because of this document, Rudolph Ruml, an American historian, lectured on 3, 4, 5, the most significant universities, made a list after a serious investigation, a list of working criminals where Broz took a prominent 9th place. The first is Stalin, the second is Mao Ce-tung, etc., only the third is Hitler. Broz takes 9th place, there is neither Draža Mihaljevic nor Ante Pavelic, but I do not intend to compare them with each other. Is he black just because his army killed 10 times more captured and disarmed people than she killed them in war operations? Is he black because some say that after Kadan and Tatar no one has ever committed such monstrous crimes in this space as he has. He's the blackest thing for me, you know why? He's the blackest thing for me to do in the Soviet Union when he goes there in '35. For years, and when it is made available to the secret Soviet service that everything that needs to be done, my colleagues said the last time and I repeat, Stalin said kill around you so that they don't kill you, turn around so that they don't bow down on you. They had to kill people, liquidate false accusations. That kind of throckism, and some kind of separatism, etc., those were such stupid accusations. 600 Yugoslavian to death went on Broz's charge. There is Pero Simic, a Bosnian Serb, a Belgrade journalist who entered the archives and found everything together. 6 Broz's predecessors, 6 KPJ secretaries from the first Filip Filipovic from that Gorkic who sent Broz there, from Antun Mavrak, who took Broz to his apartment when he was expelled from Bjelovar. That monster accused everyone of being shot for him. Did I tell you, did I tell you that '53? When Stalin dies, all those unfortunate men that Broz killed are rehabilitated in Moscow. However, Belgrade is silent. Which is gonna be one day when this loser SDP-supported I don't even know who he's putting Broza down from, and on the other hand, he comes up with this list that he's a 9 criminal, and on the next side comes 600 people who were killed thanks to his false accusations. As for him as a leader, I'll say a few words. I'll say it especially because of Eddie from Pula who says he finds it very interesting to talk, but he's not clear what I said about his attempt in Istria. So, what happened in Istria? 9.9. when it capitulates in '43, when it capitulates Italy and Pavelic and Broz something that connects, they return space to Croatia. Pavelic, as he stands and stands well, but Broz founded the National Liberation Committees, after which the military forces went to war without making sure that he had Rommel's veterans against him because when Italy retired, the Germans possessed those premises and the repression was such that 2.5 thousand Italians, God forgive me, that 2.5 thousand Istria were killed, and about 20,000 were injured because of his madness. And Istra was released in '45. The year is because Pazin was released on May 7th, etc. It's the same crazy thing as a warlord working on the Sutjesca. I don't have time, but it doesn't matter. On Sutjesca, he has against him the first mountainous German strongest division, he goes into a breakthrough so where they are No intelligence... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103450	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103578	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, June 5, 2021. A 13-year-old boy lost his life after consumption of energy drinks. The public was appalled, pediatricians, nutritionists said they were harmful to children, and Minister Beros was drilling his chest saying that he and HDZ were banning the sale of these drinks to children and that they launched a legal procedure. It's been a year, but no draft law from the Resort Ministry has come to the assembly, and children continue to compete with potions that harm them in a number of ways. We have given Minister Berosch time to fulfill his promise to protect the children, but it is obvious that this is not his priority. Therefore, on 14 June this year, the SDP Representatives' Club sent a proposal for a bill or amendment to the Trade Act prohibiting the sale of energy drinks to children. The basic issues covered by this law relate to the ban on selling energy drinks to persons under 18 years of age and the placing of energy drinks in the same or the same mode of trade as alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, the jurisdiction of inspectors and fines for responsible legal and natural persons shall be extended if they act contrary to the law. We suggested four articles, very simple, and we hope it will be accepted. It'll be another SDP attempt to do it. As you know, the SDP proposed a bill in its 2018 assembly that would prohibit minors from buying energy drinks as a model for other European countries. The proposal was backed by a complete opposition, even some HDZ deputies, but then Minister Kujundzic flatly rejected it. First, he claimed that the EU would not allow it, which is nonsense because Lithuania and Latvia already had such a law. After our EU representative Biljana Borzan received a positive interpretation of the European Commission and disclosed the ministry's argument, the government said it would not support the law but would go to raising taxes on the sale of energy drinks in order to be made available as little as possible. In addition, their argument was that the consumption of these drinks among children in Croatia has not been sufficiently investigated. That's why we made the effort to get the relevant information. A very useful study with regard to children and energy drinks has been done recently at the Parochial-Industry School for a sample of 271 students, and this way we also thank Professor Elvira Lučić and the co-workers who conducted the research. On the question of whether the condition of buying a certain energy drink was its price 69% of the students replied that they did not already buy what they loved. So the tax introduced a few years ago to discourage consumption doesn't touch them too much. Huge 96% of students consumed energy drinks although 86% knew they were unhealthy. If there was a doubt about how widespread drinking among children is, she is gone. The younger the organism is, the more risky it is to consume energy drinks, so the data that even 70% of the students started to consume them even at primary school is very worrying. According to the survey, 8% of students drink energy drinks once a day, 5% more times a day, and 9% said they drink often. The information that may be the most ringing alarm is that the large 61% of the students consumed energy drinks with alcohol. If Minister Beros wonders if the citizens of Croatia would support such a move, we have the answer. According to a public change study commissioned by MP Borzan on a sample of 805 respondents, it was one question whether children should be banned from buying and eating energy drinks, as many as 88% of Croatian citizens support such a move. So children in Croatia start drinking energy drinks at primary school, often drink them in large quantities even though they know they are unhealthy. 2/3 of them mix with alcohol, and a special tax on energy drinks does not deter them from consumption. In addition, almost 9 to 10 Croatian citizens believe that children should not buy and consume energy drinks. If it wasn't crystal clear by now how the law should limit children to buying energy drinks, I don't think there should be any doubt after this data. We will see how he reacts by ruling, whether he chooses to protect the health of children and young or foreign commercial interests. It is very clear that we are struggling with the problem of obesity not only in adulthood, but also in childhood. Unfortunately, the fifth in the EU, by number or percentage, has threatened children. Among other things, there is a major role in the consumption of sugar, the consumption of energy drinks containing high levels of sugar, and other than that of energy drinks. High blood pressure, heart attack, arrhythmia, headache, migraines, nausea, vomiting, cramps, panic, anxiety, stress, diabetes, addiction, allergies, insomnia, risky behaviour. So these are some of the consequences of excessive consumption of energy drinks. The less the body’s body weight is, the more likely it is to happen. So, the children are particularly threatened. We appeal to Minister Beros, to the government, to the Resolute Ministry to accept this bill and finally protect the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103704	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the honourable representatives of Katarina Nemet will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u103705	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, there is a Regulation on simple and other buildings and works directed by the Ministry of Physical Planning, Construction and State Property from 7 to 22 June this year. Article 1 of that Regulation adds in one part, and I shall quote to you, with the exception of paragraph 2 of this Article, electronic communications infrastructure and related equipment, control stations with a control measurement system of passive antennas intended for the protection and control of the RS radio spectrum, including a set of concepts from specific rules in the field of electronic communications, may be built against a spatial plan, within the spatial planning corridors of infrastructure structures and within building particles of existing infrastructure structures. Which means that electronic communications infrastructure can be built anywhere, and for those who do not know what that means, I will explain it. Electronic communication infrastructures are cable sewers as well as antenna pillars, antenna reception, buildings and other related buildings, and all specified by the Electronic Communications Act. It is not clear the intensity of the introduction of such a new provision when it is not in accordance with the Law on Construction, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Electronic Communications. To recap the provision is against as many as three laws. Smart enough. The recommendation of the European Parliament resolution requires that mobile phone operators' base stations be set in a way to limit the exposure of the population to harmful emissions of the electromagnetic field, especially infants, children and young people in the adolescent and reproductive age, thus achieving better protection of the population. It is an amazing fact that, on the one hand, one ministry in this case, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure undertakes units of local self-government that in its spatial arrangements, electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment must necessarily plan, and I stress that they must make sure that they meet the requirements of protection of human health, space protection and environmental protection, with the necessary prior opinion of HACOM. And that is where we return to the EU recommendation that I have cited earlier. While the second ministry, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property points to a public debate of the above-mentioned regulation with an amendment, it can be built against a spatial plan within the spatial planning corridors of infrastructure buildings and within building particles of existing infrastructure buildings. This way I call on Minister Paladin and Minister Butkovic not to allow such a provision to be passed because I repeat, if units of local self-government respect all the legal provisions in their spatial planning, the EU's recommendations and the positive regulations aimed at protecting citizens' health as only right, then why is the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction trying to bypass this rule. I really want to believe that our citizens' health comes first and I urge them to prove it by eradicating the disputed provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116002	Honorable MPs and MPs good morning. In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with 12 new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure, at the points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda, it was not established that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 11th session. Before we start with today's first point, I'll just let you know that when we're done with this point there will be free speeches. So we're not gonna wait until 13 o'clock, but when it's over. So, first point: - Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2020 is submitted by the Government on the basis of Article 10. Law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Before I give my word to the promoters, I can see that we have requests for a break, so first they'll explain the rest of my colleague Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116003	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, we would like to request a break of 10 minutes to further consult as the MOST Club on this report, as we will discuss here today some money, which is funded by Croatians living abroad and certain institutions that we also finance from the budget. What is mentioned in the document itself is that it is made in accordance with certain strategies, and we as the Most Club are not clear what these strategies wanted to achieve because the strategy is just a path towards the goal. When we talk about these strategies we will welcome, let's say that the Croatian state finances countries such as Turkmenistan and Mongolia, we have no problem with this, but we do not understand what this is about to achieve. While on the other hand we have Croats in, who live in Latin America where we welcome, let's say, given certain, certain resources that I hope, I hope the Secretary of State will also touch for cultural societies, for CUDs, for certain fairs that are being held. However, the real strategy would be to really establish contact with Croatians living in Latin America, and the right to the fact that the Ministry of Education has become just one professor who currently lives in Argentina, who has our children with papers and housekeepers and all learn Croatian language. Chile as a country where we are not only present but we brand in Chile there is not a single professor who teaches the Croatian language of our people who plead as Croats. If I don't talk about the electoral system where people living in Paraguay, they're making fun of, in northern Argentina, they have to go 2,000 miles to vote. Imagine some Croats living there in Malmeau or Copenhagen or somewhere up in northern Europe have to come to Zagreb So we can vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116004	The apartment is approved. My colleague Glavasevic, please choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116005	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to consult first and foremost on the meaning of the discussion of the 2-year-old report. My colleagues and colleagues, in this session, we have a very serious problem with reports that are late for years because these reports are submitted for a reason. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are submitted to discuss, as their representatives, the resources that are, in this particular case, development aid. So these are our taxpayers' money, and we need to see what we've achieved with them. If we are two years later, I think as the first report entered the parliamentary procedure in 19.8.2021, we are almost discussing it now. That doesn't make sense. That really doesn't make sense. I mean, we're gonna do it, and we're gonna seriously discuss it. I doubt there's much room in this debate about populism, but colleagues and colleagues really look at today. We could have had more points to discuss today. There are many opportunities in which we can discuss a report that is late for a very long time. And here I am, our club's been warning about it for a long time. I believe that here, too, we are also calling on the ruling majority to seriously consider maybe all these reports are being put in one place somewhere and that we are actually making some effort to solve these backlogs because the point of the debate on these things is really getting lost if two or three years go by. They submit annually for a certain reason, and we would have to make up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116006	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to consult first and foremost on the meaning of the discussion of the 2-year-old report. My colleagues and colleagues, in this session, we have a very serious problem with reports that are late for years because these reports are submitted for a reason. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are submitted to discuss, as their representatives, the resources that are, in this particular case, development aid. So these are our taxpayers' money, and we need to see what we've achieved with them. If we are two years later, I think as the first report entered the parliamentary procedure in 19.8.2021, we are almost discussing it now. That doesn't make sense. That really doesn't make sense. I mean, we're gonna do it, and we're gonna seriously discuss it. I doubt there's much room in this debate about populism, but colleagues and colleagues really look at today. We could have had more points to discuss today. There are many opportunities in which we can discuss a report that is late for a very long time. And here I am, our club's been warning about it for a long time. I believe that here, too, we are also calling on the ruling majority to seriously consider maybe all these reports are being put in one place somewhere and that we are actually making some effort to solve these backlogs because the point of the debate on these things is really getting lost if two or three years go by. They submit annually for a certain reason, and we would have to make up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116007	Article 238, President of the Croatian Parliament, you know I'm not very much involved in these injuries. I don't know if I've raised 3 of them in these two years, but I'm curious if you can explain it to me, I know that now you've mentioned Spain and that you've been there with the delegation of the Croatian Parliament, and I know that my colleague Troscott is the chairman of the board, so the friendship of the Assembly of our Republic and Spain, so why hasn't he been invited as chairman of that committee to go with you to Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116008	So it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and it's my right to determine the members of the delegation who go to a country with me, but here was a specific situation. So it was a Croatian-Spanish parliamentary day. It's a new form we've never had before, we've had thematic sessions together with a colleague from the Spanish Parliament. So, one was a meeting of two presidents, and then we had four panels about tourism, about foreign policy, about the situation in the neighbourhood of Croatia and Spain, and what was fourth, Ukraine I think, something like that. So there were thematic sessions and the delegation was formed that way. And I'll take care of my colleague Troscott, and I'll take care of all of you, and I'll call all of you whenever these visits are here and mostly the representatives of the friendship groups are in meetings. Thank you very much. Are there any more interested in taking a break? If not, we'll continue at 9:00 and 50 minutes. It's 9:00.39. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Zdenko Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116010	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, allow me to present the report on the implementation of the Official Development Republic for 2020. The report was prepared in accordance with the Law on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid to Foreign Affairs. The report before you today gives a statistical, narrative and table review of the programmes achieved and the official development assistance projects prepared by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs according to the data received from the body of the state administration and public institutions. The implementation of official development assistance programmes and projects has been reported and reported by 10 ministries, 2 central state offices, 5 counties, CNB, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, State Hydrometeorological Institute and National Foundation for Civil Society Development. In total, the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 516 million kuna in 2020. Compared to previous 2019, the separation year increased by 7.5%. This continued the trend of increasing the overall annual allocation of the Republic of Croatia to implement development and humanitarian projects abroad. For the most part, official development aid was implemented by multilateral means to international organisations, with a total of just over 394 million kuna. The most significant amounts represent payments to international organisations and funds. We stress a mandatory contribution from the Republic of Croatia to the general EU budget of just over 269 million kuna and 52% respectively, and a mandatory contribution to the European Development Fund, which is slightly more than 74 million kuna. The Fund aims to help the poorest countries of the world by investing in capital multi-annual projects. The Republic of Croatia shall participate with its annual contributions to this Fund from July 2017. On the plan to fight disease, Covid-19, the Republic of Croatia has allocated 7.4 million kuna as financial support to the newly established UN fund for the global fight against Covid-19 disease and the World Health Organisation. In 2020, the Republic of Croatia allocated 122 million kuna to bilateral programmes and official development aid projects. The Republic of Albania implemented the largest individual bilateral project agreed in 2020 in co-operation with the UNDP. It is a humanitarian reconstruction project in an earthquake of 7.5 million kuna destroyed elementary school. The majority of bilateral development and humanitarian aid in 2020 was targeted alongside the BiH programme state. The Republic of Croatia strongly supports BiH's development and stability as well as its path towards the EU. This contributes to strengthening standards in all areas of the interest of BiH and all its citizens, including members of the constituent Croatian people. We remind you that the preservation of the Croatian language, culture and identity of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and especially in BiH, is our constitutional obligation. During 2020, 215 projects aimed at strengthening and promoting the dignity of every human person, peace, security and development of democratic institutions, economies and cultures were implemented in BiH. According to the number of projects implemented, BiH is firstly granted bilateral official development aid with a total of just over 81 million kunas. Despite the dominant investments in the development projects of the Republic of Croatia in 2020, the biggest progress has been made in the financing of humanitarian aid for the emerging pandemic Covid-10 has required greater focus of the Republic of Croatia on increased humanitarian needs in the immediate environment and globally. A total of €82.24 million has been allocated to humanitarian projects, which is 3 times higher than 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by strengthening Croatian official assistance, we directly influence the strengthening of national capacities and the presence of Croatian implementation partners in the world by protecting and promoting Croatian foreign and economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116011	Stay here State Secretary we go with, we have 14 replicas. The first one is a colleague of Ban Vlahek's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116012	You were quick. Thank you. I consider development cooperation and development assistance an extremely important component of foreign policy. What I'm curious about is whether we have any control over the allocations and whether they're being spent on purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116013	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116014	So certainly the institutions implementing this development aid control the implementation itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116015	Here you go, Comrade Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116016	The National Strategy for the period 2017 to 2021 sets out sectoral and geographical priorities for the implementation of international development cooperation based on the strategic objectives of foreign policy. The EU stands out 0.7% of gross national income by 2030, but the countries that became members in 2004 and Croatia stand out 0.33% of GNI by 2030. The Republic of Croatia has shown great readiness for the necessary humanitarian action and solidarity in helping other countries as well as Croats in other countries. In view of inflation, the large increase in commodity prices or the lower value of money as you see or interpret official development aid in such a large inflation And how much will we be able to get out of our GDP? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How much will our help be? [[Thank you, colleague Kirin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116017	Comrade Kirin, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116018	Thank you. Of course, official development aid is implemented according to certain priorities. The geographical priorities really are, in fact, the meaning of Southeast Europe, our country, the countries in our immediate environment of BiH, Serbia, the further eastern and southern neighbourhood and the third geographical priority, the developing countries. The amount of aid will, of course, depend on the financial resources available. You know that now there are special circumstances in Croatia and in the world in terms of cost-of-life growth, inflation so that all of this and other factors will depend on the final amount of official development aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116019	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116020	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when I looked at this report a little bit for 2019, and then you look at these one-time financial support, let's say for BiH, I found 10 + 23 users, for Serbia only it was 5 in 2019, so I wonder how you actually get to people who need one-time financial support is certainly not such a small number of people, in which way these people can even find out how to get help. Talked here earlier with people living in BiH, I have some kind of family there, the average Croat in BiH has no idea how you're giving help at all and how to get there at all. So, very squishy is information. In the media almost nothing, if anything goes through the community, even at mass they don't have that information, you wouldn't believe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116021	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116022	Good means BiH as a country of first priority certainly is that and you see in the report the most projects are carried out in BiH and the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia actually implements the most projects around the world, but the largest number in BiH so that they are the institutions through which all information can be obtained. They publish these programs publicly on their pages and I know that they are often in BiH together with our community so that I believe that this one is trying to provide quality information, but we will certainly draw attention to that information never enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116023	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116024	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, somehow on the trail of this question and your answer to that question, our club sees as one of the problems with this report the way you book projects, or we believe that in the report as development aid, you book projects that shouldn't be or should not be recorded in this way. If you're helping Croats outside Croatia it's something else, but I don't think it's development aid you shouldn't book it that way or, for example,. A safe tourist season where our officers go to Montenegro, as it says, to prevent the criminal activities of international character that occur during the tourist season in Montenegro. I mean it could be cross-border cooperation, it could be recorded in a number of other ways, but that development aid didn't. So, what would the report look like to be recorded in the right way? It's quite different. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116025	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116026	Now, if we were making up some of our own methodology, it wouldn't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116027	My colleagues and colleagues, and what's funny? The secretary of state is very specific. ... The fact that we learned to spend a lot of words for no reason is not [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, let's move on. [[I've got a factory opening in Jacob, so it's this one.]] Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116028	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, here I am, I would like to welcome this trend of increase seen in this report. This is good because, as counterpart Kirin mentioned, we and within the EU have certain objectives, so 0.33 gross national income, but in the perspective of course as well as the other 0.7 members. It is partly due to this and may be a follow-up to these issues, and some things that may not be classically perceived as part of development aid, but according to OECD rules are and are precisely to meet these objectives then and in this way, countries tend to decide to apply both these and these projects. What I think is important is in the perspective to increase this part of bilateral aid. It's a good thing he's focusing on BiH. Of course, there are projects elsewhere, for example. in Latin America, which I think is also worth the attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116029	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116030	What Mr Stier mentioned is the methodology or standards by which OECD DAC is recorded, and this rest is in agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116031	Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116032	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here is the point of 0.33% of gross national income by the 1930s. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is in a group of countries which should be set aside by that deadline. How much was that in 2020, as a percentage of that 516 million kuna? In 2020, did the start of the pandemic and the total lockdown affect the transfer of funds and the distribution of funds? By the way, thanks for helping the health institutions of the Croats in BiH. And one comment, so the relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia defines other laws, the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, the strategy and we are discussing the execution of these documents. The good part is also in this report of relations with the Croats, and it is the impression that it is incomplete. No quality highlighted exceptional political engagement, care for HVO members cross-border cooperation projects [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Also, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Barbaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116033	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116034	Yeah, so about the share, that's this percentage is 0.13% of gross national income. Regarding the question of whether the pandemic, the start of the Covid-19 2020 pandemic, influenced the implementation of projects, certain projects were certainly reduced, the possibility of travel, the implementation of projects live. That was the adjustment. Then some of the things that this one and this medical care came to, came to first, first plan. Now about, for this political aspect, this is the more technical document where they are listed, everyone, all official development aid projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116035	My colleague, Pocrnic Radošević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116036	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, the National Co-ordination Body for the Implementation of the Law on Development Co-operation and Humanitarian Assistance abroad is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but also during 2020 we had 21 stakeholders who implemented development and humanitarian projects, or who paid regular annual fees to international organisations that count as official development aid. Now these are and, these are state administration bodies, district self-government units and regional, financial institutions and others, other participants. Are there enough in the Republic of Croatia to carry out such activities that we could actually spend... You didn't hear anything, did you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is there enough institutions in the Republic of Croatia that can implement projects expected by the Republic of Croatia to pay them, which in some perspective would be 7% of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116037	Here's your answer. [[Incursion: 0.7%.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116038	It is certainly that there is this, but this one as you know about reaching that percentage of finance are the main prerequisite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116039	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116040	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, if we ignore the time of the delay in the report, I can say that you have written it in school and that it is legible and that you can actually understand everything. I'm glad you invested 516 million but should expect more and I'm glad that the Croats in BiH are a priority. What I would like to ask you, Croats in Kosovo. It seems to me that they are in an extremely difficult position, and this report shows that they have little participated in the money you gave them. So what's the methodology, which is how you give or don't give someone, some money for certain projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116041	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116042	Ma regarding the implementation of projects as you have seen and as you know and as you have seen in the official development report the assistance is decentralised means it depends on the institutions that implement this assistance abroad. About the Croatians in Kosovo we have programmes and together with the Central State Office this for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia who are focused here on Croatians in Kosovo, last summer we also had a program of learning Croatian language for children and stay in Croatia, or vacationing. That's what we're gonna do this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116043	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116044	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed secretary of state is therefore the report of the Official Development Assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Since it was a year in which we had a really big pandemic disaster, i.e. Covid-19, I was particularly interested in this part of tourism. And now that you look at an item that is related to tourism, which is shown by the Ministry of Tourism, it's about membership. So the report is about membership fees. That's the only amount we have here. So, you're showing membership here which is, so I'm curious about what development aid it is, what development aid we're talking about when it comes to the Ministry of Tourism, and you're showing an item of membership. So it may be somewhere else, but if it is development aid, then we expect some items that show what development aid is, which countries, why and why. So I'm asking you nicely for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116045	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116046	The answer is as short as the boredom, this is defined by the methodology of the international.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116047	And what's so funny to you I don't know? ... Well, the man specifically answered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116048	I mean I personally can't affect OECD DAC to change the methodology according to this proposal, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116049	Well, colleagues Oreshkovic has a lot of things that are related to your option that might be on the move. Yeah, yo, yo...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116050	Well, it's better just as fast as the Remetinec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116051	Yeah, well, there's time for that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116052	Yours is for Remetinec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116053	Yeah, well, your turn will come as I see it. A colleague now, Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116054	Thank you, Mr. President. EU Secretary of State is the largest donor of humanitarian development aid in the world, but there are often criticisms because the money is also being paid to countries that seriously violate human rights, which are actually earned by various benefits in such transactions. I therefore welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of your ministry, where, apart from those membership fees that are required, you are increasingly focusing on bilateral projects where accurate needs are recognised and where this can be transparently controlled. I am interested in the reports published by Aid to the Church in Need and Open Doors, and regarding religious freedoms where some 300 million Christians in the world are shown to be in serious persecution and where their religious freedoms are being violated in different ways, if you are thinking through development aid, focus more and put more emphasis on the development aid and value of this criterion, therefore respect for religious freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116055	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116056	So those projects that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is conducting and this one has an impact on them, anyway, to take care of it. And this project that you have proposed is an excellent example of this kind of development aid where, where young people have the opportunity to get education and quality values brought back home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116057	Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116058	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, 14.38% of the total amount of official development aid. 74.32 million kunas have been allocated to the European Development Fund. The European Development Fund, according to your report, is aimed at helping the poorest countries in the world by investing in capital multi-annual projects. Is the Republic of Croatia involved in the decision-making of the European Development Fund, which are the countries to which the aid will be granted? Do we have any influence and ways to distribute that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116060	So what it means as a member of the EU, of course, is that we have an impact on the proportion of size and number of inhabitants, or contributes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116061	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116062	Dear Secretary of State, Croatians in Vojvodina are still quite a number of national minorities, but in a very difficult financial, economic situation, and I am interested in what projects and what amount of Croatians in the Republic of Serbia, or Vojvodina, which are currently listed in around 57,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116064	Well, in 2020, you see that in the report itself, it's listed by, by, by the recipient country. All projects that mean our institutions are implemented abroad or implemented in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116065	Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116066	Thank you, Mr. President. I note that the descriptions of the projects are as short as your answers, let me support, but I would just like if you could just say a little longer on the teacher's question in front of me about what institutions mean to control that flow of money. You said that when it comes to applying to funds, for example, in the Federation of BiH, that Croats can contact the Central State Office and I am interested later in how the part is controlled. which institutions are involved means in control means that these money is spent i.e. how they justify themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116067	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116068	Well, who, as you know, every institution that gives funds is in charge of both this and the control of the spending of those funds. So no one gives money without ultimately seeing the report or checking whether or not these funds have been spent properly. An example of the school in Albania where the assistance went through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, our colleagues went there and checked whether it was built together with the UNDP, which is the programme partner in the project. So it's kept in mind that it's a purposely spent asset.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116069	And fellow Saturday, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116070	Thank you, Mr. President. In your report, you mention 21 stakeholders in the implementation of this development and humanitarian project during 2020 compared to the regular annual membership fees. It mentions 15 ministries and 6 offices and institutions. I am interested, therefore, in mentioning 5 counties, so why is it only 5 counties and whether these counties that are listed here, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska, Osijek-Baranja, Istria, Zagrebačka and Zadar are more humane than other counties. Is there any other county or unit of local self-government as a shareholder from 2020 to this day?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116071	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116072	Yes, this is about education and awareness-raising of counties about the need to implement official development aid, and of course their financial and technical capacities to implement the aid itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116073	Thanks to the Secretary of State, you can go back to the place we're done with the replicas. If my colleague Glavasevic were to go like this, he'd make 10 points a day and a half... Right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then let's go to the hearing now. The first is a colleague of Troscott's, a club representing the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116074	The esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed colleagues and fellow Members and those who follow us through the screen, was mentioned my name, so to clarify that as far as travel may be concerned, I may be here in the assembly not to praise but have visited the most countries in the world and not to travel, but I must explain later in diplomatic circles that as president of interparliamentary cooperation with the Kingdom of Spain that I was not even aware that the parliament of the Republic of Spain was travelling to Spain. It is not even about the journey really, I am, and as far as it was about when they were irrational travel about the Croatian Assembly where I was invited, I refused, but on the other hand, if anything else I could have been familiar with so that I could tell people in the diplomatic world why as president of international, interparliamentary cooperation with the Kingdom of Spain that I was not familiar with the journey. But not about that right now, I was mentioned, so let me get this straight. Regarding official development aids, therefore here it was mentioned that the greatest fact is that they are, in fact, capital and multi-annual projects. Now that someone is considering capital multi-annual projects, it actually comes to the conclusion that the largest capital in which someone can invest is either corporate, whether it's a public sector human. So man. And here's what I'd like to touch, so we're talking about half a million kuna here, half a billion kuna again, so we're not talking about half a billion kuna, we're talking about 250 billion kuna for the reason that already half a billion dollars goes to the EU budget, another ten million goes to the budget of the European Investment Bank, etc., so when we're talking about some kind of official development aid, we don't even know how that money goes because almost 60% of what we're discussing here today is leaving who knows what projects the EU is funding. Point two, so it's not clear, so you can't tell me the secretaries that the international accounting standard is to decide whether you're going to finance Mauricias, Turkmenistan and Congo. It has nothing to do with the international standard, so it's obviously some kind of development project that we as a MOST club have no problem with. It is not a problem for the Croatian state to finance and scholarship countries across Asia and Africa, although if they are good, if they are developed, if this will lead to GDP growth per capita within these countries, however. However, when you put it in line, so the strategy is always just a tool to get to the finish line, that if we put it in line that you don't invest in Latin America with some goal, and the goal might be to get our Croats back from Latin America then that's it, then that reality gets another connotation. So if the goal of investment in Latin America is to help our Croats specifically to return and stay here, then this paper doesn't make sense, and I'll tell you why. It doesn't make sense because maybe 30 people a year, and I know them all and I know them well coming from Latin America to Croaticum to study Croatian. Do you know how many remain in Croatia? Three. It is now a question of development assistance and development programmes. However, when we talk about some kind of help to the Croats, then no one can tell me that the international accounting standard of recording debt and demand in financial books determines whether in Argentina, Buenos Aires, Santiago de Chile will be a professor who will teach our young and our small and old and adult Croatian. So how are we going to connect to that diaspora if our people in the third and fourth generations don't already speak Croatian. What are we funding? It's nice to have CUDs I agree with that, but if we don't have a strategy to send 10 professors there if we have to from the Ministry of Education, and here are the instructions of the institutions that you funded, or who sent you the information that you put together in a single report, then that strategy doesn't make sense. It means that one professor alone covers Argentina, that Chile doesn't have a professor, we don't have a professor in Peru, people don't learn Croatian, they don't get to know each other, let's get to know something else there cultural societies so they sing the benches and so they have costumes, etc., but that all melts, there's no meat, no essence. Secondly, which investment in, says official development aid, which this investment is that our Croats travel 2,000km to vote from Asunion, from Montevide and from the north of Argentina that they must come to Buenos Aires there to vote. What kind of development aid is that? What is this message that you from Malmo from Sweden have to travel 2,000 that day to round up the option that you would like to vote on? It's the law now, isn't it? What kind of development aid is that? And we have a proposal again, here's what you can finance here, given that our diaspora might be if you don't already invest in Croatian, and you should, perhaps, send Croatian films that you will then translate and translate into Spanish. Now here's a proposal for a concrete one. It is not only a diaspora that follows us, so Croatia is my brand. We can laugh or not, but Croatia is brand so there in Argentina, in Chile followed Example by the way I played with those guys some. I followed the Primer. Well, Luka Modric is a brand in Argentina and Chile. Even when it's a good movie, you know what it is, which is a market of 500, 600 million people who might want to see some Croatian film and only know Croatian culture. It's not just our diaspora, and our diaspora based on such films and such projects we could say here's our homeland, this is what it looks like. Good movies, good documentaries. Luka's a brand. The essence of Croatia in Chile is brand. I was at the border with Argentina and Chile, standing by asking me this passport, I give my passport says so Croat, I said yes. Bum puts the press inside immediately, says Mirko Jozic, who won the Copa Libertadores and Colo Colo in Chile. And now that you put it in line, this isn't just a report to me when you look at how many Croats send money stamps to Croatia and when these money is put in, I don't know what we're investing in because it's certainly not a strategy, it's miserable. So these people have no contact with Croatian at all. Scholarships not to talk about studying, let's do a little bit more, but actually leave these people, stay here, meet their grandparents who used to move out with, from Brač, from Slavonian villages, etc. So it's a strategy then. Then we're talking about some kind of goal to really connect our Croats, and there are. We're talking about a contingent of about 300 to 400 thousand people in 2-3 waves that emigrated making economics at the turn of the century, which politically, there are about 300 to 400 thousand people. And these documents should, we should be discussing this, not messing with cash Flows here, and what something registered is long demand and Benko Kotruljević and double this enrollment. The second point, I was asked by the Croats, or Croatians, to excuse us, our people from Banovina and Pokuplje, as the Central Office for Reconstruction and Construction was mentioned here that he donated 10 million kuna. That's what the official report says. You are asked by these people of Farkasic from the village of Pokuplje, from Travarsko, what did you spend it on if Banovina is not renewed? What did you spend that money on? Nicely here everyone here today will say philanthropy has always been welcomed, we will applaud everyone, but to what you spent money on if the Krznaric family is now specifically in Farkasic was made only the foundation for a month and a half of the Hanžek and his angels did not come and greet. When the angels say these are his secretaries who still blackmail people that if they will tell politicians, journalists etc., yes, that they are actually doing nothing that they will not be the first but to petitify on, to rebuild Croatia. And then we have what? As we treat our family in the diaspora, which shows this report so we're just kidding around here, cash flow, etc., and then we have how we treat our people in Banovina, which is only 70 kilometers from the City of Zagreb. These are our strategies that we need to talk about, right? That the Bitch family needs a drink I don't know which psychos need people to drink anymore, which I don't know septic pits need to swim in the backyards to hear, but here the Central Building Office donated 10 million kunas. Who? She asked her colleague where the money was going? You say institutions are controlling, so here's exactly what Farkasic and the villages would like to know where that money is going, where it's long and demandingly gone, if they can't have their own house on their grandfather's, in their own, in their own backyard. These are the things we should touch. And these reports are a real opportunity to discuss them, but it's a shame they're still two years old that we have to wait for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116075	We are going to a second debate, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116076	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our Lapidary Secretary of State, this greeting to you as well. I would like to begin this debate once more with an emphasis on the fact that this report is very seriously late. I talked about it more at the station so that I wouldn't, I wouldn't spend a lot of time from this debate on it, but especially in the context of the criticism we actually heard from several sides here that, that we're all kind of wondering how structured it is, how these funds are structured, how you're spending them, if there's some kind of surveillance and even what seeing how effective it is that we've achieved with these means. I think that, in order for it to be much better if we'd had this debate before, I would have really, I hope we'd be able to conduct these discussions in time in the future. Before we go in at all and we can enter into a debate about what we would do with these funds, we actually have a problem with, with the way we book these funds because there are things here and we think of it as a very big problem in our club for as development aid and co-operation is recording things that we should never do. A colleague, Mrak Taritas, mentioned one membership fee, but there are other memberships listed in the World Health Organization, for example. Therefore, membership fees should not be registered as development aid and cooperation, not or this project would be a safe tourist season. People with all due respect are not, that's not what they want to achieve. In some ways, in his replica, colleague Stier has given room for one assessment that it is actually quite important to achieve a certain percentage of the funds that stand out for it and the fact is that then projects that should not actually be recorded in other things are recorded. That's how it is, obviously, but don't make us, so don't just justify yourself by methodology because that's not it. So, it's not a matter of methodology that's a question of consciously that of hairing books to make it look like we're growing reliably, and continuing growth in development aid and to be satisfied, satisfied with some of the proposition of our participation in some international organisations. So it's not a matter of methodology that's a question of what hairstyles are. And that is, we think it's a very serious criticism and probably the most serious criticism we can draw from this place because if we were to book things that are really international development cooperation then we would definitely not talk about these nearly half a billion but it would be much, much, much less. And that brings me in some way to what we consider to be another serious criticism. The relationship between bilateral multilaterals is considered to be far too large in favour of multilaterals, 70 almost 70, a little over 76%. In fact, if the idea of development aid and cooperation were to be, and I mean it by the nature of what it's trying to achieve is one form of state soft power, then it should be a reverse relationship. So 75% of bilaterals, 25% of multilaterals, let's say, because in this way, I mean everything we give in the EU or other international organisations that will then distribute and integrate it into their kind of development aid projects and cooperation that, well, that's nice and it's good practice, one that exists and everything okay. But at the end of the day, if radio projects like schools in Albania, say, that's where we get the leader's say, that kind of thing builds a leadership role in the region if you want to build it. And one of the goals of our foreign policy should be to build it, the position of the leader. So, that requires of, I mean it requires a lot more administration than you're willing to do because what you do is you just pick up from the others, from the bodies that you cooperate with what they've written as development aid and cooperation and put it in a 12-page report here and then it's like that. But that's not good practice. So this should be targeted and much, with many more bilateral projects that in our neighbouring countries citizens and citizens of those countries can see, yeah, this is what the Republic of Croatia has done, this is what the Republic of Croatia did, and to see then it's okay that our neighbours, we have a good relationship with them they help us. Well, I don't know if a certain number of tourists come to the sea every year from Macedonia to know that they are coming to a friendly country which, in some ways, brings back one part of it does not, and that's where this relationship is built. This way, watch what is done at the bilateral level most is actually helping the Croats in BiH, but this is also something that should not actually be registered as bilateral development cooperation because we, by doing so, are not oriented to BiH, we are oriented to the Croats in BiH. And of course we have a constitutional obligation and of course we care, of course we finance, all right, but that, but that's not what this report should be about. So we must support the development of the whole of BiH, and it is absolutely necessary to finance a lot of what is related to the Croatian community, to the Croatian constitutional people, but it should not be haired in these books to say so. We also find it problematic to consider, under development cooperation, the financing of asylum, visa systems and illegal migration infrastructures. I mean, it's actually something that should be, which is contrary to this concept. And in the end, I might have left room for, for something positive. I think it's very good that the stakeholders are in the process that there are a lot of them, that they're diverse. Let's just say it was a great pleasure to see the Ministry of Defense on this list because, specifically, as a former assistant minister at the Ministry of Defence, I am aware of how much of what has actually been done in that vault throughout his history would seem really high-quality, first-class developmental assistance and cooperation. You want from defense cooperatives to part of it we are in fact and in the last meeting we have the opportunity with the Jewish women who have been victims of sexual violence to work on, to create a legal framework like the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence that we have made at the Ministry of Defense at the time. So this is a couple of excellent examples of quality development aid and cooperation. And knowing that the Ministry of the Interior can tell you that although we have actually opened up space in our mandate in time for this, I think it is necessary and that it would be a very good much greater engagement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on what, for example, from that portfolio or from some other portfolios would seem, could make a really good contribution to such reports and to international development assistance and cooperation of the Republic of Croatia at all. And in particular, such things would be useful in bilaterality. So, the criticism I'm going to give you is that, I have the impression that you're trying to satisfy numbers and inside you're suffering everything and everything just to make it seem like there's growth, but there's no visions, there's no direction, there's no interest more than to do a serious thing here because our country has an incredible actually possibility, especially in our neighborhood, that through bilateral cooperation it does a lot in its picture, how much we can really have a real impact on and how much we can really help our neighbouring countries achieve those goals that they've set out, and that one day they can actually become EU member states. Croatia has an obligation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116077	The following will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116078	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, therefore we are discussing the report on the implementation of the official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2020, and I must immediately say technical criticism. So now June 2022, we are even worse because for 2019 we discussed in March 2021, it was already said that the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, delivered this report with an act of 19 August 2021, and the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed 9.12.2021. So six months was supposed to come here on the agenda. And another thing about the table item that is now in this report is pretty hard to read. I mean, you're listed all the items inside, but they're so small letters, those tables are wide, and it was a living horror to even study this year, so I'm curious why you didn't use the shape of the display as for 2019 it seemed to me that it was a little more transparent then. Now this report actually relies on the Law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad and on the National Development Cooperation Strategy from 2017 to 2021. The implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia is decentralised and the resolution bodies are implementing their development humanitarian projects by following the priorities set out in the national development cooperation strategy. For 2020, 516.89 million kunas were allocated, 424 projects were implemented, 21 resolution bodies participated. It is multilaterally 394 million kunas of development aid, bilateral programmes and 123 million projects. And then it turns out that compared to 2019, it increased by 7.5%. The ruling insists that the continued trend has increased overall annual separation. We are bound8 because we have entered the EU with a group of countries since, after 2004, then we must actually single out 0.33% of gross national income. The most bilateral projects were implemented in the countries of Southeast Europe, so BiH is the highest, largest individual recipient of Croatia's development aid, so 215 projects and 81.54 million kuna. Then Albania, the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Kosovo, and then there are some Ukraine, Venezuela, Gambia, Mauritius, Turkmenistan, Mongolia, Libya, Bolivia, Georgia, Benin, Syria, Afghanistan and other developing countries. I'm mentioning this because our secretary of state was pretty short in his opening statement. So there were 10 ministries, 2 central state offices, 5 counties, CNB, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, State Hydrometeorological Institute and National Foundation for Civil Society Development. I especially watched for the Ministry of Health 44 million kuna 2019. 44.36 million kuna. As I came out of that resistor, I was particularly interested in it. KB Mostar, 5 homes of health and here membership for the World Health Organization books, I also agree with what was said to actually be recorded in this report and what is not really some direct help to neighbouring countries. Now, development cooperation policy should be an important instrument for the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. We should continue to plan this in detail, strengthen inter-resor coordination to help as effectively as possible. Of course, we need to strengthen bilateral relations right through this bilateral dimension of development cooperation is important for the best possible establishment of partnership with countries, and it is said that it opens up a better perspective in the long term for economic co-operation. However, when we read all this together, we wonder if it will, say, keep the Croats specifically in BiH? I've already said the biggest individual... 215 projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 760,000 Croats lived before the war in BiH, 2013. 435,000, and the current data still I don't know, I haven't been able to find it yet, but the fact is that the inhabitants of the Croats are actually getting smaller and smaller in BiH. When we look at which the criteria are actually guided, then there are sectoral priorities of the national strategy, there are geographical priorities that respect the foreign policy, security, development and economic dimension, and then a large part of the help is directed towards the Southeast Europe area and both the eastern and southern neighbourhood and the developing countries according to the list of Committees on Development Cooperation for Economic Co-operation and Development. And then this question that I asked in the replica is, in fact, how do you detect and identify individuals and institutions that need help. The average Croat in BiH, I really talked to people, some not of course with everyone, the average Croat doesn't even know what the possibilities of people who live hard, who are in difficult social status, difficult health conditions how they can actually get the information that they can actually apply to get help. So for the year 2020 for BiH there were individual, these one-time aids in two places are showing 10 plus 23, so that's 33 individuals, in Serbia 1 and Venezuela 1. Also, the issue of institutions, not everyone in BiH does not, of course, follow the official pages of this Central State Office, so I think that here is the real question in which they are informed at all and how they can get the necessary. Here I'm specifically saying that we have some families in Zenica this one before the war over 20,000 2013, only 8,000, and now there's a lot, a lot less and there's really a question of what our people are going to keep in BiH. I came across the preparation of an interesting scientific paper by Ms. Martina Miljak, the survival of Croats in BiH. And she did it to 350 respondents and now 94.9% express the general dissatisfaction of those Croats with life in BiH. In the first place, a high degree of corruption, a general sense of uncertainty, mistrust in institutions and the political system, the unequal position of Croats in relation to the Bosniaks and Serbs in BiH and the poor economic situation. So in any case, we're giving everything as some kind of targeted assistance specifically to BiH but, of course, other countries really need to be meaningful and better connected with people that they know at the end of the line that at least someone is taking care of our people this way. As far as individual countries are concerned, I have already mentioned the number one BiH where 215 projects were of course seen also to increase the quality of the health system resistance, the work of veteran associations, the area of culture and digitisation. Then the development of infrastructure, the revitalisation of agricultural production, sports facilities, and then by other countries is also listed by the not knowing areas of culture in the Republic of Serbia, the language theme in Montenegro means the area of culture, the movement of cultural heritage, etc. One more thing I'd like to communicate with is a matter of health situation. In fact, in 2020, we all know if it was quite marked by the problems of Covid pandemic, we still haven't left the pandemic. Some sort of partial medical aid was provided by us. Among other things, with regard to the donations of vaccines, so as far as BiH is concerned, I also took the data just started to donate Croatia in the 6th month of 2021, and that is 50,000 doses of vaccines, of which 30,000 for BiH, 10,000 Montenegro and Kosovo, so it was quite late and people were actually, you know, a great demand for it, but people simply couldn't get in time for vaccination. And I think it might have to be done before, especially since it was seen as ours, what is the dynamics of our cleavage in Croatia, and then it might not have happened that according to the data that I believe we all encountered in the media that more than 275,000 doses of vaccines have been destroyed in Croatia due to the expiry of the duration and unrealised donations. So, this really needed to be taken care of, we also warned on the Health Committee not to happen, there was a few months ago that 490,000 vaccines were donated, and now I found 883,000 doses donated throughout the country. and not only in BiH, so it could be done [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's a better one. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116079	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Darko Saturday, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116080	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers of State, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the National Development Cooperation Strategy for the period 2017 to 2021 sets sectoral and geographical priorities for the implementation of international development cooperation, and based on the strategic objectives of the foreign policy of Croatian specific advantages in the donor community and the commitments and recommendations derived from key international documents. These sectoral priorities of the national strategy focus primarily on the implementation of official development assistance in the area of strengthening the dignity of every human being through activities in the education, health, promotion of human rights, protection and empowerment of women, children and young people. The second sectoral priority sets out the area of development security measures and the construction of democratic institutions with an emphasis on sharing Croatian specific experiences in war and post-war stabilisation. While the third sectoral priority focuses official development assistance on support activities for responsible economic development. The geographical priorities respect the foreign security, development and economic dimension and direct activities in Southeast Europe along with BiH as a programme state. The second geographical priority directs official development assistance towards the European Eastern and Southern Neighbourhood with Ukraine and Jordan as programme states. While the third geographical priority includes developing countries according to the Committee on Development Cooperation, Economic Co-operation and Development. During 2020, a total of 21 stakeholders have already been said today through development and humanitarian projects. We mentioned 15 ministries, 6 offices and institutions, units of local particularly regional self-government, 5 counties. The EU, together with its Member States, committed itself to achieving the collective objective of detachment for official development aid of 0.7% of gross national income by 2030. The Member States that joined the EU after 2004 including our Republic of Croatia have committed to raising the allocation for official development aid for a given period of 0.33 gross national income. The overall allocations by the Republic of Croatia for official development aid from 2009 to 2020 show a stable growth trend at the annual level. This is an indicator of how the active action of the Republic of Croatia on the agenda of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policies is becoming increasingly important in Croatia's foreign policy. The largest share in the total is the contribution to the general EU budget from which EU development instruments are financed. In 2020, the amount recorded on behalf of the payment of that contribution as official development aid amounted to 229.15 million kuna, representing 52.07% of total, total development aid in 2020. The second largest share refers to the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the European Development Fund, which in 2020 amounts to €74.32 million and I have an individual share in the total, total official development aid of 14.38%. In 2020, a total of 21 resolution bodies implemented development and humanitarian projects from their responsibilities. The largest individual development aid provider was the Ministry of Finance, given the competences in paying for the annual contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the general EU budget. The following are the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs took part in development assistance with a total of 116 million 246 thousand 882 points 26 kuna and with the regular settlement of international members of the Republic of Croatia in international organisations, including the obligation to pay for the annual contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the European Development Fund and the implementation of development and humanitarian projects from the competence of the ministries, the highest single bilateral project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which implements the RES. It is a humanitarian reconstruction project, an earthquake of a destroyed elementary school in the Republic of Albania worth 7 million 535 thousand 850 kuna. The Republic of Croatia traditionally supports BiH's development and stability and supports its path towards the EU. The implementation of development and humanitarian projects by the Republic of Croatia aims to support BiH's political, social and economic development and contributes to strengthening standards in all areas of the interest of BiH as well as all its citizens, including members of the constituent Croatian people. In addition to the number of projects implemented, BiH is first and foremost granted bilateral official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia with total value in the official development aid of €81.54 million. The Republic of Albania is in second place for the bilateral aid granted, I have already mentioned, and in fact the secretary of state is a project of building a primary school worth just over 7.5 million kuna. Of course, it should also be mentioned how to help projects in the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Kosovo when we talk about Southeast Europe. In the humanitarian part of the Republic of Croatia, any assistance requested by the official international channels shall be taken into account and humanitarian aid shall promote equality and shall be guided by the international principles of humanitarian action or the principles of humanity, neutrality, independence and impartiality. The world’s humanitarian crises are increasingly devastating and are increasingly taking on the character of extended action that is causing major material and human losses and the resulting growth of the need for humanitarian aid. A rapid reaction to the situation of major natural disasters is particularly important. In line with these guidelines, the Republic of Croatia is developing partnerships with a number of international organisations of development and humanitarian character. According to the total figures of official development aid in 2020, the biggest recipients of bilateral development aid were BiH, followed by Albania, Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, which confirms the dominant focus of national stakeholders on the official exchange of assistance on the priority area of Southeast Europe. In 2020, despite the pandemic of Covida-19 disease and the devastating earthquakes that hit it managed not only to maintain the level of detachment for official development aid but also to raise the detachment rate compared to the previous year by 7.5%. This undoubtedly proved to be a solid and effective member of the EU and as a responsible country according to its direct participation in active global initiatives in the neighbourhood. The HDZ Club will support the report on official development assistance from the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116081	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116082	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretary with associate, colleague and colleague I will start with the Law on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance abroad purely because we should know what we should talk about today because today we are talking about something that is not entirely in line with what is written in the law and even less with what is written in the strategy or national strategy. When we talk about the law, one of the principles is transparency set out in the law in Article 3, and this principle of transparency actually means that the outflow of funds for projects, programmes and humanitarian aid as well as their supervision will be based on the principles of good governance, etc., etc. and will be implemented in agreement with the authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government, civil society organisations, the private sector, the academic community and other stakeholders. And these others are interested among other things in a physical person. And when a colleague's question about how to help our Croats in BiH, the secretary answers, we have information on a portal, I think it's a bit odd at least because those who are most needed actually have no access to that portal because they don't have the Internet in their home. These are people who are poor because, among other things, this aid has been to alleviate poverty and hunger. And if we talk about it then we need to get to those people who are really needed and I actually expected from our colleagues who are here representatives from the middle of Croatia to talk more about really helping those who are most needed. It is not at all dispute whether these projects, which are to be implemented according to national, national, national strategy, are in line with the needs of a country. It certainly is, if it were not necessary, it would not be financed, but we should set different goals. If we had in our national strategy the goal of building a specific project within 5 years, the results of that project would be precisely defined then we would know what stage we are in today. We have no idea what phase we're in today after these financial reports. And that's one of the problems we have to point out. The report gave us all the data, we got all the numerical data, we got a detailed description of what it was doing, but we don't know what it was at. And what will be the effects, we have no idea. We don't know if after this spent money we've met 5% needs, 15% needs, on a particular project or 100% needs, and we should know that. If in the national strategy we had first defined the objectives and then the strategy for achieving these objectives then we would know a year for a year when we are investing in what phase we are in and what else we need to do. Help should also be systematically prepared if we really want to help our Croats in evicted Croatia. Especially in BiH. These are our neighbours, these are the people who live here almost with us and we need to allow them to prepare for normal EU entry. Unless we're gonna do it that way, we're not gonna do it much. I do not want to talk about the objectives defined in the Law on Development, Cooperation and Internal Assistance abroad. Probably all read what and how, but I want to draw your attention that we will have a very interesting report for 2022. You know why? Because the law says that a national strategy is adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a period of 5 years and sets out sectoral, territorial and other priorities of bilateral, trilateral and multilateral official development aid. Don't forget today's date is June 17th, so we didn't bring that strategy, so I'm interested in how it's funded this year, which projects are funded and based on what. What will it say in the 2023 report, well it will probably be there in 2027 on the agenda, so it will probably be forgotten, but the law clearly states. I asked the secretary, the secretary explained what was going on. The point is that the new law is being prepared, and after the new law is passed, a new strategy will be adopted, but the question is, what are we currently working on? Are we helping our Croats in BiH this year? Are there any projects? If it's based on what? In fact, if you read a little more in detail this law then you can see that funding is clearly and loudly, the means of implementing official development aid are being ensured that the SRP means official development aid, are being provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for each year according to which, with the national strategy and the implementation plan, we do not have a national strategy. And if we took something out of the budget, then we passed it past the law, so we broke the law that we brought here ourselves, voted. Here's one part of the story we're talking about right now, what we're talking about today. Furthermore, I've really given myself a hard time and I wanted to do an analysis of what, how and why it's going since we've been prescribed that we will actually respect sectoral priorities, that geographical priorities will be respected, so I've tried to pair up sectoral and geographical priorities. You've seen inside what's written in our report, we've got a few charts, one chart tells us about how we actually spent on the resisting bodies. And now I wanted to divide these resolutions by geographicality, of course I'm talking about bilateral co-operation, but that's impossible. We got a plate, an excel plate in which we have a lot of data and me even what bothers my colleague is petty, it doesn't even bother me I took a little stronger glasses and increased so I managed to sort of read it, but what is it? It's just that if you're trying to sort out a variety in that table and let's say you're trying to make a variety around the country where it's funded it's impossible. You know why? Because one column says BiH, the other says Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then when you make a sort, then you go first to BiH, and then you have something I don't know, so you have Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it is impossible to make an analysis, it is impossible to do without telling you that in some fields you have listed Montenegro, Serbia, BiH, Albania, etc., etc. So we have a regulation on what we need to do, how we need to do, what we need to report, but we didn't actually get it. So this report by, where we should actually have data on sectoral priorities, we have that, but if we want to match that to geographical priorities we don't have and it's almost impossible to come up with if you don't sit down and type in the data, data, and then you can do an analysis afterwards. So we've got a lot of data, supposedly detailed data for each project, especially which we're about to do later and incomparable and with which we can't do anything about it. So I appeal to the secretary and to the associate to bring it together. I welcome you to definitely welcome us to get the information in the tables so be the excel tables but let it be clearly prescribed by the cabinets what should be written in which column or column of which one I said well in the column or in which field. And if we want to compare then it must write there that this is bilateral co-operation, it cannot be written once or for the second time bilateral co-operation if we want to compare by geographical priorities must always be BiH, and it cannot once be Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second time BiH, the third time 4 countries listed in that same field. So your data is incomparable and we can't make any conclusions in this way, so we can't affect a better new national programme that we should be doing in the next period. We should learn something from this report. We should know what we wanted to do and what we did, what our results are. If we didn't learn anything, we didn't do anything. And that's a few times already, it's not the first report. Unfortunately, this is the position of our club, I hope that the remarks I have made will be adopted and that for the next period or the next year 2021, given that the report is currently in the assembly but not all contributions, I hope that we will get these contributions in the right form and that we will be able to discuss them differently and praise the following report. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116083	We are now moving to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Somehow on the trail among other things, what Pavić was saying, and also on the trail of the debate on behalf of the club where I said it was very difficult to start at all to talk about how our development aid should look substantial when, if you want to say it methodologically as you like, we disagree and we have serious objections in the way this is drawn up, perhaps you should say something about it and the content. Development aid on the one hand, I think, is conditioned by circumstances. So if we're focused on the bilateral, it is an instrument of soft power, and that's why we're based on our criticism that, that the relationship between multilaterals and bilaterals here from our perspective is actually bad and that this is seen among other things in our relations with the countries in the neighborhood. That is, it is part of what can form development aid and cooperation, so some context in which our country is located. The second part, of course, is always shaped by who is in power and there are normal differences in vision, when vision exists and the issue is priority. Here's an example. A fellow worker regularly advocates helping persecuted Christians who have absolutely nothing to dispute about, and we can agree on that. The priority of the parliamentary majority, for example, or the government in which counterpart Petir allows it to be a higher priority. In another government that might be otherwise oriented, it might be less positioned. So it's not what, it's kind of a thing to see, yeah, it's more important for us to do with, with our means this than maybe this, some triage as much as we want to participate or profile in it, let's say it like that. And I'm saying there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. What I see as a problem is precisely the lack of this vision because if it wasn't for what fellow Petitir was actually looking for to see exactly some orientation, some profile of any profile of what we want to say about Croatia with our developmental help. I think it's very problematic, therefore, that lack of vision where when we talk about this, we only see a vision of the fact that as much of what can be written in it as possible, even if it shouldn't be recorded as a development aid. And it's actually scary when you think about it. Watch me here in the Croatian Parliament very often we have very passionate discussions about our worldview, and development aid is one of the places where this worldview belongs because you're saying this is my country, we're like this, this is our priority, this is what we want to do, this is what we want to tell ourselves about other countries around us. And there isn't, or here it would be if, in a particular case, there wasn't this item that my colleague Petyr asked to be. And in fact, it may not be weird considering that our general foreign policy, our European policy has no profile or its profile is very bad. Of course, when two leading people in a country who are co-forming our foreign and European policy cannot agree on about what season is outside, let alone what should be some direction or profile of our foreign and European policy. So of course we have that problem. And the other part of that is that when we discuss the budget here in the assembly it should be one of the areas where the government should be open to, I mean more open than elsewhere for the inputs from all sides of the assembly because it reflects the whole of Croatia and how we present ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116085	Thank you. We have several replicas, the Honorable Representative Pavić has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116086	Your Honor, I have tried to communicate on behalf of the club what we saw as problems, and I see that your understandings are similar to ours, and I think we should approach the writing of a national strategy differently. We have five years to determine what we wanted to achieve with the previous strategy and what we have achieved. Therefore, if we do the right thing by writing this strategy, if we collect requests, if we define our ideas, our views on how we will present Croatia in the world or in the evicted Croatia, I think we will have far better results and that we will be perceived differently by the world. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116087	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116088	Thank you for your comment, colleague Pavić, that in the debates at least on the opposition side, I think we've all somehow seen the same thing. And yes, I agree, in fact, with one more thing that you said in your debate, so the report that we got that on page 12 with the attached list of projects that are funded, and in fact there's no evaluation, there's no impact assessment. We don't actually know, we heard from the secretary of state that, that those who, that the institutions where that item is that they should be doing it, but shouldn't that actually be part of it, part of the report that we know, yeah okay in this institution this group of projects went through like this, this one went through like this. So, I mean, this is, like, who's looking at that star in the sky, that's the condition of two years ago. Things are different today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116089	Honorable representative of Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116090	Thank you. Dear fellow Glavasevic could agree with you that there are no clear visions in our strategy related to this development aid. I certainly advocate that persecuted Christians, not only in the Middle East, but wherever they get more attention or concrete help, agree with that, should be a priority. However, my question concerns a vision from Brussels, so at EU level, around the world. So, or you agree with Pope Francis's finding that it is a form of ideological colonization, so specifically when it comes to helping some poor countries in Africa often to carry out the possibilities of artificial contraception, abortion in those countries or something like that. Is the Pope right that such sensitive moral issues should not be related to the development of aid?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116091	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116092	Thus, the question of the effectiveness of development aid in the area of gender equality and sexual rights, or the rights of sexual minorities, is something debated and there are definitely disagreements about it. I'll tell you that I think that every development aid in some way is the statement statement about who we are, what our priorities are, and if you want us to do that, we'll be very happy to help because it's something we put emphasis on and what we believe in. So, I do not dispute that if we are giving as an EU development aid to the rights of sexual minorities, for gender equality because these are our values, they are European values. So whoever's okay with it is free to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116093	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116094	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Glavasevic so we heard several times today we are discussing a report that should have been on the agenda during last year, but we did well because we knew we had a report from 2018 from 2019. The report therefore lists what seemed not to have been a concrete analysis of what was achieved. There are no concrete indicators that we have affected the quality of life of the Croats in BiH, so if you think development aid has yet to gain its purpose and achieve the desired goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116095	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116096	Thank you for the question, fellow werewolf, and I think that, that's something we're all wondering, what we've achieved with this exactly. For some projects, it's not hard to see their value at all. Watch a school in Albania or a school anywhere else achieves its value. If we also talk about persecuted Christians regardless of who the priority would be, who would not be the priority, it must be well - spent money. But look first, if we show membership in the World Health Organization as development aid, and realistically it's not or sending our police officers to Montenegro for the season, I think it's not the same development aid but it's served by hairing books. So, me, I'd set up a thesis like this. All that or at least almost everything that would really be development aid is certainly well spent money, and all that was used to frizz I mean it's not easy, so of course not even spent money in terms of development aid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116097	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116098	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glavasevic agrees with you and I said in my replica that there is certainly a growing emphasis on bilateral development aid because there is then a concrete user of these funds, the possibility of transparency and control and we see concrete benefits, in this direction we should go. But what she would disagree on is that you are apostrophe that we do not have clear criteria and that there is a lack of vision of where development aid goes. This is prescribed, therefore, in the area of strengthening the dignity of every human person through activities in the education, health, promotion of human rights, protection, empowerment of women, children and young people. The second sectoral priority is the area of peace, security, development and the construction of democratic institutions with an emphasis on sharing Croatian specific experiences in war and post-war stabilisation. The third priority is to support responsible economic development. So, through my amendment here, I just wanted to point out that it's important to enter the hierarchy of human rights and then recognize those priorities. If we scholarship students from Afghanistan Where there was war, let's recognize that in Syria and Iraq there was war, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116099	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116100	Yeah, no, that's it, you'd be back, so you disagreed with me I'd go back to what I told my colleague, the Vukovac. So what we should really write down as development aid and cooperation is certainly money that will have its effect and which are well spent. I have a much bigger problem with these things that are pushed inside that should never be written like that. And so, I think this second part of your comment actually, that we must, of course, wherever the war is, if it's something we want to help us find ways and be engaged actively about seeing ok, maybe we can pay them something now, but maybe we can, in the context of some kind of exchange or get some third money to send some of our defense cooperatives this kind of thing that doesn't cost a lot but can help no. So that's, that's something where I think there's no activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116101	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116102	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I mentioned in the discussion on behalf of the club I encountered a scientific paper relatively recent 2021. Mrs Miljak, who wrote that under the title of the survival of Croats in BiH, quite this kind of layered writing and then, since, in this sample of 350 respondents, 94.9% expressed great dissatisfaction with her life in BiH. In the first place corruption... a feeling of uncertainty, a lack of confidence in the legal and political system, an unbalanced position of Croats in relation to Bosniaks and Serbs, then most of them have a sense of belonging to the Republic of Croatia rather than to BiH. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Many feel foreigners in BiH itself. Whether our vision of development aid and all of the help we give that is of course valuable yet has some meaning or the ruling must listen to such scientific works and see little and come out of these frameworks that are now being led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116103	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116104	Yeah, that's, that's again part of what I mentioned actually in the debate on behalf of the club. We help Croats, concrete assistance to Croats in BiH should not be recorded here. It's our constitutional obligation, it's totally okay and we need to do it but it's not, it's not this. Why? Because BiH's first problem is something concerning all citizens and citizens of BiH and that's corruption. So, we can't if we're exclusively focused on the Croats in BiH to help develop the whole state because it's simply what the structure of that state is that we're not going to do it. And when we criticized Croatia's relationship to BiH from this pay phone, this is an absolute part of it, part of that criticism where we are not focused on BiH as a whole except what we do with the Croats in BiH, but rather It just has this component. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116105	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116106	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glavasevic, we have set up and discussed this report with two aspects from the very beginning from the request for a break. One aspect is form, and another aspect is content. So we form had satisfied, we have a report on whether 12 pages or 26 is irrelevant to me. Sometimes 12 cells are incomparably better than 100 pages, so you don't have to look, you don't need to extract quality from quantity. But what we've seen through our replicas is through your debate and through all the debates that we actually want to have content. That it is much more important for us to get a report in which we have content, in which we know what the entrance was, what we have done and what the ultimate goal is and what the goal is next. And that's what this report is missing. It's missing that he was actually our goal and our ultimate goal. And these discussions I think the ministry should understand in that way that they are not just records of everything but and what needs to be moved on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116107	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116108	Thank you. No, I couldn't agree more, I think he understands, the report on how half a billion kuna spent, the form has to fit the content. So the content of these 516 million kunas is a much larger content than the form attributed to it, no. But why, exactly because of this last thing you said. Because they, therefore, are focused on satisfying the form of developmental assistance, to say we've spent so much and that's so much and that's more and that's more so then it's probably our lapidary secretary of state who's a fan of shorter form that so I say we have to knock on the door at the state administration's institutions say you have something to throw in, please, membership fee and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116109	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116110	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to begin by commending the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs on a report that is clear, understandable and which shows positive trends at least in my opinion, and how much I have heard from other colleagues in terms of strengthening precisely bilateral cooperation and assistance in the context of development assistance. I think that's good because by giving ourselves the money that we donate to those who are really in need and in this sense and developing greater transparency of the processes themselves, but also the measurement of results. And I'm going to say why it seems to me the most important maybe in the beginning to apostrophe. For this reason, I have had opportunities as a representative in the European Parliament to often participate in debates relating to human rights violations. They would usually take place in Strasbourg at a plenary session Thursday where everyone would be disgusted by both the representatives and the representatives of the European Commission and the council that certain third countries do not respect human rights, violate human rights, but then, after that Thursday, the EU would continue to have its good economic and economic relations with them. One of those countries that I have often referred to as an example is Pakistan, which, according to my information, achieves an annual surplus of one billion euros because in the general system of benefits, on the other hand, we all know that there is a law on blastemia, that there is a death penalty, that there is no respect for the rights of religious minorities, and if you are a Christian in Pakistan, the only job you can do is cleaning public toilets, so there is no thinking there. So in order not to put ourselves in a position to be hypocritical to discuss one day how human rights are being violated in a country, and then we continue to do business with it I think it is clearly important, it is important to set the criteria clearly and here the Croatian government through its strategy set the criteria where we want to direct that money. And you can see that through the spending structure. Of course, we are focused on those countries that are here in the nearby environment where Croats live, regardless of whether they are Croats as constituent people in BiH, where they go the largest amount of funds for concrete projects that are numbered by name and last name, or whether it is about Croats as a national minority living in both Serbia and Montenegro but also in other areas of Southeast Europe. I was a little distracted at the beginning when I heard from some colleagues who seemed to be just criticizing for criticism, who talked about how we help others when there are so many needed in Croatia. So there was an earthquake in Albania, and we reacted completely correctly. The earthquake was in February 2020 when we decided to help build a primary school in Albania. At the end of that year we had an earthquake and the Republic of Hungary helped us build a primary school in Petrinja to help us in such a difficult situation because we all saw how devastated Banovina was after multiple earthquakes. So he asks such questions I don't think it's really appropriate because it's logical to recognize priorities and help. As I have already mentioned, if we see that one of the priorities of education is that the priority is respect for human dignity and in general human rights, then I think that it is important to be consistent and I thank the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs who have recognised this one of my suggestions to follow the hierarchy of human rights and to be consistent because we have well recognised that it is necessary to help students from Afghanistan to come to Croatia, study here to get the necessary knowledge, return to their country and rely on it to build a better democratic society, but then we must follow it consistently. And on that trail was my amendment to recognize these needs both in Syria and Iraq where Christians are a religious minority, they are a religious minority in both Pakistan and India. And when we look at the full amount we give for development aid of 516.89 million kuna, then we discuss as some extravagant of a million-and-a-half kuna that have been set aside for purpose on the basis of my amendment to recognise religious freedom as the fundamental human right that Article 18 speaks of as well. Declarations on In general human rights, I think it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excessive. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116111	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr, I think that this very amendment of yours on helping Christians who have been persecuted by minorities in the countries that you have unfortunately mentioned in the last reports is also the most persecuted religious community in the world. That is not the case, thank God in Europe, but as soon as it comes out of Europe, you see how much Christians are persecuted. I don't think that this amendment of yours, though, in this report, we're not going to have this result yet because it refers to the period after 2020, but I think there's another role to play, and that's just the fact that Christians are the most persecuted religious community in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116113	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116114	Thank you fellow Stier, so just as 300 million Christians have been persecuted in various ways and have informed Aid to the Church in Need the Vatican Foundation and Open Doors as a Protestant foundation. They read the same data. The most endangered areas are of course except the Middle East, Asia and Africa. And in that sense, surely we need to address these questions because religious freedoms are at the very heart of human rights. And if we don't recognize it and we can't guarantee people around the world to consume their human rights, then the question is whether our job is right or empty if I can say so. In that sense, I find it important to raise awareness of the importance of respect for human rights, including the question of freedom of religion, conscience, public speech, are normal to us. But in some other countries, they're being violated and we have to react to that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116115	Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, BiH is certainly a key foreign policy priority of the Republic of Croatia and also a security and economic priority. As you comment on part of the co-workers' reserve in today's debate on part of the assistance to BiH, Croats in BiH, and if the tenders are conducted in the most transparent way, so the election commission is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the effects of these are being disputed, is not strengthening health, education, cultural institutions one of the priorities and conditions of the survival of Croats in BiH, aid to the victims of the war to members of the HVO, also helping students one of the priority needs of the Croats within BiH, but also BiH, which in this report is not well highlighted through cross-border cooperation programmes and through many situations of knowledge transfer and experience in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116117	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116118	Thank you, colleague Barbaric, so I think it is entirely justified for the Croats in BiH to be a priority for these development aids as well as for some other types of cooperation that we may still be able to work on. I was speaking in my own time about a demining report where there are also certain areas that need to be demined in BiH. I think that the Republic of Croatia through its membership in the EU, and based on the experience we still have because some of our areas are mined can help. So, apostrophe in one perhaps negative way that could be heard in certain discussions, development aid heading towards BiH, which is the goal of the survival of Croats in the area, I don't think it's good. So, topics should not be politicised but should show one unity and cohesion because we know unfortunately that Croats from certain parts of BiH are ethnically cleared. If Croatia won't Taking care of these remains, so I don't know what's going to happen in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116119	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski. Thank you, thank you very much, let's stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116120	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Petir, we all know that in 2020 it was a very difficult year for Croatia not only because of the pandemic but also because of the earthquake of the devastating, and yet Croatia has paid 516 million kuna and increased by 7.5%, so I think it has shown that it is both responsible and solid and effective and that it really has a vision in that part of this and that it is on the right path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116121	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116122	Thank you, colleagues of Buddinski, so you are absolutely right and I think that such an approach reflects what our people want and the mentality of our people because this has proved to be through a number of charity activities, humanitarian activities that within Croatia we organise where there is a need for solidarity we show this solidarity as a people. So it would be completely wrong to turn a blind eye to some phenomena that occur around the world, not to recognize them or react. In this sense, through its development aid, Croatia has put the greatest emphasis naturally on the position and improvement of the position of Croats in BiH in the countries of Southeast Europe, but has also recognised the needs of direct and concrete assistance in developing countries that are particularly affected by the war and the oppression of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116123	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Petir, as we have found in this debate, as very often, in these less popular formats, so to say and the topics found in foreign and European politics very often even some of us who have in some things very remote views can find common, some common ground. So this one, apart from the focus on bilateral co-operation, we could agree and we generally always advocated Macedonia's position and let's say now that we see it here, so it was relatively modest to be our bilateral help Macedonia. So I actually wanted to ask you here is an individual debate, it's one of your long-standing topics, how would you, for example, approach development cooperation and help Macedonia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116125	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116126	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic, 12 projects worth 702,000 kuna were intended for the Republic of Macedonia in 2020. Well, I think first of all we need to pay a little more attention to the Croats living in Macedonia. It seems to me that they have great potential and that these co-operations with Macedonia can be increased through them. We see that through technical assistance to the Central Bank of Macedonia we have helped as well as to preserve culture and cultural heritage, but here I would personally like to know exactly that long history of the European pathway of Macedonia that perhaps in the future we are focusing a little more on that country and see if we can help further. I see the minister was recently there, expressed clear support for Croatia and that is what I welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116127	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116128	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you have two concepts that mattered, transparency of the process and measurement of the results. Of course, it is important that we also see in this report the name and last name of each project, the amount, etc., and as regards the measurement of the results, of course we would like to see, in particular, what I find particularly interesting about the situation of the Croats in BiH far better and that there has been no such huge decline in the number of Croats in the period before the war and so far, when with 760,000 even 300,000 less. I also mentioned in the replica how the average Croat there can actually find out what projects to apply to. How an individual who lives hard can actually come and apply for some help. I expected my colleagues from the diaspora of our three to be here in an individual debate so I could communicate with them, and then I ask you, are you talking to them how many of our agents actually work in the field and give information to our citizens? The Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116129	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116130	Thank you, colleague Maric, so perhaps first I would like to clarify it is not Croatia's fault that the number of Croats in BiH is falling. So it is those institutions that are ineffective, which do not recognise the Dayton Agreement and which have led to this that the Croats are the constituent people mainly on paper or the institutions and the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH simply in their implementing acts and in reality do not follow what is the Constitution of BiH and that is the basic problem. Croatia has been doing everything it can, and you yourself are witnessing that it has often been objecting and on the left hand side, or on the left, that too much attention and too much money is being allocated to the Croats in BiH, but that the money has not been singled out, I ask you who would have stayed there in the first place. I know that our colleagues who are here are always out there communicating with the options that exist. As well as our State Office for Croats outside the country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116131	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state, have partly come forward because I think some concepts should be clarified as well as some concepts that have come up and boredom in the debate. I've tried a part of it when I had a replica of the secretary of state, but here I'm going to use these few minutes to maybe mention this question that may be too technical for the public but which has been mentioned several times in the debate, which is how it is recorded which is, which is, which doesn't belong to development aid. And in this respect, one criterion here I think was important, or one moment was important, which expanded the criteria for understanding development aid, which was to adopt a new UN 2030 agenda with strategic development objectives. The UN document has actually expanded the concept of what is state, which is official development aid. So it's not just helping to combat poverty, of course it stays at the heart of that effort, but it does, for example, go in there. Every project that promotes the rule of law, peace, security so that a whole big debate develops when some countries start reporting, and the OECD also accepts as development aid perhaps training some, for example, Armed forces in Africa that had to establish peace. So this is one debate that is being held in some European and international institutions, but the fact is that it has been accepted and accepted in the UN document and, of course, at OECD regional level or global level, the OECD has also accepted this, and they report their projects to the regional EU and EU members accordingly. That is what Croatia does, too, in order to display its projects in the same way. Another pair of also sleeves would be this question which is helping Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Part of it or a good part of it can also be displayed according to OECD rules as development aid, one part not. And it is a simple methodology that has been respected and thus also the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs shows these projects. I think, of course, that we are through debate, and I, too, have stressed in my replica the importance of starting, which is already done, but to continue and accelerate the potential pace of increasing bilateral aid because it is precisely the one that gives greater visibility and with, in some ways, fulfilling that function in an external political relationship that has developmental assistance as the kind of soft power of a country in, in establishing let's say one, one of its positions where it considers it strategically important. In this respect, of course, BiH is a priority country for us, and this is clearly and also seen from these figures. Of course, it is not the only development aid that creates and strengthens the soft power of a country, there are different cultural activities, trade exchanges, etc., but development aid is also important. Finally, I would say that, with this report, we have not only information on development aid projects but also humanitarian aid. It's two different concepts again. So we have a situation where we do not have development projects that will meet the 17 objectives that the UN has approved for its special 2030 resolution, but we also have a situation where it must be jumped in when one humanitarian disaster is and then Croatia is exactly the next principle of solidarity does so. Of course there are some criteria here, too. Of course, what happens, for example. in Albania, we are much closer to what some humanitarian disasters may occur around the world, but in accordance with these criteria, I think this report shows that Croatia and in the field of humanitarian aid show that it remains in line in principle and in the principle of solidarity. All in all, I think this report shows progress in our development and humanitarian aid and deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116133	And we have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116134	Thank you, Vice President. You know this problem well, you have been Minister of Foreign Affairs and I believe you know that Ukraine is a national strategy designated for the programme state and the Republic of Croatia has multiple and multi-annual development cooperation with it. I am interested in the context of the latest developments where Ukraine is exposed to Russian aggression, do you think that these funds that we are making for Ukraine's assistance will be sufficient and that there may be room for some other types of assistance and cooperation with what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already done, and we see that it has made great efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116135	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116136	Thank you. Dear fellow Petyr, of course we are now discussing the 2020 report, so before this Russian invasion of Ukraine that took place on 24 February this year. However, the scale of this destruction is unfortunately so great, but we can see it now, and we still don't know to what extent they will be to ask for much more funding. Of course, the EU will be invited to play an important role, but Croatia as a member of the EU must also take care of this because I am sure it will contribute in accordance with our capabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116137	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116138	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I would like to refer a little bit to this subject of development aid. So development aid is a topic where Croatia can position itself in the context of Europe as much closer to us, but also to the world who we are, who we want to be and where we want to go, so in our relationship with other countries, in some foreign policy, in some topic. I don't just read it from what you said to help who it is, but it's just this development aid that's where we tell us who the state is, that, that and that. I'm interested in some of the main points that you're reading that in the future should be given the experience that you've had as a foreign minister and given the experience that we can all agree that foreign policy lately is not exactly something that we could be very passionate about. According to what we want and what should we do in the future, what kind of, what kind of picture of Croatia do we want Croatia to go to Europe and the world?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116139	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116140	Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, development aid is one of the tools on which a country can implement its foreign policy. For example, the EU It gives 50% of the global development aid to European institutions, which individual Member States, and sometimes there may be no correlation with the importance that the EU then has on the international agenda as an international actor. Probably now and with a new European strategic compass, we'll improve that. Similarly, you may now be able to think about how to position Croatia in this context. A concrete answer to your question I think that the issue of restoration and reconciliation after a terrible war is exactly the area where Croatia has unfortunately developed a huge expertise, but in this area it can also be recognizable today to contribute to development aid in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116141	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116142	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Stier, here is this report taxing the sectoral priorities as well as national strategies, including the protection and empowerment of women. With this report read carefully, I have not come across anything special to this sectoral priority, I would not like to see these reports just declaratively brought into this assembly. I wish things were listed as priorities and realised, and if they weren't realized, they wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116143	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116144	Thank you very much, I think it's good that, if you pointed out this aspect that is one of the priorities that is in the strategy, it was also in the previous strategy if you asked me where, where I was as minister in charge of it. We are now entering a new period where the new strategy sets priorities, but this is exactly the priority that is rightly highlighted. And there were a number of projects that Croatia led, for example. in Afghanistan, right in support of girls to enable them to be educated and it seems to me that these are concrete, concrete projects. Of course, when we had a session and on the board where we could perhaps be more detailed than the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs heard and we could discuss it, but I agree that this is an important, important topic, that it must remain in the strategy and then, of course, concrete projects to show them in its report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116145	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116146	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague, official development aid determines a particular country in a position on other countries and Croatia should do its utmost to increase its share of the aid. What I would like to ask you is about bilateral assistance with, say, BiH and Serbia. So, if we go with bilateral help whether given the good part of BiH's underdevelopment, we will also be denied the Croats that are our priority, which is the same question for Serbia. Can we, in view of our development, help before a certain other population than the Croats who are our people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116147	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116148	Thank you so much for that question. In part, we discussed it when I tried to point out that there is a difference between this report, which is represented by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as regards development aid and then the second report that we are also discussing in this assembly, which is from, the Central State Office report for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. A good part of what the Central Office does is also shown in this report because, according to OECD rules, it can also be shown as development aid. Therefore, I don't think it should be doubted that Croatia will take care of the Croats as a constituent people in BiH or Croats as a minority in Vojvodina and Serbia. What I think is important is that in different other aspects, too, this relationship of bilateral co-operation for projects is strengthened. Developmental assistance where Croatia can and can do so [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Position and strengthen your soft powers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116149	Dear, distinguished representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116150	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Stier, here I am, too, and humanitarian aid is strong, and it is becoming more and more important because we see that humanitarian crises are increasingly devastating and that both material and human victims are being taken away. And I think that Croatia should also have a rapid reaction, not only to countries affected by the crisis but also to all members who are and whether they are in the neighbourhood or globally. And I think that Croatia has a lot of positioning itself there because we have shown that we are really humanitarian and yes, that we are to help and help regardless of our financial situation and no matter how small we are but that we are a very solidarity state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116151	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116152	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very I think you've actually touched a very important topic, and that may be a termological but it has its own meaning. And that's that we actually talk more or we should talk about development cooperation, not so much about help. Why? Because exactly what you said, what happens especially in our neighborhood, but also in the globalized world and what happens continues to affect us, affects our security. And in this context, the development cooperation and then the funds that we invest in it is precisely one investment in our own safety. Of course we do so in order to also in these environments where we will invest these funds and improve the situation, but the effect of that will naturally be on us, and in this respect I think we too must change the terminology from what we called development aid in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116153	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stier with this last thing you said was actually what you agreed on, but somewhat and not because of course there's help no, I mean it's necessary. The ideal situation is where we can talk more about cooperation, but somewhere we really need help, after the earthquake, we mentioned these and other examples. But actually on the trail of that, that last comment of yours that you would, so how would you be in the shortest lines because a minute is a little time for that, the one that you would set your priorities. So in order to focus our development or development aid strategy and cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116155	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116156	Yes, thank you, dear colleague. When it comes to humanitarian disaster, it is clear that we are talking about humanitarian aid and there is absolutely no doubt about it. I've been having this debate about us using maybe a better terminology of co-operation to think about these very developmental projects. Of course there are also elements to help but perhaps focus should be in cooperation because it is also useful not only for those who may receive these funds but also for donors if the plan is well designed. As far as this second part of your question is concerned, I think the fields that are highlighted here, and they are partly continuing on the strategy that has been adopted, and while I was also Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, I am well-complexed. We can talk about whether these projects should be developed more and whether perhaps this segment of bilateral projects in the overall development aid should be strengthened. That's where I agree, and I think Yes, sectoral well-assembled as it is today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116157	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116158	Thank you. Well, here's fellow Stier you are, I think you know this field as well as the general field of foreign policy. It really seems to me that, in terms of development aid, there is a lack of strategic orientation and concentration actually in certain areas and that development aid is not actually used now as an instrument for strengthening the influence of the Republic of Croatia in those areas where we can strengthen this impact. I am specifically talking about the region and the issue of EU accession. This issue is not only a question of the impact and implementation of our foreign policy but is also a question of expanding our economic activity, our companies where we have development aid. In this report there is nothing about how much our economic operators participate in the implementation of development aid and what concrete benefit for the Croatian economy, and we know that all, absolutely all the countries with development aid are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116159	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116160	Yes, thank you very much for that question. The impact is, of course, limited, limited or defined by the means you invest. So the more resources you have at your disposal, the more you invest, the more your influence may be if you invest wisely. The fact is, even though we're showing almost half a billion here, but as we've previously established a smaller part of it is for bilateral projects. That is why we have repeatedly pointed out this regardless of party membership, but this is the same reality as our budget today and as much as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs can invest in this particular area, but it is a matter of concern. The economy certainly has, for example, an example. as was ours, our participation in the mine action fund in Colombia, later some companies benefited from it, but it is not shown in these reports not only in Croatia but anywhere because it is not direct link may be so important [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It is indirect although of course it is very important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116161	Thank you very much. Let's go to the final presentations and first the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, and the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116162	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, this development aid theme is very important to us in the Green-Left Block Club because, because we believe that in fact several foreign policy objectives can actually be achieved through it, and that we can certainly strengthen our influence through development aid in those areas where we can actually do so, and that is the region. When we look at the structure of this report and we look at the development aid structure of what we actually see, and especially in this relationship, 76% goes to the multilateral, and only a small part of the bilateral we see that we don't really have a clear vision and strategy on what development aid should be served. We believe that this relationship between multilaterals and bilaterals should be reversed because, through both bilateral and bilateral agreements, bilateral aid therefore strengthens the influence of a country. What we need to focus on and how we see the development policy of the Republic of Croatia or the development cooperation policy is to see it in a way that it is one of the key levers for the positioning of Croatia in the Balkans in the leaders of European integration of all those countries that should be on the European path, which are not yet or only partially. Croatia must be the one that not only the EU but also the countries of the region will see as the door to EU entry and which directly helps their capacities not only in terms of technical assistance and exchange but also civil society on that path to EU accession. I will tell you that are precisely some other countries and these small countries also worked in the Republic of Croatia when we were not yet a member of the EU. And it was very clear what their strategy for Croatia, which kinds of projects support, who their stakeholders are, so that Croatia would eventually end up on that European path. And I'd really like to see that we have a concept like that. In particular, I believe that our development aid should have two focusses in the region. One aid is either development cooperation in EU accession, where the economic component should not be ignored. And it is indeed regrettable that many of our consulting companies working on EU funds and working to join the EU with our own, but also in other countries outside the region, today are not the key holders of technical assistance in the region but are still some other countries, and we should have been. To speak of the role our consulting companies together with our state administration should have in helping with Chapter 23. We need a second focus to be a green transition. We need to become a leader in the region in the green transition to focus projects on renewable energy sources. Why? Because apart from positioning ourselves and strengthening our influence in these countries on this important issue for the EU, we are also opening the market for our companies. And that's what matters. So the economic co-operation that comes later is not an essential element of development cooperation. And not to lie, every country that has development cooperation makes it very clear to you in grant contracts and donations that companies from which countries can compete for contracts by these grants. Here I wish we had that kind of access. I would like us to build solar power plants under development assistance across the Balkans. I'd like to maybe give it a chance to finally have some hydrocenter made somewhere and be made by our companies that have some previous knowledge and capacity about it. I would like us to have such projects and Croatia to strengthen its influence through this, not to give money to small projects that actually do not have that impact. Croatia can and must become a key factor and stability in the region through development cooperation, as well as a key factor in the accession of the entire EU region. And we have missed a great opportunity that we have not yet been seen as the leaders of this process, but rather that process leads on to some other country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116163	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Radoje Vidovic, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116164	... MEPs here today are considering the Development Assistance Report for the Republic of Croatia for 2020. [[Specially enabled.]] When we consider this, we should always bear in mind that 30 years ago Croatia went through a severe aggression in which it suffered enormous human and material damage, and only at that time was the recipient of humanitarian and any other aid. We also need to bear in mind that during this most difficult period for the Republic of Croatia, Croatia provided great assistance primarily to refugees from BiH. If we look at this report, we see that it was done and that in 2020 it was based on the Development Assistance Act, based on the strategy, and I don't think that anyone here has at least heard that anyone has any objections to the priorities of sectoral, peace, stability, economic sustainable development, dignity of every person. If we look at project areas we have to say almost prophetic is the project area affected. Today, when we speak from the 2022 visa at the time of Russia's aggression on Ukraine, we see that one of the project areas in which Croatia was providing assistance is Ukraine and unfortunately we can say that others recognized this area as an important area, that they were giving greater assistance perhaps today the situation in Ukraine would not be as it is today. With regard to the project area related to neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Serbia, and the Southeast European countries of Montenegro, this Kosovo, Albania and Northern Macedonia, I think that the project area has been hit greatly, and we can also stress this from this vision because without the peace, stability and progress of this region, without its involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration, it is certain that every other future and Croatia itself is questionable. If we look at the very structure of this report we see that we can practically talk about the effects of only this part that refers to direct investment of assistance to the Republic of Croatia to individual countries. To talk about the effects of this second part... We should have full reports of all these organizations to see exactly where the funds were spent and that would take a lot more time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just like to look back because, due to the shortness of time related to the effects of this development aid, this is about BiH and these areas of Montenegro. I'll do it specifically for BiH. And I would not agree here with my colleague Glavasevic that this should not be treated as BiH's development aid. Any assistance from the health care home in BiH, the hospital, the school is not only for the Croats of BiH but for the whole of BiH. I come from central Bosnia where the people of Croatia and the Bosniaks are really still mixed up, and above all, there are Serbs and every service they use in their homes of health, in hospitals, in schools, in roads, it is a help to all residents and central Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you need to observe it in that light. I'd also like to look back here a little bit on the question of the transparency of spending these funds and the effects of that. I'd just like to invite a parliamentary delegation to form one delegation once so we can pick a few projects at random or whatever we want, so let's see what the effects are. Here, I specifically speak about schooling, kindergartens, homes of health, and there are the effects of this population. I would also like to refer to this transparency of publishing these competitions. As far as I know, and I know because I'm following everything, all of this grant is granted by public tendering. Public tenders are published, the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and all Croatian-language portals in BiH publishes and competitions. It is also practically all the municipal pages of the publication of the competition, so I think that whoever is interested should be informed, and of course it is up to all of us to inform those who are not able to in this way inform and assist them in the application. Here I am taking on myself, I spoke with my colleague and thanked here for the interest of one positive for BiH that I would take additional steps for me and my colleague, Barbaric, to further inform about all these projects. Here is finally this hope that the next strategy will include priority areas which are... IMOST colleagues related to Latin America and that this assistance will increase significantly and that Croatia will reach this projected target of 0.33% of GDP before 2030. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I once again say on behalf of HDZ, the HDZ Club, yes, we support this report and only to continue in the coming period at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116165	Dear Representative Glavasevic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116166	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will call on Article 238, but I will also accept your notice after that. I just wanted to tell the truth, so to remind you that we were talking about how to book funds for the Croats in BiH and the sentences I said were of course necessary, but not recorded in this way. So that's the only point. Here's just in the interest of the truth and I accept the warning in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116167	Of course you'll get this one, okay. And now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116168	Dear MPs and MPs, colleagues before me pointed out in the debate that they hoped the ministry would understand and accept these constructive remarks, which is that they as a ministry should not only be evidences of spent funds. I agree with that, but I think our arrow criticism should be raised to a higher level. In fact, it is not the main issue of the bookmaking process and whether the ministry is following in the display of spent funds some fictional methodology with which they are being justified all day, but the main issue is the main issue and the main problem of who is and how has defined priorities. It seems to me that this report as well as a whole series of other documents confirm and prove again that Croatia is simply far away from functional democracy. We are not actually a country that has built up as a project until the end, and this is repeated from one government to another, regardless of whether the government is red or blue. The problem is that we do not function as it is written in the provisions of the Constitution and the law, and this is indeed becoming a bigger and bigger problem. In a built state where democracy works, there must be control of the government and we must have a model of how to define whether half a billion kuna funds have been spent on purpose and in line with the objectives set. And here we come to the very essence, and the fact that the goals don't actually exist. The constitution stipulates that foreign policy is co-created, co-created between the government and the president of the state. We haven't seen this cocreation, but never since it was a Croatian state. We can't have any development aid, we can't have foreign political priorities, we can't have goals if we don't even know who they are, and even if we do, because there's a government forming them in accordance with its political needs, and it's not acceptable since the Constitution says something else. And the fact that every time we discuss such reports, we deny that basic fact means that we deny the state as such. We're on a low-resistance line. It's easier to simply accept that the report can be delayed and nothing can happen to anyone. We can accept the fact that now in 2022 there is only some kind of National Development Assistance Strategy for the period 2017 to 2021, so there is currently some kind of spending of funds on what, who, how, is something nobody asks. Once again, we will receive a future report with a delay and we will again argue that HDZ spent funds in this period in line with its party needs. And this half-billion kuna on an annual basis treats as some state bank pig for its goals from BiH to Pakistan. So the first time it's possible, I think we should just start from the beginning. However we know to sit down to the president of the state and the government at the table, to say what the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia is, at least in three sentences, that every citizen of ours can kind of understand, and then put on some of the papers that we want to achieve in some five-year or ten-year development, and that plan is to be defined accordingly and to define the amount of funds we will make for each of these objectives and implement. And then come up with some sort of control time, whether it's half a year, if it's three months in which the competent parliamentary committees and the parent working bodies will ask the government if everything that's been imagined is being carried out as it's written somewhere. And only then will we have a system of reporting that would serve some excess purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-17-0.u116169	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning after this brief break we had. I hope you're all, I can see that some are sunbathing, some are less sunbathing. I hope you've all rested a little before we begin to present the position of club representatives based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives suggest that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points, which is the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 279. And Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 280. Are you agreeing to spend so unitedly? No one's against it, as far as I can tell. Mrs. Kristo's against it, so we'll vote. But we can only vote with the current composition. Let's go backwards. So, please tell me who's against it because I think everyone else is for it? Mrs. Kristo is against, the rest are all for, then if you agree we'd have a united discussion about it.
