ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102788	4th debate, dear colleague Vrkljan on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102789	President, colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing an outrageous public argument and mutual accusations by the head of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the Republic of Croatia. Today, in 2022, when we are in a difficult economic crisis that has only further progress on the damage of Croatian citizens, when the emigration of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia continues, when we have experienced a demographic breakdown, when the ministers leave us as on the tape from the Government and when there is a great war in the territory of Ukraine on the subject of political action in Croatia is who says it is the consecrated or heir to the collapse of totalitarian ideology. The question arises where is civil Croatia. Where is Croatia that has entered the EU and should inherit its system of values, where Croatia, which won politically in '91 and military '95, is Croatia. A year? There is no civil Croatia, it has disappeared from public space, and the democratic system is clearly choking. 30 years after '91. as a turning year, heavy accusations are being made in public space from the highest political positions and from people and politicians who should be or are best informed in the Republic of Croatia. Thus Milanovic accuses Plenkovic of being from the Pristina family and of being with Perkovic and Mustac, while at the same time Plenkovic condemns Milanovic as being a Russian spy and doing serious damage to the Republic of Croatia, both in the EU and NATO. Either way, it's a serious crime scene. Unfortunately, the institutions of the repressive apparatus in the Republic of Croatia are silent. What's the question? Today, the Republic of Croatia is a heavily divided country, a heavily divided society in which the people are on one side, and on the other side of the political interest-ideological group that occupied the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And I would say that this is not a conflict between Plenkovic and Milanovic, it is not a conflict of different policies, for me it is a conflict on the left. In 2006, EU Council Resolution 1481 points. 13 in the 1st month says that all countries that have come out of communism must re-examine their communist past, and also, that they must unequivocally distance themselves from the crimes committed in the name of communism at that time. It also raises the question whether there is an official and strong indication that Milanovic and Plenkovic really are what they are accusing each other of and there are serious doubts. In fact, Milanovic undisputedly supports certain structures, such as Dodig, with its BiH policy damages the interest of the Croatian people, also, its action internationally where now it attacks Finland and Norway can only be brought to its senses under the protection of the western borders of the Serbian world, in this case, the Russian world. Also, Plenkovic, when looking at his staff solutions over the past six years, undisputedly shows that Plenkovic uses his pool of personnel exclusively from the former communist system. Therefore, in light of this political situation in the Republic of Croatia and the severe global crisis and war in Ukraine where we may be on the verge of a new world war, on behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia, I call on all parliamentary parties to engage in a debate on how to change the Constitution and laws and to clearly define the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the president of the Republic of Croatia in the first place, defence, security and foreign policy. The Parliament must take this historic role and its responsibility. The goal must be a functional state and the well-being of the Croatian people. Otherwise, we, as parliamentary representatives, are passing silently through a blow to the very foundations of the Croatian state. We need new ideas, we need new policies, we need new people. This model of conduct has been permanently spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102853	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ante Deur, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102854	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and fellow MPs, allow today's speech to begin with the question of what is expensive or much about children? Unfortunately, it is not news that Croatia is demographically old or that the government headed by President Andrej Plenkovic is making great efforts to stop the trend. At that time, a decision is made in the capital that paves the way for the growth of the poverty of families with more children. The Zagreb Authority felt that the measure "Parent-gatherer" did not result in positive demographic effects and that it creates high financial expenditure for the city budget. For these reasons, the City Hall made a decision four months ago to amend the criteria or abolish the help of parents to educators. Let me visit how 5,808 users are actively using this measure and it includes nearly 20,000 children. This attempt to radically cut the rights of parents to educators in Zagreb is a step in the wrong direction, which can result in child poverty growth in a large number of families. It is obvious that Mayor Tomasevic does not care or that he treats the citizens he estimated not to be his voters. In light of these facts, I will repeat the question, what is it expensive or much about our children? A happy decision by the High Administrative Court on the suspension of Tomasevic's decision to abolish the "Parent raiser" measure is a clear message to the mayor, his social insensitivity to the harm of families with more children is illegal. In the campaign, Tomašević was thrown out with great promises, and in the end, his first decision was to experience children or discrimination against families with more children who used the measure "Parent raiser". The mayor in public has never presented the truth, and she is that the measure has brought a 30% increase in the birth of a third child so it cannot be said that it has not won the result. Let us hope that the decision of the High Administrative Court will help him to understand how laws must be respected and that they cannot be abolished just because someone likes them. Mr. Mayor, take responsibility for these proceedings and decisions. It is time to stop jeopardizing Zagreb's students, teachers and parents, and after 11 months in power, you finally start doing your job. Understand how investing in children is an investment in the future. I was talking about my Councils, and I'm going to repeat, the Councils with its surroundings a young demographic environment and the largest city district that has been neglected by local authorities for years. The worlds have so far few kindergartens and private, but also those the city needs to make in due course. Many of these kindergartens do not have adequately equipped rooms and an insufficient number of quality educated staff. Is that an investment in the future? Citizens of Sesveta have long lost confidence in this government in Zagreb not only for demographic policy but also for waste storage in the Kraljevac Sesvetsko, the environment of forests and water streams and access roads. Mayor, if you're planning a new threat to the Council or if you realize that activists are one thing, the behavior of power is another. On the occasion of Planet Earth Day, you've been cleaning the area around the Sesvetski Kraljev channel, I'm glad you can, just don't do PR cleaning streams, pull out a child's cart, because your proposal for a decision is a clear indicator of what you think about multi-member families. Learn harder what it means to revise a decision. The voice of the Holy One will be heard not only through me in the assembly, but through every voter in the Sesvets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102855	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Pavliček. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102856	The Honorable Chairman. I agree with him that Mayor Tomašević really misjudged and did not invest in the future, and it is embarrassing that he cherished the culture of death, but you, or your government, have rejected my amendment to the 2022 budget. where I asked for a measure to be imposed by a mother breeder for the entire state, so that's exactly what the HDZ did at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102857	Okay, thank you very much, and it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am asking you nicely now not only to lift the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that have nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure during the debate but it began with a very dangerous precedent that even during what is called free speech, the damages of the Rules of Procedure are beginning to rise, and these are not so. I'm asking you not to do it, I'm asking you nicely not to do it. We have rules of procedure to act on him, I have to act on him, you have to act on him, and for as long as we have him, we have to act on him. In a similar way that you will not go through the red light at the intersection, but you will stand on the green side, whether the empty street and the left and right still have to stop, so I ask you nicely not to do it. We began to abuse it to great lengths during the debate, and now this is indeed a precedent that, during the free speech of the so-called so-called, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that they are not. Don't do that. I'm asking you nicely. I suggest you give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102858	Your Honor, Vice President. ...excuse and thank you for everything that comes next. 238th Insultation of MPs. [[Intruder Reiner: Ha well.]] Dear colleague, you are once again giving support to one activism We can, I respect that, but it seems to me that you are like one association or party a little executed since Zekanovic left you and now you're getting along in the meantime whether this is the time that comes to approach and we can or the principles that were not Yours is a little bit forgotten. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102859	Thank you very much. And that, of course, is a violation of the rules of procedure, so please don't do that. You're getting a warning, of course, because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're looking again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102860	Yeah, I'm looking for a violation of Rule 238. Comrade Deur falsely accuses that we support some left-wing liberal activism. I have made it clear that I am opposed to the culture of death that our colleagues in WE CAN cherish and abolish such measures. But unfortunately, these are precisely the measures you did not accept at the state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102861	Okay, well, that had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course. You're getting a second warning. Think about it. You know what your third warning is, you won't be able to speak anymore, so think about it. [[Attack Bauk: He won't be able to speak until the end of this point, and it's just the end of the point.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u102980	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the government recently announced a measure of choosing Croatia in which they offer 200 thousand kuna to those who return from abroad and start a business here. Thousands of people were expected to accept the offer, but according to the Employment Service, 16 people have reported so far. 11 of these reports is the internal migration of moving between cities within Croatia, so there are only 5 interested returnees from abroad. Out of the millions of people you've driven out of Croatia in the last 30 years, only 5 have accepted your offer. The media asked people in Ireland, Iceland if they'd come back for that money the short answer was no. They say what they did in the short term out there wouldn't have worked in the country. It only took me one year in Iceland to make enough credit for my apartment. Returning back would only be possible under some conditions, but which we have here while living in Iceland says the Croat in Iceland. You wanted to bribe those you drove away, bribe them to come home because that's the only way you can work, bribe people, but it turned out very quickly that they don't want your money. Those who left Croatia fled HDZ. They don't trust you, you can't buy them the money you took away from them anyway because you took away the quality jobs you set up for your fake doctors. You don't hold them in your hand, so I can tell you this way to get off their backs. You're the winner of the bargaining, corruption, competitions. You have betrayed all that valuable and ethical in this society. You reward obedience to the damages of competence, industriousness, sacrifice. You mock the knowledge, the van to the doctors, you mock the real entrepreneurs by guessing at millions of birth contests that don't have any employees in fictitious companies. Who would go back to a country like that? Why would they go back to Croatia if those 200,000 kunas ate your taxes and taxes. 600 parafiscal burdens that you burden entrepreneurs with, you don't let them breathe. You took their future because you turned the country into one where only party-like people profited, in which a party card is more important than knowledge and experience. In that state where ministers become only the ones with the property of a suspicious origin. But there's good news in this. The drop began to drill the stone with which you bound the entire state and will drill it with a persevering drip that will eventually turn into force and break it to the end. Luckily, you're the past. Your splinters are drying out. They're dropping your last drops. You are sentenced to disappear, and that will finally happen in all the next election domino effect. Without you, Croatia will be a country of equal people and equal opportunities for all. And they will return to their country when they read in the distant world that HDZ is missing. HDZ's disappearance will be the biggest demographic measure in Croatia's newest history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103062	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103063	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Today, we are on the agenda The final proposal of the Early and Preschool Law. I will try to tell you how to solve the lack of room in kindergartens and what happens when the founder takes a firm stand that no child can remain below the line. The story takes place in the city of the fourth largest in the Republic of Croatia, and the explanation on the above gave its head and bearded itself the mayor of Osijek. Last year, after taking office, we couldn't expressly solve this problem by building new kindergartens, but we did absolutely anything that could be solved as soon as possible to increase this capacity, so in some kindergartens we used the existing halls, and we redeployed home apartments that existed in kindergartens to ensure that no one was below the line. From halls, apartments, extra spaces were created by the living room of children under very questionable safety and quality in the city of Osijek. The movement of children and physical activity is important for healthy adulthood, but the founders seem to be more important. We agree that every child has the right to kindergarten, but to a quality and safe kindergarten. Do you know how many children are in these groups? You know, there's only one tutor working with them on shift. The kindergartens are not a childcare service while the parents are at work, but are places that promote healthy psychosocial growth and the development of children in whom children are socialised, educated and raised. In such conditions as I have previously stated, this is what is happening. On April 11th, 2022, enrolment took place in Osijek's kindergartens, and for this reason, Mayor Radic made an important announcement of new security places for them, even 181. However, since we are very well acquainted with the capacities of our kindergartens as well as with all the other problems in the preschool education system that we meet daily and what we have already talked about, I cannot help but ask myself and justifiably show concern about which, where and what vacancy our mayor is talking about. I'm afraid that de facto will lead to the legalization of the situation by one educator of 35 children and further downsizing of the working conditions of our employees throughout the system. The number of children in groups is already too large because the state pedagogical standard is not respected, and the accommodation capacity is too low. Only in the city of Osijek is there a minimum of 5 kindergartens missing. So far, the situation in kindergartens is chaotic. Breeders work under conditions that are inhuman. According to the DPS, you have to have eight to ten scavengers, and you have them at 25. That's not working, that's where the day comes down to surviving and preserving common sense after working hours, wondering if the kids got home happily in a piece, no injuries. It is necessary to provide a space of five square meters per child of the manger age. We have an example of a manger group in almost every kindergarten where 25 children are pushed into 30 square meters with one grower on shift. It's extreme, and 26 children in the jazz group are no longer extreme but very common. Many wonder as I do, as a kindergarten parent, that there are no more accidents because children are constantly left unsupervised adults. With the newly announced groups, the situation will fully escalate. In other EU countries, you have one breeder for about nine children, and we have one for about 25. Obviously, it's going to change by now, so we're going to have one at about 35. We can conclude that our beloved kindergartens are provided with less space than prisoners in prisons. Instead of pursuing above standard, our children don't even have the standard that we have to allow them. Every child deserves kindergarten as a safe and stimulating environment for learning and development. The announced reorganisation will provide perhaps 181 places more than last year, but under even worse conditions than now that they are employed in a system that is already on the very edge invisible, ignored in its cry for help, in improving working conditions. So also for our children who will be left to the good will of a teacher not to be just objects to be guarded while parents are at work. Security and quality must be imperative. From this pay phone as a parent once again, I ask you not to neglect, discriminate and take care of our children. The announced reorganisation is not a solution but a bad decision that will have long-term consequences for all participants. What we don't need is a quality law that gives a satisfied child plus a satisfied parent, plus a satisfied worker. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103108	Let's move on with the debate, now it's the club of representatives of the Mosta and respected colleague Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103109	Today it's so-called. Trapper Day, a day that supports victims of sexual violence by wearing a trapper that reminds them of an Italian rape case from '98. when a 45-year-old instructor raped his 18-year-old student in the first hour of driving. He ended up in prison, but the Italian Supreme Court released him with an explanation that the jeans were so tight that the only way to get rid of them was to have a girl help him by making such a sexual act agreeable. This very explanation in a tragic way unequivocally points to the position of the victim of sexual violence. Conviction of the public, questioning her behavior, alibi for the perpetrator, she asked for it herself. And to ask the victim what she was looking for, her yes or no will give a clear answer and that's all she needs. The Committee on Gender Equality marks this day by wearing a trapper, and I will look back on the situation in Croatia when we talk about sexual violence, but it is immediately necessary to mention the biggest problem, which is that this is exactly how the victim's treatment leads to violence in large numbers not being reported at all, so it is difficult to assess exactly how many victims of sexual violence we really have. The latest MUP comparative analysis in 2020 compared to 2021. shows a 15% increase in rape, infractions by 172% and sexual harassment by 63%. The issue of sexual harassment has just been attributed to the "I didn't ask for it" initiative last year, and now we see an increase in applications. So, only when social conditions were created were the victims come out with their story. As we see trends are not good, the basic question for us today is what we can do to deal with sexual violence mainly in educational institutions. Studies show that two thirds of students and students do not know what to do and who to report in the event of sexual violence. I therefore propose an initiative to establish a clear protocol, and I have proposed before that it would allow students and students to already know and in what way the law protects them and who they can contact if they are victims of sexual harassment or violence. You can do it in a simple brochure. Furthermore, the Labour Act art. The 134th regulation states that in any collective where at least 20 employees are required to appoint a person who is authorised to receive and resolve complaints relating to the dignity of workers. But the question is, how many employers have introduced workers to such a possibility and whether the victims are familiar with their rights and what the court bang for insisting on repeating the spell makes them truly condemning the violent. The fact that the number of anonymous reports is growing shows that victims do not feel they have institutional protection, therefore they are also seeking to establish clear protocols that will oblige the institution to provide support to victims at the moment when most necessary and to create an over-needed atmosphere of security. But I want to look back on another dramatic problem that goes past the public eye. The case itself gets even more weight if we're considering that it's a girl who's just turned 18, so someone who was a child until yesterday. In today's parliamentary debate, we will talk a lot about children's rights, parallel statistics in 2020 compared to 2021. reveals the devastating figures that are completely unknown to the public, official MUP statistics. The crimes against sexual abuse and child abuse, sexual abuse of children under the age of 15 years has increased by as much as 74% from 235 to 411 cases, the satisfaction of a child under 15 years of age by 62%, the cheating of children to meet the sexual needs of 33%, and the exploitation of children for pornography, which I have warned in the past pandemic years of an additional 20%. These official M.O.P.s leave the data untexted. So I ask the following question in the infidelity of the Assembly Speaker, do we have in Croatia an explosion of pedophilia that passes beneath the radar and what do competent institutions do to prevent them? If official numbers are like this, and because of the pandemic of schools as well as the good part of socializing for most years did not work normally, so the children were not available to those who could recognize the signs of abuse, what are only real figures? My appeal today is unequivocal, we create a system together that will Indeed, they can protect women and children not only by legal procedures [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] but also in practice, and this begins with self-recognition of the problem. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103287	We are going to the third debate of colleagues Pavliček on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103288	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. The shaking hills were born of a mouse, this is how we could describe the announced reconstruction of the government that is due to take place this Friday. Andrej Plenkovic is definitely a political recordr by the number of ministers who were in his two governments. Through the first government, the opposition believed or not as many as 35 ministers, 15 were resolved, one part because of the Bridge quota being one on a personal request, and the rest due to numerous affairs, nepotism, clientelism and suspected corruption. So let's just remember some names Lovro Kuščević, Goran Maric, Gabriela Zalac, Tomislav Tolusic, Martina Dalic, Milan Kujundzic, Pavo Barisic continues this series in the current government by leaving Minister Darka Horvat who was arrested for corruption, and two ministers are already in front of the exit return, that is Minister Aladrovic, also because, under suspicion of corruption and DORH investigations, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic and the question of all questions is who is next? Very likely Minister Paladino who hasn't even taken over the resort, but rather his property is combing DORH. It is very easily possible that he too will be relieved of his duties in a few weeks. It just shows that Andrej Plenkovic either has no quality fit or chooses badly, or what is the worst, corrupt people because we cannot explain to ourselves that so many ministers in 6 years leave the government of the Republic of Croatia because of suspicion of corruption. In the six years of Ivo Sanader's rule, fewer ministers left the government than in the six years of Andrej Plenkovic's rule, and Ivo Sanader, we all know he was a synonym of political corruption. And according to the latest Transparency International data that came out at the end of January 2022 as regards the corruption perception index, Croatia ranks 63th with only 47 of the potential 100 points. What's worse, Croatia stagnates or falls on this scale. In front of us is one Rwanda, one Georgia, one Botswana, butan and a series of other countries, not to mention Western European countries. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia and its former ministers have contributed to this poor rating. In fact, it's always said fish stink from the head, not tail. We don't know much about potential new ministers, but we do know one thing, and that's what came out in public last night, that the new Deputy Prime Minister will be SDSS's Anja Chimpraga, who was celebrated here in HS with a hearty free speech about how she had to leave her native Knin for military-reding action of the Storm, so the numerous media have stood by her side, and that same Anja Chimpraga has not honored to condemn the recent incidents that took place on the Orthodox Easter in Knin, where the posters that enlarge the parade of SAO Krajina, which the Chettic Dukes are celebrating, and that same Anja Shimpraga, in all cases, will sit in the chair of the vice-president of the Government of Croatia. Long live Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103369	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are starting to take a stand, first in line today's respected colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103370	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. He'd start out the following way, here are some symptoms that can identify cocaine addicts, often sniffing, hyperactivity, senseless euphoria, dilated pupils, a coke-attracted junkie has developed an extraordinary sense of deception and a lie of every kind. That's why if a person isn't well-smelled with cocaine, we'll find it hard to recognize the symptoms of drug use, etc., etc. I was walking around Pantovchak yesterday, it was quite a nice day, and I found this somewhere in the middle of Pantovich. It's exactly what you think it is, so inside it is exactly what you think it is. I'll repeat, I found this yesterday afternoon in Pantovichka. I call on Minister Bozinovic this way, the MUP means the Anti-Trafficking Service to deal with this, let the devices do reconnaissance on Pantovac, since we have this on Pantovac. Now he would tell another story, and this other story is about a guy named Zoran, and this Zoran grew up in one concrete skyscraper on the 15th floor in New Zagreb, and often in his living room he would light up "Hero Street", glue his nose to a window window and watch his peers have fun on the street. But he didn't do his homework and his father and mom, and Mom and Dad wouldn't let him out on the street. However, it was over and that period he got his hands on prom, he smoked weed there, which he later admitted to the media in a laudable manner, so I began to do drugs, and that gentleman later entered politics, even became president of a party, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, became president of our country, and I will say unfortunately because he was not my candidate, he became president of the state. It's a character who today in a situation where a Finland, one Sweden, here I'm going to be concrete in Finland, and it's very much fearing for its existence, and when it's looking for every possible way to save a living head he's threatening Finland with crazy ideas. But he's not the only one, he's not the only one. And it is not only like Putin on his crazy ideas, which today quotes the Prime Minister, pardon the president of the Croatian state. He's also supported by friends from the Bridge. A fellow member of the Rasdic, who, in his own time, called the new Tudjman, says today it is a good idea to block Finland's entry into NATO. This way I call my colleagues from the SDP, from We can from that left-green-red bloc whatever his name is, whose candidate he was, let them say today what they think of him. They supported him at the time when he and his first deputy prime minister, Vesna Pusic, spoke of Croatia having committed aggression against BiH, supported him when dissipating Croatian defenders to Pendreds in St. Mark, they supported him when he introduced that cheating Life Partnership Act. Where are they today? Today, as far as I can see, the only colleagues from the Bridge who were actually in Lisinski two years ago were yelling "Skoro," "Skoro," and today they're supporting Zoki. So, the thing here is extremely clear, the two facts are, first let's examine this allegation of mine, and on the other hand, let the parliamentary parties whose candidate he was for the president also be manifested, even if his swearings, swearing to the most Augusting ones we heard on television yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103371	We have one injury from my colleague, Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103372	Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies is not everyone's political goal of running into the embrace of Andrej Plenkovic on the parliamentary stairs, some of us also have goals that maintain key Croatian foreign policy goals, which is to protect the rights of Croats in BiH. And as for the description of the consumption of this flour that you brought to HS, that lucidity, hyperactivity and the ability to lie to me is a strange reminder of the speaker who just came down from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103373	You're getting a warning from colleague Selak Rasdic, this was a replica. But a colleague of Zekanovic's will also seek damage to his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103374	Dear colleagues, Selak Raspadic. I have to repeat several facts here for the Croatian public once again, so art. 238, of course. The first fact that I am in opposition, however, is an academic opposition, not an even-earth opposition. For me, the country is round, for you the land is a flat plate, you are the equidistant with a degree. Another important fact, your party, Andrej Plenkovic, has driven you out of the coalition and you would still be in a coalition with Andrej Plenkovic if he hadn't chased you. I left him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103375	Your colleague Zekanovic and you are being warned also this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 5th debate, dear colleague Prkacin on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103396	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. If I hadn't received this piece of paper 20 minutes ago, I would have dedicated my free speech to my colleagues Zekanovic and parts of Vrkljan, however, because today at 15 hours in our time a global conference is being held in the United States where the main star, the Serbian Orthodox Church, and the first speaker, therefore, is from 18 states, and the first speaker is President of the Serbian Orthodox Church Bojan Jovanovic, who will talk about some other indisputables of which the Serbian Orthodox Church is full, so I will keep myself on what I said last time when I asked the prime minister of the Serbian Orthodox Church that I received the answer, and this time I was not satisfied with the answer, but there was a mass of comments, I often repeat that we do not have a more persistent and insidious enemy than the Serbian Orthodox Church. Gentlemen, I've been making this argument here, and I've been quoting parts of Valerian's memo that started in the 6th month. '41. Sir, when Yugoslavia fell apart and there are still no war events in Yugoslavia, the two centres of Serbia's most important policies are meeting in Belgrade at the moment. One is led by Stevan Moljević, a memo-maker for Homogenea Serbia, and the other is at the Museum of the Serbian Orthodox Church. They devise the best and most qualitative lies they will benefit from achieving their political goals and thus the Valerian memorandum they first called Dunkelmanov because it is the name of a German general who was the commander of Serbia and who first received the memorandum. So the memorandum states that before any clashes in the former state, that an eye was killed, first 100,000 Serbs, and then, after 20 days, they go with a new memorandum, 180, to finish with 360 thousand killed Serbs. I quoted you here as saying that in Lapca, Croatian Ustashas killed all Serbs, that no one was left alive, and in '48. For more than 10,000 Serbs, and only 134 because the Croats were killed and massacred, it is the same for Clay, it applies to the Bosnian Krupa, it applies to the Drvar, it applies to all the places in the team, at the time the most critical and wariest places. Furthermore, the president directs me to two or two ministers because for me when there are two, there are two, and when one is a woman and another is a man, then there are two ministers. At the Minister of Culture and Minister of Administration and Justice, they would explain something to me about my demands and my vision of the Serbian Orthodox Church. So I can't talk to people mentioned by the Croatian Orthodox Church, they look like they're involved in electricity from fear. Well, you know, gentlemen, what happened in '42? Sir? Well, Pavelic had written ministers. They knew the canon of Orthodoxism. And in accordance with the canon of Orthodoxism, founded the Croatian Orthodox Church, which was recognised in the world within 3 months. She even received recognition, former president, the case, she received recognition from the Serbian Orthodox Church because Gavrilo Dozic, the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, recognised the Croatian Orthodox Church. That's what this is about. Here, oh, therefore, to study and see what happened, and when you look at the Serbian Orthodox Church, which first appeared in these premises in 17.6.1920 when, with its decree, Alexander Karadjordjevic justified it. He can't get, Tomos can't get a confession for two years until he bribed with a million-and-a-half gold French francs, he couldn't get a tomos, you know why? Because the canon of Orthodoxy says that the Church's border goes along the border of the state. If the Kingdom, or first Kingdom of SHS, was created, the Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of SHS was to be formed. Alexander called her the Serbian Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of SHS and therefore could not get tomos, and unfortunately I did not come to talk, or comment, here, I have another second.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103397	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will now speak the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103500	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, have the population decreased in the last 10 years by nearly 10% of the total number of Croatian residents, from 4 million 284 thousand to 3 million 888? Yeah, but that's what we were talking about. A lot and mostly accusing each other. Did there occur an earthquake in Banja and devastated and impoverished anyway, a devastated and impoverished area of Croatia that once had the processing of metals, the processing of meat and the processing of wood, and could only live out of it? Yes, but then we mobilized and completely solidarity. Strong and short-term. Has the Russian invasion of Ukraine occurred, and is the overall mobilization of NATO and the EU in the supply of Ukraine ever greater and more serious weapons? Yes, it is. We strongly condemned this and solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Pretty euphoric at first, and now more routine. Does the rise in prices and inflation on a daily and progressive basis reduce the value of our worker's work and earnings and make it difficult for our employer's business conditions, make it difficult to pay for the cost of living and cost of production? It reduces and makes it difficult despite government efforts despite measures to curb price and inflation growth. Does the climate change result in rising sea levels, reducing the amount of drinking water, increasing the drying of the soil that we were working until yesterday and disappearing the ozone layer as a protection from the deadly sunlight? They happen. We know we're taking part in UN conferences and we've been to a Paris conference on climate change. We knew all that, and that's what we did. Short-term and campaigning like most things we do and we know. And in that we forgot the most important thing, we forgot about UDBU. All our dealing with the potential demographic breakdown of Croatia, the earthquake in Bania, the danger of the Russian invasion of Ukraine turning into a war all over Europe and the world, by curbing price growth, inflation, global warming and turning planet Earth into a flood and drought is pointless if we are not dealing with UDBO because UDBA is behind it all. She's the cause. The mentioned Serbian Orthodox Church does not mean anything. And we're the only ones who know how to deal with her, how to deal with Udbo. How about what's gone? We are a nation of political, media and geniuses. Pure udbogeniar genearium. If he doesn't realize it, the world will fail, and we won't be blaming anyone but ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103501	We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Skoro has risen. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Injured Article 238, Pupovac said well that the Banovina earthquake had destroyed a lot, however, he failed to say that there was a difficult situation in Banovina before the earthquake, primarily thanks to Serbia's aggression and destruction of Banovina during 1991 and the years that followed under occupation. He's a public worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103503	Okay, well, you know that was a replica, so I have to give you a heads-up. Lastly, SDP representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On February 19th, an early winter Saturday morning, law enforcement knocked on the door of one of the government's members. This began a new episode, the fifth season of the recreation series, which this time lasted ah, what kind of symbolisms 9 and a half weeks but not with Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke in the lead role. On the same day, the media announced that it is expected that two more members of the government could be brought in, and when the morning shock made things a little clear and the Prime Minister held a press release in which he repeated two already from the history of the two presidents' famous sentence. One is about the need for a state attorney to implement state policy, and the other is that he should not stick to the law as a drunk vessel, that is, to take care of stability, political relations, etc. Indirectly or directly, he told the State's attorney that she should feel obliged to them because they had set up and accepted her report. I'm not going to use these expressions that are popular these days, but that's about it. And after that, the story of reconstruction began. It mentioned 6, 7, 5 ministers that in the end here 9 and a half weeks later, it would all end with two members of the government being replaced and returned to the Croatian Parliament, and then we would either take off their immunity or we will not, depending on the decision of the Parliament and one member of the government who actually gets a reward to leave the government because they write to the media, so if they lied to me, I am lying to you to go to the Croatian People's Bank and thus ends their active political career as a few more prominent HDZ members who have left the government, say, to the Council of Europe or Mrs Maletic in that European Bank. So here you actually see two things. First, it takes the prime minister nearly two and a half months to replace two members of the government against whom an investigation was launched. Secondly, that there is no political will, political power, political agreement or anything else to replace ministers who do bad work with those who could do better. We've actually seen this for the last two and a half months. First, a minister reported threats, not to the Prime Minister or to her boss, but to Urbi et Orbi in public through the media, that the Prime Minister himself said that I would quote: "It cannot remain on this and this is a bit bizarre." That minister stayed whatever he said she couldn't stay like this. There has also been talk of a change in the defence minister due to relations with the President of the Republic to calm it down a little, but I see that the latest events are not going in a calming direction but towards further destabilising to that level that neither the envoys can leave with the president for social events. So it was a kind of reconciliation and a kind of test of conscience and a kind of ritual cleansing of sin. What I read was a ritual cleansing of sin, a test of conscience, and ultimately reconciliation of definitions is not reconstruction, but lustration. So this government doesn't go into reconstruction, this government goes into lustration. Maybe it's not bad, that even after two-and-a-half months, they set the standard that government can't have people against whom the investigation is open. And regardless of what the prime minister said after that historic address that Saturday morning, he said he would consider also removing the immunity of the labour minister, though things will not remain in the government. Maybe after two and a half months, but it's a small step forward. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's what happens if the lustration isn't already made in society, then at least it's made for start in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u103541	Okay. And now we're done with it, so we're going to go to the first point, and that's -- the final bill on amendments and additions to the Preschool and Education Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 235 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the debate on the item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. We've got breaks. First respected representative Sabina Vosovac on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am looking for a break in order to reconsider this Final Proposal for the Law on Preschool Education and Education. The goal is to ensure that every child in the Republic of Croatia is provided with available, affordable and quality wounds and preschool education. In order to achieve quality in kindergartens or preschool institutions, educated staff or educated educators and educators must work. The solution offered to this, this law to play classrooms is actually class teachers who in 2 years will be requalified and can only be a temporary non-permanent solution. Secondly, we will not be able to ensure the availability and cost-acceptability of kindergartens until we are aware of the fact that the state must play a role in the financing or co-financing of pre-school education because this type of funding, which depends on the budgetary opportunities of individual units of local self-government, leads to extremely large differences resulting in multiple discrimination between children according to the place of birth and the property status of their parents, and on the differences between salaries and the material conditions of employees in the same kindergartens and pre-school institutions depending on their place of work. It's something that we as a state cannot agree to. The noble goals are to open 22,000 new kindergartens by 2030, to build new buildings, but the first question is who will work in those kindergartens, under what conditions and whether all children in Croatia will have the same access to them. He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105092	Thank you. Of course, a break will be granted. Now, on behalf of the club, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105093	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club. I don't know if Minister Fuchs ever changed his children's diapers, but it seems to me that Minister Fuchs changed his children's diapers to know that one of the breeders can't parallelly change children's diapers and watch over 20 children under her jurisdiction. And that this kind of chaos in preschool education and education that he continues with this legislative proposal directly endangers the safety of our children. This legal proposal endangers the safety of our children because it enables the introduction of unprofessional personnel to care for our children. It does not provide a unique price for kindergartens for the entire Republic of Croatia. He does not care about the rights of trainees of future breeders. It fails to protect the rights of children with developmental difficulties and allows for the continuation of non-compliance with the pedagogical standard which leads to overcrowded kindergartens with too few breeders who cannot take care of our children. That may be clear to the minister that he once changed his diapers himself. We must not allow the EU standards, which we have not created necessary, minimum preconditions in the number of necessary professional staff and accommodation capacities, to be reached through our knees, to the detriment of our children and employees in the preschool and education system. Ministers who propose laws aimed at only formally meeting the Brussels criteria, or authority that does not do everything to protect the most vulnerable members of their society is not the authority that deserves our support. I can only hope that this debate and the amendments that the common opposition will propose will come to a large extent that this legislative proposal will be amended in a way that protects and raisers in the system and our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105094	In the name of the club will speak now respected representative Marijan Pavliček who is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105095	We are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to consult again on this final bill, but also to point out once again that the worst thing that can happen for some law is that it is challenged by the profession. This is precisely what is happening here because this law is disputed precisely by people from the profession so that, for example, the additional addition of this law is sought by the Department of Preschool Pedagogists of the City of Zagreb and Associated Members, which numbers more than 10 Croatian counties, the Department of Development Psychology of the Early and Preschool Age of the Croatian Psychological Society, the Croatian Psychological Chamber, the Department of Preschool Logopedes of the Croatian Logopedic Society, the Department of Educational Rehabilitators of Preschool Educational Education, the Croatian Chamber of Nurses and a series of Doctors of Science in the field of pedagogy, psychology, rehabilitation, means precisely those who have worked with children for years. And this is in the beginning of defeating this bill where we go 2 steps backwards because on the one hand it gives too much power to the minister to adopt a rule on the number of children in educational groups, and on the other, it is reportedly possible because of the lack of teaching profession that primary teachers can work in kindergartens and preschool children, which further degrades the preschool profession. Namely, this reciprocity is not offered to representatives of preschool professions so that they can teach children in primary school. I think we're definitely going two steps backwards with this law and we can't support it in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105096	Of course the break will be approved, and now, on behalf of the club, a respected representative, Oreshkovic, will be looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105097	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. Fellow MPs and MPs and this morning's debate during free speeches and these breaks, and everything we can hear in public and political space these days shows how much this topic is actually a secular political issue. And now we see one of these same people who disputed political moves at the level of the City of Zagreb, talking about the culture of death and similar phenomena, and at the same time, according to this law, they say that this is the biggest problem, the biggest problem that we do not have is that we do not have enough expertise in kindergartens. First of all, we need to start being honest with all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and say what we want. Do we want to provide our children with equal access to kindergartens, kindergartens, quality of education and education programs, or do we want children to stay home with their mothers? How are we going to secure a financial structure, how are we going to explain that mothers with more children may receive more compensation for staying at home, and after that, they are unemployed after the children are 15 years old because they were not working, they have no work experience, and at the same time the aunts in kindergarten receive less, less, and they care about maybe 20 or 30 children. So, all together very hypocritically, very unrelatedly, very unconsistently, and I ask that today in the debate anyone who thinks he has something to say, first of all says what the politics of the Republic, what we want from our preschool education and how we will achieve equal conditions in Zagreb, Split and in the smallest municipality that Croatia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105098	Thank you. A respected representative, Vucimilovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105099	Thank you very much. Article 238, I am pleased that you support this law, obviously which does not support anyone from the profession, and on the other hand you support the measure "parent raiser". The Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court has said its own, you as a lawyer should nevertheless uphold the rights and what the High Administrative Court has confirmed and said that acquired rights cannot be abolished in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105100	Well, of course, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Oreskovic, you also have a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105101	Article 238, I found myself here personally called completely unnecessary and unwarranted. I wasn't talking about whether or not I support this law, but I'm talking about the whole political scene being inconsistencies. Do we want children in kindergartens or do we want to leave our children at home with their mothers? He's contrived one another in terms of public policy. I'm talking about which direction Croatia wants or thinks it wants to go. And if we're talking about this particular law then...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105102	Thank you and it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a warning. We now have another request for a break from the HDZ Club of Representatives, and we will speak to the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105103	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am also looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to point out once again the quality of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Early Preschool Education and Education, more so as to show that, through two readings now in the final form before us, there is a law which is still qualitatively improved and which, in fact, will contribute to the quality of pre-school education and education in the Republic as part of a universal reform of the educational system. It has been said here by some colleagues and colleagues that this government does not care about its preschool children equally, does not care about regional equality and distribution, the affordability of pre-school education, and does not care that local self-government units need assistance in terms of sustainability. In this regard, I would like to stress that it is Article 24 of the Law of the Final Law that emphasizes and prescribes the possibility of providing funding in the state budget that is necessary for the completion of EU funding from children's kindergarten projects, which are the founder of units of local, regional and regional self-government, and thus provide for, for the first time, funding from the state budget for fiscal sustainability of kindergartens which are the founders of local self-government units, regional self-government, so our municipalities and cities on the basis of precisely the criteria to be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very much different from all previous governments. Take care of preschool [[Thank you very much.]] Education and education [[Intruder: Thank you.]] testifying and funds invested boredom. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105104	Stanku also asked for a break on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia and respected representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club For a Just Croatia for 10 minutes in order to reiterate once again that this law is extremely important not only from the point of view of preschool education but also from the fact that we are a country that is in a demographic disaster. Whether we want to agree or not, we can't run politics without there's no ideology in it. Politics is ideology and that's what makes us different. In this part, however, it would be ugly to push fiction or statistics into ideology because statistics say that there is little kindergarten not only in the City of Zagreb but throughout Croatia. Statistics say there is a lack of breeder, and now the law regulates who and how and how can requalify himself. So, as we like to say so in a Colloquial way, aunts in kindergarten are demoted to a level that some other professions can be requalified into their profession, and they cannot be upgraded or requalified into another profession. I think the statistics and statistical data that the measure "parent parent" produced results in the City of Zagreb. Look at the number of newborn children, it falls everywhere in Croatia only in the City of Zagreb has been detained at least 95% of the average before that measure was introduced while elsewhere it fell. So statistics show some things and you don't need to confuse statistics and ideology in this case because here is just a matter of money. Either we have money and we want to give it to raise our children or we don't? This country produces 400 billion kunas of gross social product, but the cat goes down one 300 billion, and most of them the ones that are in power. Here, I suggest you, lift the measure, for example. An opposition parliamentary representative would be very useful, and this is how we fit in corn, so let's get more aunts into kindergarten for that money. Like what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105106	Thank you. Now we can move this one back to the point. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education, Tomislav Paljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105107	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Preschool Education and Education Act, which regulates the system of early and preschool education and education, was adopted in 1997, and its provisions were slightly amended in 2007 and 2013, however, the current social circumstances and needs required adaptation of the provisions of this Act, as well as harmonisation with strategic documents, and the result is the law before you. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. The main objective of amending the law is to enable early and pre-school education and education to be attended by every child from 6 months of age to school, i.e. to create opportunities to increase child coverage in the early and pre-school education and education system. Namely, the current pre-school programme is conducted in the year before going to school for 250 hours. However, children who are not involved in the system of regular pre-school education system cannot be allowed to acquire the basic knowledge and skills needed to participate in the primary education and education system. What have we changed from the first reading? During the plenary debate in the first reading, one of the remarks referred to the transport of children to kindergarten. We have accepted this observation, and by law we have prescribed that municipalities and cities that do not have an organised programme of early and preschool education can co-finance or finance the transport of children to kindergarten in that unit of local self-government in which the programme of early and pre-school education and education is held for those children. Furthermore, more clearly, all curricula documents are prescribed on the basis of early and preschool education and education. Raising and education of children of early and preschool age is achieved on the basis of national curricula for early and preschool education and education and curricula of kindergarten. The national curricula refers to.../incomprehensible/... and is adopted in accordance with the framework national curricula document and it sets out the principles of educational and educational goals and expectations and approaches and ways of working with children of early and preschool age, as well as the forms of evaluation. The national curricula of preschool shall establish, in turn, the principles of educational and educational goals and educational expectations and the duration of the programme with a plan and method of implementation. Compared to the first reading, the final proposal also amended the provision regarding enrolment of children in kindergarten. In view of the lack of spatial conditions for each child of early and preschool age, it is not possible at this time to provide for enrolment in kindergarten, and it is necessary to lay down the criteria for the advantage of enrolment. It is therefore added to the provision that each child of early and preschool age has the right to enrol in kindergarten or school institution in which preschool education is performed. For a child who is required to attend preschool, the founder or unit of local and regional (regional) self-government is obliged to provide a place in kindergarten or elementary school that implements a compulsory preschool programme, and the advantage of enrolment in kindergartens for the next pedagogical year has children who end 4 years of age by April 1st. Exceptions prescribed in the 1st reading, related to the enrolment of children of parents with disabilities of the Homeland War, children with 3 or more children, children of both employed parents, children with developmental difficulties and chronic illnesses and other children in a more unfavourable situation, have not been changed. However, on the basis of the proposals received, a provision has been added to which the above criteria apply in all kindergartens which are the founder of local and regional self-government units, with priority for enrolment being governed by the founder of kindergarten by his act. Then, on the basis of the proposal received from the first reading, we added to the final draft legislation a provision relating to the system of the administrative council of kindergarten, we specifically prescribed that the members of the board appointed by the founder should have completed at least a postgraduate study or a professional study in which at least 180 ESTS points are acquired and not seen from the public workers' order, as has been prescribed so far. I especially want to highlight the funding provisions that were added after the first reading of the law. The Republic of Croatia has one of the lowest rates of participation of children in early and pre-school education and education, and insufficient infrastructure stands out as one of the obstacles. The regional differences in child coverage are particularly pronounced, it is the highest in the most developed counties. In less populated, rural and traffic isolated areas, the availability of early and preschool education and education is difficult and therefore the physical distance of kindergartens is large and the number of institutions is smaller. In order to ensure equalisation of the opportunities for all children and to increase the coverage of children, infrastructure conditions should be created previously. In order to increase the capacity of pre-school institutions, therefore, we have secured 1.62 billion kuna from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The first tender for construction, construction, reconstruction, kindergarten equipment worth 1.22 billion kuna was announced on April 22nd, and applications will be received from May 3rd. This contest will be open for 60 days. It can be registered by municipalities, cities and county. By the end of 2026, the goal is to create an additional 22 500 places in preschools, i.e. to create conditions that 90% of children aged three to school can participate in early and preschool education. We expect this to enable better educational outcomes for children. The ministry also plans a second call for those cities, municipalities and counties that would not be ready for the first. Just in the context of this call, it is extremely important to mention that through the law, we have made it possible to secure funds from the state budget and ensure that investments financed from EU projects are completed, for the construction of kindergartens which are the founder of local and regional and regional self-government units, which are located in areas with the worst development index. We have equally provided for the possibility that for the first time from the state budget we have such a wording of the formulation in the law, to provide from the state budget the means for fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the basis of the criteria and criteria prescribed by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We consider this an extremely important newspaper. The Ministry of Science and Education has respected all the proposals that we have assessed to contribute to the quality of early and pre-school education systems. However, the provisions that were also in the first reading should also be mentioned, which relate to the assistance and support of the child from enrolment in kindergarten as well as the possibility of hiring assistants for children with disabilities and professional communication intermediaries in institutions that conduct early and preschool education and education, as well as the possibility of electronic enrolment in kindergarten. As regards employees, in order to facilitate the employability of breeders and professional associates, they will be able to establish a working relationship on an indefinite basis and as trainees, but with the obligation to pass an expert examination within the prescribed time limit. They will be able to advance to three, not just two levels in the placed calling – mentor, advisor and excellent advisor. The Director of Full-time will also have any pre-school institution for the children's kindergarten director who before the appointment had a contract to work indefinitely for the job of a foster parent or an expert associate in kindergarten after the term of office will be allowed to return to the workplace for which they had concluded a contract of work indefinitely. In the end, I would like to look back at some of the echoes that this law had in public space, and here's what I see from this introduction that it will continue to have. As regards this law, the possibility of hiring primary school teachers in kindergarten has been problematicd on the one hand, subject to the acquisition of qualifications of breeders. We have therefore further clarified and regulated the provisions relating to the possibility of hiring teachers as non-professional persons, subject to the acquisition of the qualification of breeders within two years. Therefore, teachers who have completed primary education graduates are allowed to work in kindergartens where only in a group where the person who has the conditions for the care is employed can be employed until the necessary qualifications are obtained. We point out that there is already the possibility of obtaining a qualification of a graduate by study with work, but there was no possibility of hiring a teacher for more than five months, and they are in our kindergartens and they work. In addition to that teacher, only if no person who meets the requirements of the breeders does not report to the tender. The second topic, which was highly represented in public space, refers to so-called erasing the provisions of the national pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education related to the number of children in educational groups. The fact is that several remarks were received during the first reading on the provisions of that standard, and that the possibility of prescribing the number of children in educational groups was also considered, rather than prejudge the number of children in groups at all, and whether they would go to harm or benefit from better standards and better working conditions in kindergartens, we decided, therefore, because the idea by regulation was to further regulate specific situations which are not foreseen by a standard that determines the number of children in individual educational groups, i.e. to further regulate the provisions relating to the size of kindergartens that depend on the number of children in kindergartens and the number of educational groups. However, given the numerous incorrect and incomplete information presented in the public space on this subject, it is necessary to make clear that it was not also envisaged to put out of standard, out of force, nor was it prescribed to put out of force provisions relating to the number of children in educational groups. Finally, it was decided that the size of kindergarten and the number of children in educational groups would continue to form in accordance with the standard. The state pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education remains in force, but amendments and additions to this law provide for the application of its provisions only relating to pre-school programmes, etc. Head six. In other words, in this way we have allowed the longer duration of the preschool programme that is now being implemented for children who are not included in regular early and preschool programmes for 250 hours as little as possible, especially for children who are at risk, i.e. children living in economically unfavourable conditions as well as children who do not know Croatian enough. In addition to a longer preschool programme, numerous international research shows that children who have spent three or more years in early preschool education have achieved better average results than their peers who attended it for a year or more. So, team results 2011-2015. It's final. This legislative solution will bring significant changes to the early and pre-school education system, and will allow children of early and pre-school age to have better access to early and pre-school education and education, as well as quality education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105108	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas. He's the first law-abiding representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105109	Thank you very much. Preschool education and kindergartens are the first measure for human survival mainly in undeveloped areas. We need to understand that currently 40% of local self-government units have no financial capacity to finance for one kindergarten child, 40% of 500 and some local self-government units. Therefore this needs to be taken over by the state, equalised the salaries to the directors, and the DPS standards that we have and the conditions that we have in kindergartens of course should be provided by the state. A local self-government that doesn't have its... capacity she's demographically dead if she doesn't have a kindergarten, she's dead, and if we haven't figured it out since 2000. When the Council of Europe brought to Barcelona that every child from 3 to 7 years of age would be provided kindergarten by 2020, we did not move there and that is the problem. The State must take over mainly in undeveloped areas. [[Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, answer, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105110	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105111	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, it's just that it's not the subject of this law to go this way you know for yourself that we're going to have to change the entire decentralisation Act, and that's a different procedure. We are talking about amendments to the law behind which we stand and we hold that each of these changes holds a qualitative step in the right direction towards a better standard of children in our kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105112	You're the one who broke the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105113	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, where the MPs are belittled. Then it's a senseless law if...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105114	I'm sorry in which way you're belittled... Please get a warning you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105115	Well, I just wanted to say that this is a children's kindergarten debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105116	You can't discuss it with me. You're getting a second warning. That's enough, I won't let the abuse of institutions injure the Rules of Procedure. I say it very clearly in advance. I'll interrupt as soon as I see that he's starting to abuse himself and giving the other one a third warning because this doesn't make any sense anymore. This has turned into a complete joke literally. So, I'm asking you nicely, let's stick to the rules of procedure. Dear Representative Miletic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105117	Thank you, Vice President HS. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you here for public opinion to answer to us openly, how do you view yourself as Secretary of State? So we know on the one hand that more and more taxes are going to the state because it's going, so I'm going to speak in simple language to let the citizens understand me. In that register of states, more and more taxes are on the left, and then local self-government remains on it a great burden and people simply cannot provide enough number or kindergarten, and then let's let's just say and call them the right name. I'm curious, don't you really see the problem in being a state secretary that the state should help, thank your colleagues for being decent and observant, that the state should bear the burden of a raiser, and then in such a way local self-government can invest more in the entire infrastructure and in the system of kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105118	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105119	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am, of course, behind what is related to this law, and I am also standing as Secretary of State and as Head of the Working Party I understand this issue, and for the first time I have highlighted here the possibility that those units of local self-government that are in the budgetary problem or in infrastructure building in the consumption of these large funds coming from Europe can be entered from the position of the state budget in terms of the completion of the project on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is possible for those units that will not be fiscally sustainable on the basis of the criterion and regulation that will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make that sustainability possible from the state budget. And this employment problem is I say.../The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105120	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105121	Dear Secretary of State. Preschool is only a declarative obligation and a law defined as a public need for children butu to be included in the programme for at least one year before school departure, and the recommendation and need is at least two years. For preschool, the Ministry of Science and Education separates the embarrassing 20 kunas per month per child and this price has not been changed backwards for 15 years. The amount of these miserable 20 kunas per month is obtained only at the end of the accounting period or already slowly after the children complete their preschool program. The preschool programme is an additional cost for local self-government units, they barely manage to finance the stay of children in kindergartens, so I appeal that the state is more involved in pre-school education financing if it ever has more than 70% of pre-school children involved in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105122	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105123	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Yes, here the law's intensity is that the children's coverage refers to preschoolers or that not only one year before entering primary school, or you can see that we put the criteria on April 1st so that we would move it to two years if it is possible to respect the fiscal opportunities of the local self-government unit. The fact is that this budget cake has so far been what it is, but in strategic documents we have some new solutions that we will soon have in public debate, so pay attention I think will be interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105124	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105125	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. For both of us and for you, it is clear to all of us here that you actually wanted to abolish the state pedagogical standard, and I would like to congratulate the Sidro Association and the unions, as well as all of us in opposition for preventing you from raising your voice. I'm interested in you as Secretary of State you never said here that the annual report to be submitted to HS on DPS has never been submitted, you don't need to discuss it at all, and we all know that you're actually running a race with time and that you just want to build buildings. You don't care how the cold drive, how the staff, how the rest will be financed, will be financed by a good old custom as you did the last time you built the rural development program will be kindergartens, then you back-application from the state budget just below the table through the then Ministry of Demography provided money for funding so-called. cold drive. We also don't see how you plan everything else from these amendments to the law. co-finance in the first order of the teacher’s salary and the rest [[Intruder: Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.]] The expert frame. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105126	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105127	Thank you very much. Respected MPs are not correct, I've been here a little over a year, a little over a year, and then I found out that it wasn't a DPS debate, but now a DPS analysis is being carried out and we're going to have it on the council board. It's not true that we wanted to put out of force the state pedagogical standard, but the fact that, with one rule instrument, we had an ambition to do it even better, not worse, because I didn't know it was prejudged immediately and welcomed on the knife, and there was no need. I'm responsible for saying there was no need for that. And as far as infrastructure is concerned, it's true without infrastructure there's no content. Let's make an adequate infrastructure first, a comfort in which we can put the contents. I'm behind it absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105128	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I certainly support this law, especially since it will ensure a greater coverage of children in kindergartens, or a greater number of children in kindergartens. I remind you that since 2017, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has invested 2 billion kunas in early preschool education and thus built or reconstructed or reconstructed, adapted 500 kindergartens which is extremely important. In addition, a billion and 630 million kunas were secured through the NPO as you yourself said, and last week, Prime Minister Plenkovic presented to the public the first competition related to the construction of a 1.22 billion kuna kindergarten for the new 22,500 seats in kindergartens. What I'm interested in is the secretary of state that we've actually provided in this law. through State [[Intruder: Thank you.]] budget of the Republic of [[Thank you very much.]] For kindergartens. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105130	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105131	It's true, this law is a zero assumption that you could use these funds you're talking about. It is true that the last 5 years have seen the importance, significant, significant construction of kindergartens and greater coverage of children than it has ever been, and the fact is that, according to the NPO, we have very clear indicators where we are being followed by the European Commission and which will therefore require that precisely during the time period in which this money will be consumed, we must have this coverage of children, which we are talking about, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105132	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105133	Thank you very much. I really feel that these amendments of the law are necessary. In addition, we have already said that the Republic of Croatia and its National Development Strategy have determined that by 2030, 97% of children will be included in children who should attend kindergarten. Many investments we heard, were announced and related to these investments by many units of local self-government built and introduced preschool education in their area. Can you tell us how long the unit of local self-government is, therefore, cities and municipalities that still do not have preschool education and education in their area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105134	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105135	Thank you very much. If that number were to be reduced by luck, I think the latest figure is 58 units of local self-government, there is not a single object, which would be used for early preschool education. The tendency between this and this law and this public call is that everyone has conditions or that if there is a need, and this will especially be fought if you read this public call a little more carefully where units of local self-government and create their own departments and institutions will be even more rated and I think we will come up with a complete coverage of the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105136	The next replica of the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105137	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we know how far investment financed by EU projects for the construction or restoration of kindergartens has been completed, thus expanding capacities. A few days ago here we heard the government presented a tender co-financed by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan worth 1.22 billion kuna under calls for construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of pre-school institutions. So my question is, how much will the coverage of children increase, or how many additional places in kindergartens can we expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105138	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105139	Yeah, well, I think that's what we listed in this text and the saying in the law. It's got till '26. to be 22,500 children who now do not leave any forms of early and preschool education. We can ideologically argue here as best as possible, whether it is better for children to be at home with foster mothers or to be better at early and preschool institutions and education, we hold that it is the system that must enable their children to be and participate in it, and it is the one that includes it. The fact is, according to some research on demographic movements, we're not exactly the best in that period, and it's being followed, but it's still going to mean that we're going to go towards equal opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105140	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105141	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, after all we've heard and seen actually the reactions that have caused the proposed changes to the law, I believe you understand what parents and professions think of it, and it remains unclear to us why you actually have so little hearing. In fact, my question to you is that between the 2th readings, an investment from the NPO in preschool education institutions is presented, which is of course commendable, but the investment in this sector did not cover all the necessary components, as it will take several more years to increase capacity, so that a good part of the children will have to attend kindergartens in neighbouring municipalities and their parents will succumb to paying an economic price of 1500 kuna. My question to you is why and how it is possible that some of the IPO funds are not aimed at subsidising such examples, i.e. Are you planning to, i.e. is the state planning to participate to this extent and will it actually have price subsidisation activities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105142	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105143	Dear MPs, it was in the part where it was possible to intervene through this part of the funds... We did, and that's what we stated in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as regards payment and obligations, and that is, what is legally defined and directed towards the founders and in terms of material conditions and standards depends naturally on the founders and subject to the second law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105144	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105145	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Here are the data from the 2021-2022 electronic database of 1811 objects intended exclusively for the implementation of regular programs. The rate of enrolment in kindergartens and its growth is very uneven throughout Croatia. In some units of local self-government, there is more than 75% growth, and in some, barely 30%, so that all children have equal rights and the possibility of pre-school education, the government is from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for 2021 co-financed construction and construction, reconstruction, equipment of pre-school institutions with 1.22 billion kuna. Another 16000 kuna is foreseen. So investment wants to reduce regional difference and create assumptions for rooting the education system. Your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105146	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105147	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Yeah, you're right. That's exactly what this law is about. This is the intensity of the overall development strategy of the education and education system in the Republic of Croatia. We have a period and deadlines set, our ambitions are clear to us, and no matter who thinks about it, I don't think these situations are a suitable ground for greater consideration because if we don't pass this law, even if someone thinks it's bad, it's just necessary and assumes what we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105148	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105149	Dear Vice-President, the Secretary of State here is one of the main objectives of this final bill is that here here, colleagues and colleagues have on several occasions established the greatest reach, the greater the coverage in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, I would say equal access to all our areas, meaning that it includes children in early preschool in the system of education and education. I'm interested in situations where certain units of local self-government because we know that municipalities and cities are mainly founding children's kindergartens, preschools. If they don't have kindergarten in our area we used to call it a colloquial little school and it's good and commendable that the Captain's period of time for those students was one year before school. It was once the county funded this small school or preschool period. Will the county still finance it or was it their free choice or some kind of legal regulation that they must, not local self-government units, finance?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105150	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105151	Thank you very much, Vice President. As far as preschool is concerned, in terms of funding, it remains as it has been so far, so as it ends, I told the law in which the founder sets both criteria and standards. Here we are, of course, talking about the possibility that, with small environments, i.e. demographically quite discriminatory, i.e. the environments that are depressed in this regard, allow for kindergarten facilities, local self-government units to be able to associate and create their own regional institutions, so as to have more units with one administration for early pre-school education and education. And I think that's it, and through a public call it's visible that it's particularly rewarded in terms of the number of points. And we certainly encourage it to happen in practice because it's a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105152	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105153	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. During the public debate, in particular between the first and second reading of the amendment proposal and the addition of this law in the public and professional space, there was a concern of actually the profession of the educator, i.e. the fear of educators from the threat of teachers in terms of advantage, giving advantage to teachers in kindergarten employment and as non-professional persons. I'm trying to understand the fear of the teacher's profession and support the educators, but I'd like to see you again doing the profession that is probably following and listening to us right now for the sake of the public and just for the sake of educators and teachers in kindergartens whose work I deeply appreciate and respect, to explain, once again, Article 11 that has been changed in the second reading, and it defines more precisely the possibility of hiring teachers of primary education as non-professional persons, but only in cases if no educators report to the competition. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105154	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105155	Thank you very much, highly respected MPs for this question. Of course, we have been looking for solutions that will be sustainable in the long term, which will be the closest to the profession that is already deficited. And since practice is already such that classroom teachers work because there are too many on the market, and the breeder is too little already working in kindergartens can't realize their working rights for more than 5 months, and their educational qualifications, so primary education teachers. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia has the most educated able of breeders and that in European even, therefore, world scales, is one of the reasons why there are not many of them. And the fact is that class education will only be employed where there are no experts, that they can only be hired with, so in the preparatory period acquisition of qualifications by HOC at that time.../Intruder: Thank you, pretty secretary of state.(...in which it is intended, but okay. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105156	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105157	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, here we want to make the condition of early and preschool education better. And this is exactly what we're doing on the trail. My question to you very teachingly on what you have said that our breeders have been transformed in relation to the EU, and I believe that you have EU countries where when a man graduates from the Faculty of Philosophy can, with a certain, certain complement, teach education to most of the subjects. So he can't teach mathematics, physics, information, electrical engineering, but that's why I can't know history, geography, philosophy, sociology, etc. So I'm asking you if we really need to be afraid of primary education teachers who have acquired five years of education and that now with one requalification I can be competent and working in kindergartens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105158	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105159	Thank you very much. I think absolutely not, if what's natural in our education system and what's going on in parallel then it's just that the teachers and teachers of class classes were to talk about the former system in which the high school centres were, where I went in the high school where I was teaching course or we had a teaching course and teachers in the third grade of high school, we were directly enrolling on this basis in the pedagogical academy, together we ended up these two-year pedagogical schools, and I think that these differences, so one and the other life call is to work with children are not so much that they should create such divisions and such duoies, and in particular do not say that there is some kind of permanent law of incontinuity, not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105160	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105161	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am interested in the views of the ministry on the proposal of the Zagreb City Administration on the re-purpose of local committees to kindergartens where there are no adequate conditions for heating, sanitary nodes and green areas necessary for children's activities in a large number of facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105162	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105163	Thank you very much. It applies to all other spaces. Therefore, as regards Articles 7, 8 and 9 with all sub-items, which conditions, which technical standards must be met in order to implement a programme of early and pre-school education in some space. This applies to all, therefore, to this example you speak of. If these conditions are not met, then no work permit can be obtained, so the program must be authorised. The fact is that the founder forms his commissions to determine whether they comply with the state pedagogical standard or whether they are in accordance with the law, but the law is the same for all. Therefore, children cannot and must not go to places that are not adequate and which are not meant for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105164	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105165	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, since I come from a local self-government unit that is one of the most responsible for pre-school education, I would be interested in what are, in fact, the main positive changes that you expect will come under this law. And what are the following steps that await us, especially when it comes to the state pedagogical standard, which literally indicates to us on the local self-government unit whether we will be operationally easier or harder to get to the establishment of new kindergartens, the number of educational groups and all that is closely related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105166	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105167	Thank you very much. Yes, Your Honor, that is why we are doing a detailed analysis of the application of the state pedagogical standard in practice, after which we will go to the parliamentary committees as I have said and see whether this state pedagogical standard is sustainable or not, as far as it applies or not. Of course, he gives headaches to those who have to maintain that standard and finance, and on the other hand he gives headaches to those who have to work with these children if it is a non-compliance with so-called number of children either in a manger or in a kindergarten age of 3 to 7 years in terms of numbers in groups with which it is concerned. We'll see after that, and then whether or not we're going to change the standard based on this analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105168	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105169	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the graduates have to be interns for a year after graduation today, do a traineeship, and then pass a professional exam. By this law you suggest that all class teachers immediately start working as breeders, they have 2 years to requalify. And I'm interested in why any graduate would sign up for an early preschool education if he could finish class and requalified within 2 years and have literally 2 professions. So she can teach at school and can be a kindergarten teacher. So I'm curious to know how many early and preschool courses you're thinking about ending because it's obviously gonna be unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105170	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105171	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, of course, would not speculate or prejudge what will happen, will not happen. I absolutely agree that if there is a possibility of this type of qualification, the acquisition of qualifications which is in line with the standard of interest and which is related to the Croatian Qualification Framework that this must be made possible and in the opposite direction is not only the subject of this Law but will be subject to the Law on Education and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105172	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105173	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, you yourself mentioned today that our educators may be the best trained within the EU, but isn't it just discriminatory to this profession and to disrespect that profession to allow teachers of primary teaching to work with preschool children because of what you say is a lack of preschool profession itself, and on the other hand, you don't offer reciprocity. You don't offer that possibility to breeders to work in primary schools. I have never heard that because of the lack of a doctor is offered to dentists or veterinarians so that they can requalified and work in hospitals and work with patients. I think this approach really degrades the very profession of the breeder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105174	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105175	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I disagree, of course. The analogy can't be the same, and whether you're right and I just said it, whether, in the opposite direction, it's going to be possible for teachers of early and preschool education and education that also, acquiring qualifications goes to primary education, it's just going to be, we're going to consider it through the law on education that's just in the works, it's got to be because of the system of equality, and if it's going to encourage people to take those interests, we believe it will, because when we build all these capacities and when it comes to the coverage of what we're talking about, it's going to mean that we're going to have to have a need, in our estimates for another 5,000 new employment in that sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105176	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105177	Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions. First of all, I personally think that we will not succeed in reaching the scope of the EU acts and I am interested in what are the consequences of this if we fail to achieve the desired coverage? And the second question is specific and applies to Art. 13 for children with developmental difficulties. So today the kindergartens are in an impossible situation. The breeder, one breeder, people don't know it, one's got 20 kids. In these legislative changes, it is proposed that a communication expert can and does not have to be there for children with developmental difficulties. So this breeder, besides going to change his children, and then I guess the other children are guarded by good angels, he also has to take care of children with developmental difficulties, etc. Are you at least ready to accept amendments that would go towards a communication expert being there for children with developmental difficulties?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105178	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105179	Thank you, well-respected MPs. The first part of the question, if you won't meet the indicator that's given to the NPO, he'll have the law... All kinds of consequences for everything else that has been applied through the NPO because that is how work works, of course, the EU and the EU Commission, and that is why it is being controlled, and that is why we will absolutely do everything to ensure that this condition has been fulfilled, as has been the case so far in all parts of the NPO, for example, with vouchers that we have recently had. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This second part, why can it, because just because units of local self-government will certainly not look favorably at the employer who will prescribe them to do something, and that the one who prescribes it is not obliged to pay, therefore this formulation will, and the law now first foresees the possibility of assistants, or assistants to enter kindergartens, as well as communication... So it can, that's why it's a formulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105180	Thank you. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105181	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Croatia as a member of the EU through the Barcelona Agreement has taken a number of commitments, one of them is to ensure a full-time care for 33% of children from birth to 3rd year of life by 2010. By 2020, to increase the coverage of children in early and preschool education, at least 95%. I come from Istria County where we testify that many units of local self-government are on their own to build additional accommodation facilities in kindergartens and employ new personnel. When these units of local self-government sought government support, financial support through amendments and through budgets, they were regularly rejected. My question is, what has the Ministry done all these years to achieve these goals, except, of course, this law against which everyone, both the profession and the parents and the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105182	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105183	Thank you very much. Here, you have on, on a very obvious example of what has been done, which seems to be, and soon, as I said, will be in public debate and the National Development Plan for the Education and Education System. This part of the question why there have been no direct interventions to your request cannot answer you, but the fact that I have not seen the argument of neither the profession you speak of nor the ones protesting against the law, therefore, which we should hitchhike something that is zero to the assumption of taking and consummation of these European funds at our disposal. I find that very irresponsible. We can argue, but obstructing the law at all and amending this law is irresponsible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105184	Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105185	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Roma community estimates preschool as extremely useful for preparing Roma children in primary schools. However, regardless of the positive shift, there are very few Roma children in kindergartens. We know a number of reasons why, which puts pressure on preschools to prepare children for primary school in an unreal short period of time. Therefore, the preparation of Roma children for primary school remains inadequate, especially when it comes to knowledge of Croatian. The solution could certainly be to make a decision that preschool will be mandatory for Roma children because unless they have the same starting positions, the deficit will eventually be only greater and will deepen the differences between Roma children and children from other populations. My question is, can you expect a move in that direction in the near future in the introduction of a mandatory preschool? Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105186	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105187	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is true that we have excellent examples of the integration of children of Roma national minorities into preschool education, but not in the extent that would satisfy us and that would be acceptable. The fact that we're aware of the difficulty in that regard. Some shifts are evident and as far as compulsory preschool is concerned, it is a strategic issue not only regarding Roma children, but completely as a standard in the Republic of Croatia, and we will have a very clear discussion about this. The fact is that our primary education takes the shortest time in Europe and that we have to change some things here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105188	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105189	My dear secretary, if I understand you very well earlier, you said that obstructing or passing this law is actually very irresponsible because it seems we will not be able to use and receive NPO funds unless we adopt amendments to this law, and you are actually following HDZ policy somehow. Often, even on the board whenever we criticized, you did not say well that we do not love Croatia. It's usually said that if we criticize something, that's why you don't like Croatia. But I would have asked you here we see now the protests of the profession were several days ago, even there were 53 cities because they were protests and educators of the profession, etc. Now they've prepared very serious amendments, 20, 30 amendments. If you're ready for them, they'll probably all be proposed by all of the same amendments. Are you ready, have you looked at them that, are you ready to accept any of these amendments here in order to improve this law, so that we can all vote for it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105190	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105191	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. I absolutely don't think I can be instructed to have any concern about the content of what we're talking about today, professionally or humanly. As for some apostrophe in the direction of the HDZ either, I am not a member of the HDZ, I have no reason to communicate in this way, nor was it an idea. I haven't seen the amendment. The fact is, through the three parliamentary committees at first reading and throughout this procedure, we have observed more remarks before this second reading than we have rejected them. We'll see, we'll consider the content and subject matter of these amendments. I, through the whole public debate, have not seen the main reasons why this law would not be good and why it would not be acceptable. I apologize, but that's my opinion. I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105192	Dear representative Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105193	Here's what you said about why it's not acceptable. Because, in the light of this law, you said, the implementation of this law does not require additional budgetary resources from the state budget, and you also said that the means to implement all the obligations arising from this law, the units of local (area) self-government provide within the available fiscal capacities of a single unit because this law does not prescribe a deadline for their implementation. The whole debate here and all these amendments will actually fall into the water which will not solve the unequal availability of available places and will not solve the affordability of kindergartens, or we will not have sufficient capacity. I'll do it later in an individual debate and kindergartens will still be expensive for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105194	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105195	Thank you very much. Dear MPs may not be as complete as you said, but that the step in this direction will be great and significant, and which is visible at the end of the material component, it is certain that we are behind it and that according to standards that will certainly be better for our children in the space of the entire Republic of Croatia, we are behind it. Of course, here the interests of those who have to pay it with the needs of better conditions that our children deserve, and that we can, of course, argue indefinitely, but surely as employers we were not and the employers were not in a position to impose new obligations on those who have to respect it, and many are in trouble and we are, of course, aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105196	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105197	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, these legal changes are prescribed that, in accordance with the needs of children with developmental difficulties with an educator, a third person, or a third educator, or one assistant for children with developmental difficulties or a professional communication mediator. This is not in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities under which children with developmental difficulties must also be allowed to go to kindergarten. It should be pointed out that the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that a child with developmental difficulties should have a full and decent life in conditions that guarantee dignity, strengthen the child's rely on their own strength and facilitate its participation in the community while at the same time stressing that there must be no discrimination on the basis of disability. How are you actually going to provide children with difficulties? Joining the community with such a vague need. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105198	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105199	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you have testified to the fact that so far it has not been in the legal frameworks recognized this possibility which is now given in terms of both assistants and in terms of communications intermediaries and third breeders. It's daytime. So it says it can be, it will depend, of course, on the conditions and possibilities of those who can implement it. And as for, of course, the right to enrol children with difficulty, it still stood, of course, and the criteria which of these conditions that have priority in enrolment in kindergarten will remain on the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105200	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105201	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I come from Međimurje, so I still have some insight into the problems of the Roma population in preschool education. For example, in Međimurje, we also provide free transportation and free food, but only 31% of children are 3 to 6 years old. In preschool education, up to 70% of children are lost in the system during primary school, 31% of Roma from 15 to 18 years of age. attends high school, so problems exist, solutions we offer whether it is at local and regional level. What do you think will change in a good way with this law, and what will you as a state do about better integration and education of Roma because you can't still transfer everything to local and regional self-government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105202	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105203	Thank you very much. There are, of course, respected MPs, you know it best, a whole series of programs and a whole series, and in Međimurje, therefore, really good examples where this integration goes, or where encouraging the early and pre-school education system and education of Roma national minorities has made certain shifts and results. Of course, regardless of what is completely free, you do not have the example that you are completely free of charge of this for parents children's kindergartens for Roma children nevertheless motivation is very often not such that they are included for various reasons. This is a complex, complex problem, this part will not be solved as it might be or at the pace we would like, but if we are going towards the preschool obligation that counterpart Kajtazi was talking about, then of course we will be very much touched and of course the population of Roma children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105204	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Voice and vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105205	Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you heard yourself well when you said earlier that in law you didn't prescribe that any child with difficulties must be provided by an assistant or an expert communications intermediary because in that case you would have to assume as a state the obligation to pay the same. It's a shame, so pay up, so it's our children and on that first step of institutional education, which is preschool, early preschool education, that's where you just have to equalize your chances and try to realize how much equal opportunities you can get into primary school. I'm not surprised at the law when your attitudes are like this. So we're going to build buildings, we have to pick up money from the European funds, okay, but I'm asking what the state is going to do to ensure that every parent has a kindergarten that doesn't have to pay 800 kuna a month, and when are you going to secure those who work in them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105206	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105207	Thank you very much. No, I was talking about the formulation that is within this law, and what we can agree on can be changed, but then we need to make a complete change in the legislative system and we can open the debate of course. I am for it, but don't tell me that I'm against absolutely entering and, of course, an assistant for children, so that, I mean absolutely anyone who works in education and education doesn't come to mind, I'm just saying why it's in the law of such a formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105208	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105209	Dear Secretary of State, the most beautiful part of human life is childhood, so it is Croatia's intention to accommodate more than 90% in an institutional form of care such as kindergarten. But normal life also includes participation with civil society, with religious communities, particularly homes for old and powerless, with the church, with associations. How in this law did you predict that there should be no abuse, so we must be aware that no matter what we want, there must be certain control of those who work or who work with children? How did you first allow civil society to participate in the child's life in kindergarten and secondly how will you control it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105210	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105211	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, what you are of course talking about is made possible on the one hand by shorter problems which have to go through, of course, the process of obtaining consent through our agency and can then be applied between the other and the institutions you are talking about. The jurisdiction of supervision in a formal sense is, of course, on an educational inspection, but as regards the welcomeness of these initiatives, and if these preconditions are met, which we are talking about is, of course, something I agree to encourage and that in this direction we should develop our society, and in particular you said well in the situation when we care about that period of life that we should all be most beautiful, and I believe that it was, it was certainly a childhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105212	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105213	Thank you very much, dear chairman. Dear Secretary of State, let's imagine a situation where we come to the hospital for an easier operation, we ask who's going to operate on us, so here's this man, but he didn't really specialize in what he's doing today, but he's 2. I was with the doctor who specializes in it. Just to try to paraphrase this situation a little bit, which states that the job of a teacher can be done by a person who has completed a teaching study, etc. and so on, but there must be a person with adequate education within 2.g. This person will be further adequately hoped to be educated by a special programme that we do not know at this time what he will look like or exactly what he means. Please comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105214	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105215	Thank you very much. I was talking about the most related programs, the most related occupations, I said already that the analogy with the medical profession here is not appropriate, but I'll say that it's not true that there are no programs, and they exist, given our communication with representatives of other universities, as is the example currently in, in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105216	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105217	Thank you. The availability of kindergartens to all under equal conditions is one of the basic demographic issues, so it does not come down to demographics to the number of newborn children but to their life perspective, and it starts from kindergarten and there are several problems, first is infrastructure. You have already mistakenly rejected the amendments to the budget at the demands of the local self-government units. Another problem is the staff problem in those kindergartens, their dissatisfaction with poor working conditions, and you are now mistaken in planning an education system for the education of these staffs. And the third thing is the quality of the preschool program itself. You did not take care of what is being checked when you enrol those children in primary school and what competencies preschool kindergarten children acquire according to existing programs. I agree with you that it is very important to withdraw European funds, but if you miss the content so badly, then everything we do with this law doesn't make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105218	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105219	Thank you very much. Yes, of course the infrastructure is important, of course the content is a larger subject of debate and that we can argue about the way and methodology that we are going to implement something. We think this is a good direction, I say, not to prejudge until I see the text and the amendments' proposals, that is, the way we will operate, but all the good, well-proud remarks and logical procedures that were apostrophe between the first and second readings, we have respected and we have put into the text of the law, the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105220	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105221	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So the purpose and purpose of this Law should be to ensure the conditions for all children in Croatia to be able to get preschool education by a certain year, because we can all agree, no matter what option we belong to, that this is something that is the basis for everything further. If we know that this is the purpose and purpose, then of course, we also have to ask questions about which tools can we come up with? One of the tools is to ensure locations where they can go to kindergarten. About how to build or the rest because no particular subject, I'm not going to open. The other financial conditions are how much it costs, how can everyone be this and can everyone afford it and we know that they can't and how can they actually make all the kids go financially, but thirdly, how long does it take for an educator if all the children in Croatia are going? How much do we need? So now there should be registration quotas so that we can ensure that in 2030 Did you take care of that and do you know that? [[Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105222	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105223	Thank you, well-respected MPs. We did, of course, that the question of quotas and considering, in that part of the university's independence and the indirect role of the ministry, we will step up our activities in that direction. We're going to boost that part of the stimulation, and what we can do, so we can stimulate the writings where we see they're deficiting. The fact is that this class class teaching thing and we're doing it because we're going to open up and need new 5 thousand jobs, that the indicators are very clear, it's not, for all the kids, but from 3 to 7 years, 90% of us are very challenging, and the fact is that we have to have some other strategy, or in the other part, think long term because otherwise we're going to be in a big, big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105224	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105225	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The fact is that in certain parts of Croatia, for example In my Zadar, it's produced and ends up with a lot of breeders, and there's a teacher there, but a raiser especially. The fact is that in some other parts of Croatia there are not enough breeders. So the law's intensity is either to strengthen this migration to actually those who are interested in that kind of work or to just include teachers and then actually encourage them to acquire certain qualifications for preschool education. What the remark was, and you put it into the law, to just make and edit the regulation in what way and which status these teachers will have in relation to the breeders. I think there's that animosity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105226	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105227	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'll do it again. Class teaching comes into consideration only when a breeder does not report for a particular job, regardless of whether it is an early and preschool teacher, regardless of whether or not we are talking about... , regardless of whether we're talking about breeders coming from other EU systems where there's enough even medium-sized professional cooks, but they have nostrification according to the MI system and they have to be hired here under conditions as experts, and I say there are such examples where the middle expert prepares, of course, it does and has a full right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So behind all of them when they're not there, then comes class classes in these conditions that we're talking about today, and I think now we're talking about pushing some kind of system of intricacies on just to promote classrooms is at least incorrect and unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105228	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I support these amendments and the addition of the laws, but I would ask you once again to see if it is possible to define some articles of the law more precisely, such as: Art. Article 24 37. It states that, in accordance with the needs of children with developmental difficulties, a third educator or an assistant for children with developmental difficulties or a professional communication mediator may work with the consent of the founder. I think it is very important to know whether it is the representative body, the city council or the executive body, the mayor or the mayor. It's the same as an article. 37 says that it is appointed acting as acting officer, if no one is invited to apply or any of the applicants is not elected, so it would be better to define this more precisely because we have a lot of cases where the city council or municipal council does not have the same composition and does not belong to the same political current as the mayor, and I think that you could be shut down after that with remarks, suggestions and queries on this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105230	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105231	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We're going to consider, I think this formulation was and was put in line with the Ministry of Administration's Imputation whether in some perspective this would lead to a problem of power as at certain levels of the founders they form within the meaning of the executive body, so whether i don't know whether i know the representative or directly. We will see what can be done in this regard if you feel that this will make things cleaner and more precise or less difficult for those who make those decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105232	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105233	My dear secretary, I'm glad my colleague is right... that I wanted to take a detour too because maybe it'll be accepted, it's a really big problem. And I'd like to draw your attention that you don't need to investigate where there's no qualified workforce. They are not in the rural part of Croatia, and we need to fill in. And how? Here's a colleague mentioned earlier that migration may in some way motivate people to migrate, but look, then you need to secure a place and a marriage mate. We have one system that we need to kind of bend to make it all work together. Furthermore, another question, did you perhaps consider that people who can be employed in other institutions such as the one who may be employed? Nurses and logos to be paid out of the state budget? It's a huge burden for kindergartens, and I think it would be okay for people who work in that kindergarten to have the same salary as they do in a health home or another institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105234	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105235	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, I'm also on the verge of your thinking, it would be good if there was a need for where the expert staff was missing that, with the job itself, he would be able to possibly provide other options that would involve a complete family or a mate like you said. Okay, that's one part that goes beyond my domain now under this law, and yet what you're saying as the next possibility of relaxing what's related to the leaders' obligations in the units of local and regional self-government we'll see. I think if we get to the point where preschool is mandatory, then that one year that would then go possibly hypothetically to the central state budget would be something that would make it very possible for the founders to breathe in the sense that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105236	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105237	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I haven't heard all the lines, so maybe someone asked a question, but if it's not here, I'll ask it the first time. In many units of local self-government there are private kindergartens that are partly subsidized by local self-government. In some, the subsidy is the same as in kindergartens where the founder is local self-government in other and most local self-government is significantly lower. I must stress that somewhere private initiatives have saved local self-government by opening their kindergartens. Is there any possibility that through the legal framework local self-government is forced to equate or to give that part of the subsidy out of the country? Anyway, I don't see why the same service would be paid in two different ways if the service was the same, and maybe even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105238	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105239	Thank you very much. Yes, I spoke in the part where it is possible, so in a situation where capacity will be present and it will be made, but fiscal sustainability will not be possible and that according to the government's standards, it can be paid directly from the state budget. The fact is and well you said there are excellent examples where this merger of public and private actually is in win-win situations in some way saved some units of local self-government, and as regards the coverage of investments related to NGOs and the creation of public institutions which then have an obligation of course to run the entire system, this will probably be resolved through mutual contracts in a potentially part of private entrepreneurship, but of course with the part required by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105240	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not then I'm opening a debate about this wheel. Thank you. I draw attention to the fact that virtually all clubs and a significant number of individual debates have appeared, I predict that it will last at least six hours next, so let's get going as soon as possible then and the first one will be the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, and time will be shared by respected MPs Damir Bakic and Ivana Kekin. First of all, the respected representative Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning only a few of these basic coordinates, I will repeat them even though the secretary of state said them. Therefore, according to the National Strategy by 2030, the proportion of children aged three to the school age should be increased to 97%. The NPOO states as the latest available national data that this percentage is only slightly higher than 76% at the moment, and as a target, it is pointed out that by 2027 we would like to raise that share to 96%. In particular, the NPOO points out that there is a challenge to the apparent insufficient involvement of children from marginalised groups such as families of less socio-economic situation, Roma, children with developmental difficulties, etc. The aim is therefore to equalise opportunities for all children and their inclusion in the early and pre-school education system in the NPOO. The NPOO therefore envisioned investment in the construction and equipment of infrastructure as much as 1.6 billion kuna. Indeed, six days ago, the prime minister presented a tender co-financed by the NPOO worth 1.22 billion under the same call, so construction, construction, reconstruction, etc. This will, according to the prime minister, provide capacity for an additional 22.5 thousand children in preschool institutions. The Secretary of State said that this law is actually a prerequisite, one of the preconditions of course that we would achieve these goals, so let's now see how much this law really helps, which could be better or perhaps missing in it. I'll talk about two or three things that, in our opinion, seem to be missing. So, speaking of ensuring equal opportunities as we wrote in NPOO, here is this, nowhere, there is no provision in the law on preschool education and education in the languages of national minorities. It would be necessary for the law to say something about it in an adequate way at least, at least provide some framework and some basis for it. Furthermore, when it is still about ensuring equal opportunities for all, then it would be in art. In Article 3(3), the word ‘can’ should be replaced by the words ‘it is’ and it is about financing transport to another JLS in a lack of own capacity. Of course you can co-finance the transport of children to another JLS, but it doesn't commit anyone to anything. Secondly, I would like to say something about probably the most commentable and will be the most commented article of this law, which is art. 7. opening up the possibility of employment in the system of classroom teachers, of course, under the obligation of qualification. A colleague named Kekin will talk more about it, but I'd like to point out two things that are clearly missing here. First of all, we need a more precise provision on the qualifications programmes and their licensing. Secondly, one recent study showed, we have more or less everyone on the benches that, that we have this information that, that almost 20% of qualified educators are currently working in preschool education and education institutions for a certain time. Therefore, we think that in fact no institution in the system should hire an unprofessional person even with the obligation to qualify as this law provides while at the same time hiring qualified educators for a certain period of time. And finally when we talk about what's not there, the most important thing, and so did colleague Dark-Taritash. So we decided the next 5 years. Upgrade capacity for 22.5 thousand children, invest 1.2 billion kuna. So, like every time we plan to invest in buildings without taking care of people, and where people, where 2,000, at least 2,000 new educators who need us to work with those 22.5 thousand new children in kindergartens, because the way we do it is neither recovery nor resistance, it was long time ago that it was going to start with an energetic broad social action, with incentives, scholarships, stimulations, with a wide action of propagating professions and attracting young people into professions, it's exactly the same as in teaching professions in deficits, and we're going to be late tomorrow, but it's still better tomorrow than the day after. Thank you very much. She'll use her colleague for the rest of her time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105242	Thank you. Dear colleague Ivana Kekin on behalf of the same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105243	Thank you. So, I will rely on my colleague Bakic, who has already said that these amendments and amendments to the laws have come before us to allegedly create a framework in which we will reach this, and the famous Barcelona goals, and indeed enable the vast majority of our children to become more equal and fair at the beginning of their educational path which, in most of all aspects, will determine their future lives. But although this is the proclaimed goal of what we have seen, it cannot be achieved with such changes and additions. The first part of the reason lies in what counterpart Bakic said, so that he is actually failing to deal with the key problem that we have, which is a lack of qualified staff, which is why these changes and complements are being dealt with superficially and are being dealt with in the short term, so they are dealing with the problem of compensation, although they recognise that there is a shortage, but this lack is being resolved by the retraining of teachers, I think it is better than having a systematic violation of the state pedagogical standard, but the question remains why there are no registration quotas involved and related professions, and remains an even greater issue which he already mentioned to his colleague, and that is why there is no systemic access to the problem of lack of staff, if he exists and we know that there is why there is no increase in registration quotas, why young people are not motivated to enroll themselves in these colleges, why they systematically violate their labour rights, why such a high percentage is not being trained, why there is not being prepared and trained in the context. Therefore, the most important, and also due to the lack of such a marked weakest link of our educational system, a qualified workforce remains a systemically neglected issue. A second and even more important set of reasons why this goal of equal chance at first will not be achieved lies in the fact that these amendments and additions to the law fail to correct the current causes of inequality but that they are precisely the present injustices they continue to practice. Let us start from the fact that the financing of kindergartens remains on the back of units of local administrations and self-government and therefore we have one single link in the educational education system financed by local administration, which means in practice that a child born in a wealthy municipality will be able to enter 100 different programs, languages, sports programs, Montessori, all will be fully co-financed or even fully in some municipalities, and a child in a poor municipality will be happy if his kindergarten doors do not close once they stop touching EU funds. So so much for equal opportunities. That's the first thing. The second thing you missed was to re-prescribe clear and universal criteria on who has the advantage of enrolling in kindergarten. This remains for every community chief to determine for himself, so we know very well and hear from the field that sometimes the advantage of enrolling in kindergarten is for those who know the chief and who called the chief on the phone. So that's what it looks like sometimes when the ministry fails to prescribe universal criteria. So much for equal chances again. In addition, it was still failed to clearly determine how we are counting the price of kindergartens rather than leaving it to local self-government units or private kindergarten directors who are doing it, and additionally what counterpart Bakic said, so the children of national minorities were neglected, and what is probably the worst neglected are children with developmental difficulties. So we will submit a series of amendments, of course, in an effort to suggest at least partial improvements. Unfortunately, though, we believe that these changes and additions have failed to carry out the basic task, which is to increase equality among our children, but rather, these changes and additions to the area of discrimination are maintained and extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105244	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most will now speak the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic, and will share the time with the respected representative Mira Bulja. First honorary representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105245	In my request for a break, I asked a rhetorical question, has our minister ever changed his children's diapers? The same goes for the secretary of state and all those involved in making such a legal proposal and which they are now promoting, because if someone were really changing baby diapers then they would know that the current situation in preschool educational institutions is unsustainable. What does that look like? You've got a kid who's still in diapers, he's making an emergency, you're like a nurse who's got 20 kids going to the sanitary knot to change that diaper, and who's guarding the other kids for that time? And good angels. I'm going to quote a nurse who literally told me that every day when I go home, I'm happy that no one arrested me and that all the kids survived. Well, that's the reality of our kindergarten child rearing. And if we had those who are more guided into the process then I believe that we would never come up with such legal changes that have only one goal to meet the Bruxell criteria that we can all agree on in theory, but in practice we will not agree on the way, and the way is over the knee, threatening the safety of our children and the rights of our breeders. Because what the goal here is to simplify is to bring as many children as possible into kindergarten as possible, so that we will formally meet the criteria, and we have neither created the capacity nor provided the necessary staff, but today, in this situation, directly threatened the safety of our children. Let me remind you of a truly cynical explanation of the legislator who points us to how he will succeed in meeting these criteria of expanding the scope of children. He says: “In view of the overall decline in the number of early and preschool children by 15%, this should reduce the challenge of reaching a hundred percent enrolment. To translate, so in the Republic of Croatia the solution is the following. Since all our policies including demographic and high levels of corruption are so negative that people are mass evicting and we have a demographic downturn, the same will now be our solution to the problem of inadequate kindergarten care because there will be fewer children. So if HDZ successfully continues with such a government, such policies, lack of demographic vision and corruption will reduce the number of children and we will no longer have these problems. Really cynical even if it's HDZ! In short, I will look back at two legal acts, given the amount of time in an individual debate, I will continue with the additions. Article 12 of the applicable law provides for a requirement of quality and safety of equipment and furniture to be equipped with kindergartens, but it is not prescribed that they must comply with the prescribed quality. Do you know how to get equipment in kindergartens today? By demeaning the breeders in such a way as to wire, they literally wire their parents to share their funds. And now a parent, you don't know who's worse, a parent who doesn't have money or a foster parent who's in a situation like this. And to this attached truly amazing explanation that I received in the earlier replica when I demanded a minimum of respect for the amendment that children with developmental difficulties must have a communication expert, not only can I. I'm told listen, the local self-government units won't like it because they don't have the money and they expect us to pay for it. Great! You pay for it. If you think it's so important that you put it in the law, make a commitment and pay for it yourself. Because a country that cannot take care of its most sensitive social groups, not just children, but children with developmental difficulties is not a state, or a government that manages the country that deserves our support. Ministers will repeat once again who propose laws aimed at only formal meeting the Bruxell criteria, that is, the authority that does not do everything to protect the most vulnerable members of society is not the authority and the law that we will support. The safety of our children must always be first, and so is the prerequisite for this security. It is rightly the breeders with belonging rights and salaries that care for these same children, not as today that they are mass leaving the system at the moment when they are most potent at 10, 15 years of training because they cannot endure this pressure and thank God every time they go home for another working day. Is that Croatia we deserve? Perhaps one of those who write laws should change which diapers and advocate different amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105246	He will continue on behalf of the same club, the respected Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105247	State secretaries with co-workers, the key topic of demographicism in undeveloped areas is the possibility of units of local self-government, which is why this is essentially what we're trying to discuss in the adoption of this law because, without conclusion, if we're just making a dead letter on paper to bridge certain things, then that law doesn't make any sense. In this law, there must be a target set and where Croatia was in Barcelona in 2000, the Council of Europe has made all children 90% of children have childcare kindergartens by 2020. And then the more developed countries funded undeveloped areas like we have Lika, Gorski Kotar, Zagora, Slavonia I don't know they funded the state to survive people in that area. Is today few who can survive as a young man, a young family in an area where no childcare school is provided. However, 40% of local self-government individuals in the Republic of Croatia are not able to provide a single diet of financial capacity to kindergarten. And that's how we gravers ourselves because we burn the earth. Which will be in Lika, which will be in Dalmatian Zagora. I can say as mayor what I've been waiting for, and probably so can my fellow mayors, so I can say that problem. When I got there there were 180 kids unrecorded I couldn't enroll, which means last year they already passed the enrollment. What I started, now a kindergarten is being built, I thank the church that is being built, the city co-finances a part of the church and there will be a kindergarten in Brnez. I immediately made a project because there were no projects for kindergarten that we would run for EU funds, for the recovery plan, third kindergartens also in another area. But what's the problem? The problem is that we all mayors are trying here to finance I raised the co-financing of parents from 950 kuna to 1,450 kuna, every other child is free of charge in the kindergarten in Sinj. But where is the state? I can also give for schools where the county is famous and I give for schools that the county founder is because he doesn't care. Where's the one between the levels? So is health care. However, kindergartens are the basis of everything. I must commend these aunts, I raised them and paid them of course... with the financial capacity we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Gorski kotar, behind the Dalmatian whole, we simply have a problem with financial capacity. And most of these municipalities have no ability to pay their aunts. That's why you have to take over, why in one town the aunt would have the salary of 4,000 kuna, and in another 10,000 kuna, and then the system is unfair. Then he says you have to have up to 600 dice one institution. But somewhere there may be 2,000, it's a minor problem, it's a bigger problem if aunts have 20 and something more high in Jaslic age or I don't know, it's a bigger problem. And I think and I think and I know, now here's the mayor who has the practice that kindergarten is basically secured by kindergarten parents who work and who want to do basic demographic measures. And the state must also be involved because of the Constitution which calls them to equality and I call on the Ombudsman for children to be manifested here and to those employees, i.e. Our aunts have the same salaries, but there can't be without a state it's simply impossible if the unit is saying this in good faith, is it going to move us all because no parent is going to stay in a local self-government unit where he's not provided with kindergarten. And that's why the state has to take over, it has to take over part of the commitment mainly because of the even development, and because of the rest of the people mainly in vulnerable undeveloped areas. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105248	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105249	Thank you, Vice President. Croatia is at the very bottom of the number of pre-school child coverage compared to other EU countries that have imposed our obligation to include 95% of pre-school children in kindergarten by 2022. According to the latest statistics, the share of three-year-olds covered by pre-school education in the EU has 56% while France comes first with 99.50%. According to the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, there is currently no organised children's kindergarten accommodation in 76 municipalities and towns. Due to insufficient and overbooked kindergartens, as many as 5,000 preschool children remain on waiting lists each year. The government recently presented a tender for the construction and equipment of kindergartens co-financed by the 1,22 billion kuna National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which aims to create a new 22,500 seats. And today we have the Preschool and Education Act that does not follow the government's announced measure. It's unreal, if we're aware that with the beginning of autumn comes a new generation of kindergartenrs or jaslinists. How long until the fall of the day will the kindergarten be built or rehabilitated? The most common cause of failure to enrol in kindergarten is the unemployment of parents, and it is forgotten that kindergarten is an educational institution aimed at cognitive and psychosocial development of a child. This discriminates against children and parents and promotes social inequality which violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which advocates the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child also include the availability of pre-school education and education, and it should be one of the pillars of a high-quality innovative policy. Do you know how many children are now in groups, do you know that only one educator is working with them? The kindergartens are not a childcare service while the parents are at work but are places that promote healthy psychosocial growth and the development of children in whom children are socialised, educated and raised. And to make sure that this is all going to be implemented we have a state pedagogical standard which is a roof document that guarantees children their rights, and employees in preschool education systems as well as parents serve as a tool to defend them, so the ruling came up with the idea of abolishing DPS and introducing a rulebook by the minister himself, which would determine the number of children in educational groups, as well as the required square and number of employees, but with the pressure of profession and parents, however, they gave up. The national pedagogical standard prescribes exactly how many children should be in the group, how many breeders must be with children, how large there must be rooms in which children stay, what must be the yard and the whole set of provisions guaranteeing the child safe stay in kindergartens, and also it is not respected and it needs to be regained. The price of kindergartens for parents depends on the possibilities of local budgets, and each unit in particular makes a decision on how much it will co-finance the full price of kindergartens ranging from 1,400 to 3,300 kuna and how much it will be participated by parents. We also have disabled and underpaid educators who are not only financed from the state budget but depend on the good will of JLS. The lack of expert staff has been the problem for 20 years, and no one wonders why we lack people, why people are not in the profession, why our educators work in tourism or go into other callings and occupations, why children with developmental difficulties or gifted children often do not have someone available to help them integrate into the group and realize their potential. For years, our educators have been working on short contracts, which is completely contrary to the Labour Act, even working for the same employer on the same jobs because there is a strange interpretation of the law and there is no case law regarding it. So our educators are constantly in preeminent work, they don't have job security, and they never know what they're going to pay this month. That's why people don't want to do this job, and even when we see what conditions they have to do, it's no wonder that almost no one wants to work in an institution. A new legislative solution in neither of the five dimensions of quality, access to staff, curricula, monitoring and evaluation, and management and funding have brought better solutions than existing ones. Many of the proposed changes are even worse compared to the current regulations, disrupting existing quality, not aimed at the welfare of children, and, indirectly and in the long term, the well-being of society as a whole. The introduction of changes would be a step back from the current situation. What does a specific change bring? The number of children enrolled in the group will not be prescribed or specified so that we can expect an increase in the number of children in groups above the current limit. Currently, in each Jaslic and kindergarten group, a teacher is working on 25 to 30 children, which has already damaged the quality of pre-school education. The introduction of changes means that even more young people will stay in a room of 30 square meters, less educators will care for them than is necessary, and an unprofessional bar that is cheaper. Note, the lack of educators can be compensated by enabling them to qualify as educators for all related professions, but this cannot in any way be limited only to teachers under a special programme for which at this time it is unclear what they will look like and exactly what they mean. In view of the lack of educators in the labour market, we agree with the temporary employment of related professions as a non-professional substitute in the event that no educators report to the competition, but only in a limited period of time until 2 g. Likewise, there is a great lack of place in kindergartens, and the means of setting up preschools are limited and insufficient, and the need for the development of nanny activities as an upgrade of childcare system for the creation of a legislative framework for nanny activity has created a basis for the safe and standardised implementation of this activity. This would allow self-employment of a part of the unemployed. Children with developmental difficulties are once again forgotten and not placed in the category can but instead of the sea, and gifted children are not even mentioned. This is one of the biggest discriminatory provisions contained in this law. What we insist on is that according to the needs of children with developmental difficulties, assistants and communication mediators must work in kindergarten. Yeah, right now it's like I said in every manger and kindergarten group on shift, one raiser per 25 to 30 kids. There is a need for additional employment of the educators themselves, at least 3 teachers in each group. Also reduce the number of children in groups to a maximum of 15 children in the group, then each child will receive adequate training during preschool education, unemployed parents will have a working relationship and will encourage future students to enroll in preschool education because work will await them in one of the preschool institutions after their studies. The Republic of Croatia, which is a signatory, is obliged to respect it until 2022. has not created a prerequisite for meeting that obligation. It reacted to the lack of capacity of educators and financial resources by adopting a bill that would lower the already questionable quality of early and pre-school education systems. The quality of this system is necessary for the good start of the optimal development of each child. What are the short-term measures that the Social Democrats Club insists on? Open up a number of kindergartens, ensure the smooth work of pre-school institutions during summer holidays, the obligation to include children with developmental disabilities, ensure that every kindergarten has a group that receives children whose parents work on shifts, work on Saturdays and Sundays where there is a need, enable the enrolment of children in pre-school programmes throughout the year, the possibility that unemployed parents can leave their child in kindergartens occasionally, the highest price of the programme should not exceed 10% of net average salaries, hire working therapists, JLS should be involved in co-financing of private and alternative kindergartens. The long-term measure on which the Social Democrats insist is to ensure a guarantee that every child with a year of age is a place in preschool education. Such a final bill does not alter working conditions, does not stop discrimination against children, educators, parents, does not provide equality of children with developmental difficulties, gifted children are not even mentioned, the advantages of enrolment are written about changes in funding is chaos, and about lack of professional staff is unprofessional and cheap. Since from the first to the last article there is no objective which this law should represent, which is equally accessible, quality and secure kindergarten for all children under the same conditions as proof of a number of amendments submitted by opposition clubs, the law should be rewritten and therefore the Social Democrats Club will reach a conclusion for the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105250	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Darko Klasic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105251	President, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers and respected colleagues, unfortunately for a large number of children and their parents in Croatia, the place in kindergarten is a thought noun, and many areas have no kindergartens or mangers at all. If he has them, there's a chronic lack of space. The participation of children in early and pre-school education programmes ranges from 0 to 70% while the national average is approximately 55%. Croatia decided to include 95% of children in early and pre-school education and education programmes in priorities and plans by 2030. By contrast, 93% of children aged up to 4 years have been enrolled in preschool education by the EU, while the situation is significantly different in terms of younger children. In the EU, you will not believe only 30% of children under the age of 3 attend early preschool education. So they have obviously big problems, too. Access and quality are two main issues of this programme, which are currently facing policymakers in both European countries. Enabling access to all without quality assurances may not bring the desired benefit to children. It is also not acceptable to provide high-quality early preschool education without providing sufficient capacity. That is why it has been and is still one of the main policy priorities in a large number and European countries. Different views in European countries on access and quality are reflected in the overall arrangement of early preschool education and education systems. If we want to improve the system and improve the fact that the state must be involved in this part of education, because there are huge differences in the budgetary opportunities of local self-government units that at the same time have autonomy regarding the decision-making of how much funds will be invested in early pre-school education. In addition to the infrastructure provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with an amount of 1.6 billion kuna from the National Recovery Plan to which all units of local self-government can apply, I think a tender has been opened since 1 May, thus planning to increase the capacity of pre-school institutions by almost 22,500 seats, but it is necessary here to amend the legal framework. The law proposes, among other things, the establishment of a national network of kindergartens to improve the planning of the needs of construction and upgrade of a pre-school institution with the aim of reducing the differences in development, thus enabling greater income of children in early and pre-school education programmes and what may be the most important, and often neglected here, we have also heard the possibility of providing means for the fixed sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of which is a unit of local and regional self-government and on the basis of the criteria of development. This regulation still needs to be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we welcome it anyway. It is also commendable that the Ministry of Science and Education listened to both the profession and gave up the idea that the number of children in educational groups is no longer prescribed by the state pedagogical standard. Although I do not think it is good that a proposal is accepted that allows primary education teachers to be hired to the job of an educator, and I consider it to be a clumsy and under-quality solution in order to replace the lack of professional staff. It is no secret that today many kindergartens are a big problem except for lack of space and poor conditions in which especially in Zagreb kindergartens one breeder works only on shifts with 20 and more children. And providing support for twenty two-year-olds in performing daily activities is very dangerous. We know ourselves when we can't go home with two kids and where we can handle 20 of them. No doubt because of the lack of professional staff, this is a major problem, and the bill solves the problem by enabling rapid retraining to acquire a teacher exclusively to teachers of primary education. The fact is that the educator is missing, but the proposed solutions don't seem to me to be the happiest, even though it's designed in the best of intentions. If this is absolutely necessary, teachers should also be able to work on the job of the breeder as an unprofessional replacement while raising the breeders should be acquired under the same conditions that apply to preschool children. I also believe that the possibility for children's kindergarten directors to be a person with a higher degree, i.e. Two years of school is not a good solution, given that all members of the expert team have completed high education. Why directors are not required to complete further education during the term of office in order to obtain a high degree of education. We also know that often in our education system, when someone comes to the principal’s post, it mainly includes a function that lasts for the rest of their lives. That's what most people think. The problem of preschool program, which is required for all children a year before school, is not implemented since parents do not enroll children, so the question remains how parents will be encouraged to meet the obligations of enrolment or to control the fulfilment of those obligations. Registration notices exist every year, but parents ignore them because they feel that their child is not ready for school so they will receive a delay or do not know that the program is mandatory and that the child must be enrolled. I would also refer to something that is not related to the law, and as I come from Zagreb, it is related to pre-school education and education in the City of Zagreb, I have even listed it in the replica of the minister, the secretary of state, as regards the proposal of the Zagreb City Board on the re-scheduling of local committees due to lack of capacity in kindergartens. I really don't understand where the idea of completely inadequate objects being repurposed for the stay of little children. In many of these facilities there are no adequate conditions concerning heating, sanitary knots and hot water. It is also unknown how much it will ultimately cost to change these spaces since they must comply with the DPS criteria, especially now that the NPOO has provided for the possibility of participation from these funds for the construction of new kindergartens. Local committees are rooms that serve citizens for various events, and I simply cannot understand how someone besides all the other possible empty city spaces even thought of such nonsense. In conclusion, I believe that these amendments to the law, with certain shortcomings, are nevertheless significantly improving the standard of preschool education and allow for improving the conditions in kindergartens both spatial and human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105252	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105253	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Assembly, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a law that has caused great interest in the profession, the public, and even scientists because it is a law that is very important to children and their education. In addition to the profession of the law, especially in the first reading and during the public consultation, it was indeed a huge disdain and concern for all actors. A number of trade unions, associations, educators, parents, sciences were written petitions, signatures were collected, protests announced, and all to point to shortcomings, but also to the adverse consequences of law-making. What represented the biggest concern was the possibility of placing beyond the strength of the state pedagogical standard on the minimum number of children per group, which would result in an increase in the number of children per group, and expected to trigger a number of sharp reactions. The national pedagogical standard is very important because it defines the legal conditions of those spatial, technical, humane, numbered, that must be ensured for children to pass quality through all educational educational processes in kindergarten, which, in addition to the appropriate and appropriate competences of breeders, influence the development of each child. It should be pointed out that kindergarten is crucial for detecting the child’s needs, but also for potential reasons, any failure could, unfortunately, have a negative impact on child rearing as well as on child rearing. What I must say, of course, depends on the county to the county, somewhere the situation is better, somewhere worse, but generally the working conditions of most preschool institutions have been alarming for a long time. Soon they start enrolling in kindergartens and mangers in 2022 and '23. which most parents represent exceptional stress because they do not know if they will even get a place for their child or children, although they are satisfying their conditions. This is because unfortunately in most kindergartens capacities are filled, and breeders are overloaded. What's very sad about every child is that kindergarten should never become a guardianship but should be an educational institution, which means that educators should be able to devote themselves to each child properly in accordance with his needs. Last year, we must not forget that in only four of the largest Croatian cities in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, thousands of children remain unrecorded. There is simply no place in city or private kindergartens, despite the fact that groups are filled and more than should be. The situation is unsustainable for parents, both for fosterers, and for the safety of children, but the solution is certainly not yet an additional fill-up and such a crowded group. We must work urgently to improve the quality of educational work in kindergartens just for the sake of well-being, but also for the safety of our children and these are not floscules, this is something that is necessary and necessary as soon as possible because the facts from which we cannot escape are that the kindergarten is chronically missing and that the educational groups are overcrowded. What the profession also sees as the problem of this legal solution is the possibility of hiring primary education teachers at the job of breeders in order to compensate for the lack of professional staff, but this really is an ad hoc solution because although the teacher is missing there is a big difference between these two jobs, between these two studies because post-students have to be trainees for 12 months, to pass a professional exam while the teacher, with rapid retraining, would have acquired the calling of the breeder. However, the final draft of the law has defined and strengthened the conditions for requalification or qualification as well as for the work of such a person because he cannot work on his own immediately, but can only work with another authorised breeder, but the profession is still not satisfied with such a legal solution because it is realistically a speedy solution, but the main problem continues to be pushed deeper under the carpet. The profession also points out that the attitude of the legislative proposal towards children with developmental difficulties is questionable because it remains only a possibility for a child who needs to be provided by an assistant or a communications intermediary. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 24.a. 3. does not specify the competences that this person must have, but only the degree of education indicated, and neither the working status nor the specific tasks of those persons is indicated. We know all about the longstanding problem of preschool institutions, but there is no concrete solution. Of course, it should be made clear that in all parts of Croatia the same situation is not the same. But where there are problems, concrete and long - term solutions should finally be found. I think it's in everyone's interest that our children get adequate preschool care and care. The emphasis is primarily on getting, and after that, to really be quality and thorough. It also needs to be helped by breeders who really have a lot of demanding work to do. The fact is that we need new kindergartens as soon as possible so that parents do not need to look for alternatives and are often very expensive. It is commendable that the legislator is concerned about the issue of child accommodation in kindergartens or a school institution in which preschool education is carried out, especially in rural areas, but the issue of financing of these obligations that should be in the jurisdiction or burden of units of local self-government remains open. I think it is important here to stress that the state must find funds in this budget in order to implement this law together with the units of local self-government. I appeal to the minister to listen to the arguments of the profession and to find out how, at the end of this whole story, only to meet the goals that we must achieve under the Barcelona Agreement, children do not suffer because for all of us parents, citizens, lawmakers would be inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105254	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105255	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, I would first refer to the statements by my colleague Oreskovic, who was amazed by my claim that all those who supported the abolition of the "mother raiser" measures promote the policy of death. The cancer of Croatian society's wounds is demographics and those who don't understand it live in a parallel world. Unlike my colleague Oreshkovic, I have been in the executive office for years and brought a series of measures that are very important for the demographic restoration of society precisely for families with 3 and more children. And I was the only one here in the Croatian Parliament to propose that the "mother breeders" measure be introduced at the country-wide level because it would especially come to terms in more passive areas where women have drastically lower salaries than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely in these parts that the demographic worst picture, from Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, Dalmatinska zagora, Banovina, Like. Unfortunately, the ruling turned it down. These same rulings accusing Mayor Tomasevic of abolishing the measure in the City of Zagreb. So cynicism and Phariseeism never ends. But let's go back to the law itself. The worst thing that can happen for one law when the law challenges you. That's exactly what's happening with this final bill. So among other things, many experts believe that this law must go to further work, such as the Department of Preschool Pedagoggogues of the City of Zagreb and associated members, including the City of Zagreb and more than 10 Croatian counties, the Croatian Psychological Chamber, the Department of Development Psychology of the Early and Preschool Ages of the Croatian Psychological Society, the Department of Preschool Logopedes of the Croatian Logopedic Society, the Department of Educational Rehabilitators of Preschool Education, the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters. Among the signatories who also consider this law two steps back are also Professor. Rika, Dr. Sc. Jasna Krstović, Prof. Dr.sc. Maja Ljubetić, Prof. Dr.sc Vesnica Milinarević, prof. dr.sc. Edith Slunjski, extraordinary professor. Goran Kujundzic, extraordinary professor Rosana Petani, extraordinary professor. Esmeralda Sunko, doc. dr.sc. Daniel Blanoša Costšelj, doc. dr.sc Tiana Borovac, doc. dr.sc. Branimir Mendesh, doc. dr.sc. Ksenija Romstein, doc. dr.sc. Ida Somoljani Tokić, doc. dr.sc. Ivana Visković, doc. dr.sc. Adriana Višnjević Jeftic, dr.sc. Tony Nebula, Dr. Sc. Višnja Vekić Kljaić and a number of others. And that just shows that people who have experience working with preschool children really have the right to say if something in the law is wrong and something needs to be changed. Namely, this law, which has a series of shortcomings, has huge powers and it adopts a regulation that will determine the number of children in educational groups. There is a collapse of the state pedagogical standard, which was voted right here in the Croatian Parliament. In addition, teachers of primary teaching or classrooms are allowed to work in kindergartens with mandatory retraining and thus belittled exactly what the State Secretary says is one of the most educated in the EU. So the question arises whether it is not discriminatory to allow one profession related to retraining because of the alleged lack of breeders, while not offering reciprocity or to allow breeders to also teach in primary schools class class class class with the possibility of retraining. It can't be an excuse to be a lack of breeder on the market. We have years of lack of doctors but I have not heard from any ministry to offer the possibility of requalification to veterinarians, dentists to become doctors of general profession or specialists because we do not have enough on the market. You should also ask yourself why there is an outflow from the profession. Unfortunately, the information we have shows us a worrying fact that many breeders are working on replacements with short work contracts, and some even 10 or more years on contracts that are not in line with the Labour Act. It is precisely that uncertainty that has prompted many breeders to other jobs as well as to leave the country. However, there is no end and trainees can collect short replacements their traineeships month by month to collect the necessary 12 months and obtain the right to pass a professional exam. We're wondering if the state has made a commitment to a traineeship then it has to find a way to secure it. With this kind of approach, we will find it difficult to attract, let alone retain a professional fit in preschool institutions. And not to mention the unequal economic prices of kindergartens because they are mostly owned by JLS, so parents or children don't have the same initial positions because they depend on whether they are born or whether they live in a richer municipality that will finance a 100% amount of kindergarten as some cities and municipalities have, or whether they want in a poorer municipality or a city where parents are forced to pay per thousand and more kuna per child. It just shows that unfortunately this law needs to be done and I hope that the opinion of the profession will be respected and that the proposed amendment will be respected in order for the quality that we have in kindergartens to remain at that level today, rather than the two scales below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105256	On behalf of the Croatian Club, on behalf of the SDP Club will now speak a respected representative and vice president of Sabin Glasovac's assembly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say a few words about this final proposal of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which I am first sorry for not changing his name because we need to talk about early and preschool education and education, and not just preschool education and education, this is the first. Secondly, it is commendable that the initiative and drive of this law, in accordance with European trends, commit to the Republic of Croatia until 2030. increase the coverage of children in kindergartens from the fourth year until school departure to 97% and there is nothing controversial about it. It is not disputed that the government plans to open 20,000 new kindergartens through NPOOs in a way that builds new buildings. In new buildings, however, we have not deprived even the past few years when EU funds were available. However, our key problem is not to look at the long-term, not to look visionary, and not to see what we will do with these buildings when we provide them in a way that we will succeed in achieving what we all need to be a key goal, which is actually to give a key right to every child on an affordable and high-quality wound and preschool education. In order for us to succeed, we must ensure that there are several preconditions, which is accessibility, price accessibility and quality of early and preschool education. The two key problems facing local administrations and self-government are now key. One is that when you have a lot of money in the budget, it does not guarantee that JLS and its head of education, and especially this primary part of education will be a priority. We can see that through the City of Zagreb. For years there was money, there was a huge budget, but the former few mayors did absolutely nothing to build and secure new kindergartens. So today we are in a situation to talk about a measure that was actually meant to reduce the pressure on kindergartens that were not built in a way that prevents children from going to kindergarten while defending women from going to the labour market. This is a path that we must not go to because on many occasions it has been proven by research on why it is extremely important that each child attends a school, a form of preschool education programme. Osijek is not far off when we talk about respecting or not respecting the state pedagogical standard. That's one problem. Others, the problem is, are the JLS, often the smaller ones that don't have so much resources, but they have a feeling for a child and they provide a sufficient number of kindergartens, and they even co-finance nicely so that the less burden would fall on those parents that they have to pay the fabulous prices of kindergartens for which they don't have money, but what happens is that they're facing this other problem that de facto doesn't have the funds to maintain the cold drive and the costs that those spinsters carry behind them and that problem won't go away when we build new kindergartens by 2030, when we provide another 22 thousand new places, they won't, that problem will just deepen. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because one of the key obstacles in order for Croatia as a country to succeed in meeting this goal is that we have 97% of the children's coverage by the time they go to school for the fourth year in kindergartens, and that's the political issue. It's one of the key political issues of the Republic of Croatia. This way of funding simply more if it's been as sustainable as it is, and it's not, it's not going to be that way anymore. Why? As a result, if we assume that the financing is exclusively in the jurisdiction of JLS from capital investments in infrastructure to financing current maintenance costs, directors, employee equipment, this means that there are 556 possible forms of their arrangement. The JLS autonomy in the approach to providing early and pre-school education services means that although liability is left at local level, there are no norms or standards set at the state level concerning the price or financing of early and pre-school education and lack of any unification, the equation mechanism between local self-government units will also strengthen the inequality between these local self-government units, thus the enrolment rate in the most developed local self-government units is 5 times higher than those in the least developed, so some local self-government units have over 75%, and some reach barely 30%, which is very clearly seen from UNICEF sources. On average in 2018, a little more than 10% of the budget is spent on early and preschool education and education, on mangers and kindergartens, which is the second largest financial expenditure after road infrastructure. Decentralisation of powers without providing funds and significant responsibility for services directly leads to significant differences in costs and means of financing, which ultimately leads to the child's ability to access early and pre-school education and education seriously affecting the place of residence. This means that the child who was born in Umag, his parent will pay zero, or will not pay her at all, and the child who was born, for example, in Konavla, will pay the parent 800 kuna. Not fair. Not fair. The children are not responsible for where they were born and what the priorities of their unit of local self-government are and that, ladies and gentlemen, we must seriously consider this. At this point, in Croatia, 0.59% of GDP is allocated for early and preschool education and education, and out of which only 1%, of which 0.59%, 1% comes from the state budget, the rest comes from the local self-government unit, that's where this balance has to be made. Another obstacle to the intention of this law, equal quality education is actually this lack of professional staff and the introduction of related professions in the practice of early preschool education and education. Okay. We don't have enough professional personnel. All right. A temporary measure may be to allow teachers of primary education to be requalified within 2 years, to enter kindergartens, but not under the conditions that you have prescribed. They can't have special, they have to be treated as trainees, like everyone else, they have to pass a professional exam, they can be a general part, say, ignored, but simply can't and shouldn't be a long-term measure. I ask you, if we knew that in 2018, after one study, the need for educators was about 3,000, and every year we enter a quota about 500, I ask you, what we did, or what you do in parallel with this Law, to provide in 2030 with representatives of the university an adequate number of professional staff who will be able to carry the quality of work in educational groups in kindergartens. And to conclude, that is, to bring an end. The intention is one thing, and the path is another. Can't be dreams are ours, or, I don't know, the car's ours, and the gas's yours. So we have to take over as part of the state's responsibility, think about a new model of co-financing so that the child's right to be the right independent of his parent's property or where he was born, is also to take care of those who work in kindergartens, so that their labour rights are not different or depending on their place of work. This Law must be fair and must guarantee equality for absolutely every child in Croatia. I'm going to say one more thing in an individual debate, we're going to have a lot of amendments, I haven't looked back on individual parts of the law that certainly has good ones, there are fewer good solutions, but I think we are facing a big challenge, we need to take the gravity of the situation and not look for an instant solution to withdraw as much funds from the EU funds as possible. It's okay, but we need to think about sustainability, how no child can lose their kindergartens, how to make as little cost as possible, that the price is not an obstacle for a child to go to kindergarten and third, that the people who work in them work as much in normal conditions and can give children equal quality education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105258	The next club of representatives will be that of HDZ, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Rada Simicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105259	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, we are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, and we support this excellent intention aimed at making early and preschool education the best, and this is extremely important for the full development of personality. Various scientific research has shown that children who attended kindergarten or preschool education system have achieved a better result at school. Early preschool education and education is the basis of the lifelong education of the individual through which he creates, providing equal opportunities for all. By making a decision on compulsory preschool attendance in 2014 for all children aged 6.5 and 7 years and two years before school, children with developmental difficulties and children whose Croatian language is not their mother tongue are allowed equal educational opportunities for their children in Croatia. In addition, it is important to point out that the EU Council Resolution on the Strategic Framework for European Cooperation in the field of education and training in the direction of the European area of education and beyond 2021 to 30 is the proposed participation of children in early and pre-school education and education of at least 96% from 3.g. to include in compulsory primary education. Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, agreed on this EU-level objective that needs to be achieved. According to the National Development Strategy, children's coverage from the fourth year to the start of compulsory pre-school education should be increased to 97% by 2030. The rate of enrolment in kindergarten and its growth are very uneven and unevenly distributed throughout our homeland. The entry rate in the most developed JLS somewhere is 5 times higher than in JLS which are less developed. This assumes a serious injustice of the system because the child’s chance to take advantage of the early preschool education system depends largely on where we live. I hope that this law will resolve these dilemmas and that all children throughout our beautiful country will have equal conditions and will be included in primary education, i.e. early and preschool education and education. As a result, it is still necessary to work on expanding the capacity to accommodate children in kindergartens. The first prerequisite for good planning and creating new capacities is the creation of a network of children's kindergarten schools at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and this law suggests that it be the minister who will bring about a national network of kindergartens. Although we have built, reconstructed in the last year, upgraded a total of 498 kindergartens totaling 2 billion kuna, and increased not only the accommodation capacity but also the coverage of children in pre-school education programmes. Additional rights from the NPOO amounting to a billion and 200 million kuna are provided for, which is an exceptional opportunity that will allow children to enter children's kindergarten for all. So this upgrade would actually expand capacity by 22,000 and 500, 500 children. The increase in the number of children is included in the programme of early and pre-school education, while retaining the existing quality of the requirements and ensuring staff conditions for working with children, first of all higher education educators, first of all, first-time master of early and pre-school education and education. Because of the welfare of children, since research clearly suggests that only high - quality pedagogical programmes lead to positive education and educational impact, i.e. social, cognitive, emotional, and physical development of children. The minimum prerequisite for the expansion of the availability of the preschool programme is to retain the degree of ratio of the number of breeders and children. A sufficient number of educators, and thus an increased coverage of children in preschool programmes, can be ensured by amending provisions that will allow trainees, as well as persons without a professional examination, to establish a working relationship for an indefinite period of time, provided that a professional examination is passed within the prescribed period, as well as a way to legally allow the transfer of workers from one kindergarten to another kindergarten. In institutions where there is insufficient room for enrolment, all children need to make criteria in order to have an advantage, an advantage in enrolment. This refers to children born until April 1 of the current year and who were 4 years old. Life, they should have the advantage of, after that, the parent of disabled children of the Homeland War, children from a family with three and more children and, etc. Furthermore, with the aim of creating additional staff conditions in pre-school education and education, this legislative proposal provides the possibility of hiring primary education teachers to implement pre-school programmes not only in school institutions but in kindergartens with the obligation to acquire qualifications for teachers. This is where we call on the article. 11. The Croatian classification framework where it says that if a professional or raiser does not appear, a primary education teacher may be hired, provided that he or she acquires a qualification within 2 g. lay down the intended colleges. So, we have to clarify here, the teacher can't compete with the competition as well as the breeder where the breeder exists, so the automatism breeder has the advantage, and in those places where the breeder doesn't appear then a primary education teacher can be hired under these conditions. It is also necessary to agree at the level of the entire Croatian criteria and colleges which the teacher will submit in his requalification. In my opinion, a college for teachers and educators is a co-operation of kindergartens and schools, it is necessary to coordinate preschool curricula and 1st grade of primary school in order to facilitate the transition and define who will and where will implement preschool programmes. We cannot change the Law on Preschool Education without actually changing the Law on Fundamental Education to coordinate preschool curricula and the 1st reason i.e. to coordinate educational work in the first cycle of education and education. Adversaries in kindergarten to work with children with disabilities cannot be people who will say get a certain qualification and bring them into the same position as educators with a college degree and work experience. The research carried out has actually shown that they do not have enough competence to work with these children and it is important to point out that it enables the employment of a third breeder or assistant for children with developmental difficulties as well as a professional communications intermediary in institutions that conduct early and pre-school education. The HDZ Club will submit an amendment here. It is also very important for the end to emphasize the availability of enrolment in kindergarten by electronic means. We ourselves witnessed that we had a good thing here when it came to enrollment in high school. So a critical mass was created which was satisfied with this, so I think that by introducing electronic enrolment into kindergarten it will make it much easier to record, data entry deadlines, as well as to protect data from abuse, destruction of losses, unauthorised changes or access, and in accordance with the provisions of the list that are being edited, protection of personal data as well as data management for an individual institution. The HDZ Club thanks for the adoption of the law to the Ministry of Science and Education. It is considered high-quality and necessary to strengthen pre-school education in the educational vertical, and this HDZ law will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105260	The Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105261	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State with an associate, good afternoon. So on behalf of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia, I want to tell those few who are looking at us and to point out once again that the Croatian Parliament as well as children on the subject of politics and the economy is a legislative body in which most people form in a way that 76 people create that majority and then supports everything that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends here, and the rest of us, especially parliamentary opposition representatives, are statisticists who are trying to point out some things. However, this is the occasion that one law of opposition advocates can defend because not one but 8 as far as I saw on the memo, at least 8 responsible professional, professional associations sent their comments to page 16. We are the Croatian Parliament, we are a representative of the Croatian people. And if that's what these people tell us and people ask us to resist so much? What's your interest in not accepting what the waist says? And the Croatian public must know that we opposition MPs all can't get together on a pile of these 76 hands and say don't do such a law. This is a bad legal solution because it's directly related to demographics, directly. So, some of them were surprised, I wrote songs about it a long time ago when it wasn't supposed to be about the white plague. I was talking about how less and less of us. There is no place in Croatia where you can get the exact information of how many Croats have moved out? You know where you can get that? Ireland, Germany. But in Croatia, no. We're a country where no 200, 300, 400,000 people are missing. We're a country that had four and a half million inhabitants until recently. We're missing 700,000 people. And this is what we're talking about. We're talking about the future of the country. We are talking about the future of a country that HDZ says will have 3.2 million inhabitants in 2050. That's what the Energy Efficiency Strategy says. That's your plan. We're a country that has 500,000 voters more than there are people. It's a fiction. We don't have enough labor right now, but the problem is money. I'm sorry I haven't been in a heated debate that's certainly been on this subject so far because I've been on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where we've been discussing the Mine Action Report for the past year. We spent 400 million kuna on demining Croatia. Did we sow those mines and contaminate? Where are your coalition partners? So ask them who poured and shined and how and where it goes that we spend 400 million kuna a year and that in the next four years we'll spend a billion and a half. How much money we can save and how many jobs we could open up these educators who work for modest and minimal benefits a very difficult and responsible job. So, I just wanted to because I'm not some great expert on this area, but neither my sister nor I went to kindergarten. Now some of you are going to use it to tell her that's what you can see. It may be, but on the other hand, I'd say our late mother didn't raise us badly. And I think that parent is that first instance and surely the permanent seal of everything that we become through the process of education. So here's a respected secretary of state, tell your minister and your staff that the Club For Fair Croatia supports these eight professional associations. We support their intensity and intensity of all those well-intentioned people here who want to help you make a better law. And they've already spoken to their colleagues, so I'm going to tell you again why it's not called the Early and Preschool Law? What's the matter with the word early? When we all know that's the case, and that's how modern the methodology talks and orders in the end line. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mostly in art. The 24th Proposer states that the work of the breeder can be done by a person who has completed a teaching study, and the profession tells you that some other professions can do so. The profession tells you it's not good to have them within 2 years. From the day of the start of the working relationship they must acquire some qualification, so de facto admit that they will 2.g. I don't know if you'd call me at some firm, you wouldn't have given you two years. to get some qualifications, that's not good. The reasons indicated by the profession are above all a lack of educators who can compensate for the possibility of obtaining a qualification to call all related professions and account for it. Another thing that tells you that insecurity of employment is something that makes young people and education more likely to work as breeders. Research, we often call here for research, although these researches would have a lot to say, but they show, so let's believe that 20% of the children's kindergarten employees are working on contracts, so who's going to stay in this country and work without at least a secure job. And the third thing they point out to you is that a large number of breeders, due to inadequate working conditions and low wages, seek and find jobs in other professions, unfortunately also in other countries. So I'd just end up saying on behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia that we're people who are aware that politics is ideology, that's what makes us different, that's why we have the right, left side, we have this environment. Politics is ideology, none of us will come here and say that it's against helping our children, no one will come and say that it's against making progress, that our economy is growing, no one, but we're ideologically different, and that's why voters have to distinguish us. My last message I'm gonna text from this pay phone because of course I know I'm ineffective and of course I know I can't change anything and we know it and at the club, you know all the expensive opponents are that we all need money. Money is a ladies and gentlemen problem in Croatia because our public debt is at the level at which, however, these 350-'60 billion kuna is not gone, these 350-'60 billion kunas are in the pockets of similar and it is normal that the ruling structure cannot provide enough money for all that should be provided for the simple reason why it must take care of its love, it must take care of a strong army of voters who receive money for one reason only, and that is when elections come to round up the status quo again, and Croatia needs change, Croatia needs to change everything from the Election Law, and so on. When that happens then we will be able to speak competently from this pay phone, then we will speak differently and then we will be able to do something for you esteemed citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are watching us right now. Thank you very much. Of course we won't uphold this law, it's a fus note.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105262	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105263	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will begin again from the sentence we have heard here from the esteemed secretary, so it is irresponsible not to accept the amendments to this law because we are going to miss the use of funds from the famous NPOO. So, very often here at the pay phone, we're being threatened by the amendments to the law and the laws, if you don't support this law, we're going to lose billions of dollars, and you're going to be guilty of billions not coming to Croatia. However, whether this NPOO is always an excuse for both the bad laws and the bad proposals that come to us here in the assembly. Maybe I should start with Eurostat's latest data on whether it's in Croatia. Croatia and Poland are in 2019. were the only EU Member States in which only 3/5 children were 3 years of age. By school age received some formal care, more precisely such care in Croatia received 56.9% of children from 3.g. up to school age, and 61.3% of children of the same age group in Poland. At the same time in the Netherlands, France, Slovenia, Sweden, Spain, Belgium, more than 95% of children aged 3. By school age it was included in formal care, i.e. early and preschool care and education systems. Eurostat data further show that 47.1% of children under 3.g. In Europe, only parents care while in Croatia the number is 60.8% and we are among the four countries with the highest share of children by 3.g. lives that only parents care about. More than Croatia has only Slovakia, Latvia and Bulgaria. And of course, here is to achieve these high goals of a wide range of children in early and preschool education, and here are the legislative changes. While we are talking about these legislative changes right now, the unsatisfactory profession is protesting here in front of the assembly, you can also hear how they play and whistles, there are them in Rijeka, Split, Osijek, Pula and Čakovec, and in fact it's an amazing fact for me, and I've also asked in a replica of the secretary if he's looked at the remarks of that profession, whether he's looked at the amendments they've sent to all the clubs and I think there's even been an open letter to the public. So it's amazing that there was no interest in seeing these amendments. But here, I hope that it will be looked at as an example and an amendment, or a proposal for an amendment which here I am sure all and the opposition clubs are proposing. As union representatives themselves say, they do not think that this law will therefore further disrupt something special to disrupt the quality of child care. However, it will not bring improvements. Therefore, we can still expect a drain of professional staff and a lack of interest in working in this activity resulting from unstable working conditions and wages, or if you do not invest in people, you cannot even get quality. Preschool education and education as we have already heard is funded from the local budget. There is therefore no single standard. We can say you have 556 different standards of conditions of that pre-school education, different conditions and salaries of breeders, other kindergarten workers as well as the economic price of kindergartens all depends, in fact, on the level or strength of each local budget. In some units local self-government up to 30, 40% of the budget is waste on funding early and pre-school education and education. With these legal changes, the state introduces some kind of model whereby it will provide funds for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of local self-government units. However, the criteria and criteria on the basis of which these funds will be provided will be laid down by a government regulation which should be adopted here within 9 months of the entry into force of the legislative amendments. In practice, it should, so that's what it's supposed to look like. In the event of a lack of money in a local budget, therefore, there will be no reduction in the salaries of kindergarten employees, nor the number of employees, or of kindergarten groups. However, that is what paper would say all suffers and whether it will look that way or whether it is political according to the old custom, the funds will be shared depending on party membership. So, if he's a major or mayor of HDZ, he'll get the funding, if he's from another party, then he won't get the funding. So it wouldn't be the first time this has happened to us, and often you're actually calling yourself on the vertical. Here is a new candidate for mayor in Split, whose first sentence was: "Of course you can't do anything without connection to the central." Now, here's the thing, I'm warning you something that we're all used to, and it's no wonder to citizens, it's no wonder it's going to work that way. A month ago, so other than these protests, which are now here in several major cities a month ago, you had protests that may have been undetected in the public in 53 cities in Croatia, organised by the Sidro Association, four professional associations, four major unions were held protests both parents and educators at preschool institutions protesting the amendments to this law. And here I will now, I have already read once in free speech, but here I will now take advantage of the opportunity and I will also read it here in an open letter sent to the Parliament and to the Government by scientists and experts in the early and preschool education system 22, expressing their disagreement with such a relationship with the profession and science in which the Institute of Public Advisory is used as a cover for the adoption of regulations which, for the whole activity, represents a step back. I asked, so this letter came out sometime around the time of the first reading of the law, I wrote here recently, yesterday, the day before this scientist was on the list, if anything had changed, if their remarks were still standing after this second reading whether anything had changed. So they said nothing changed. I can feel free to bring out anything they said back here. So they, I quote, say: “We responsibly argue that the proposal for legal solutions is not in line with the basic European documents which the Republic of Croatia is a signatories, which are defined as the right of each child to access the quality RPO and the role it plays in setting firm foundations for lifelong learning and the welfare and development of the child. The European Parliament has called on Member States to improve quality and make available early and pre-school education, and to approach the problem of insufficient infrastructure offering quality and available services to the RPO. The Republic of Croatia responded to the call for a bill that addresses the problem of accessibility by reducing the quality of the national system, although it is known that only high-quality early and pre-school education services function as a developmental assumption. I therefore further quote their letter "on the comparative analysis of the proposed legal solutions with key European documents, in particular with the principles of the quality framework in early and pre-school education and education. None of the five dimensions of quality, access, staff, curricula, monitoring and evaluation, and management and financing of the new legal solution have made better solutions than the existing ones. In fact, many of the proposed ones are worse compared to the current regulations, disrupting the existing quality, not aimed at the welfare of children, and, indirectly and in the long term, society as a whole. We highlight provisions that are particularly worrying. The interventions in the process of amending the national pedagogical standard of document adopted by the Assembly under the decision of the Secretary-General are justified by the concern that the overall working conditions of kindergartens will be used, in particular with regard to the criteria for the number of children in educational groups, as a tool for greater coverage of children, by increasing their number of children regardless of the spatial and humane conditions. Provisions relating to the curiculum shall be inextricably indivisible, termological and shall be in line with the current official document. National curricula for early and preschool education. Third provisions relating to the possibility of employment indefinitely and primary education teachers and the possibility of obtaining the qualification of a university first-grader by virtue of additional competences, the reasoning of the applicant that the provision of the necessary professional staff shows deep ignorance, the downsizing of the educational profession. So here's why we scientists say in a letter that works in this part of the education system we don't support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements. As I said to the associations, the profession was filed by a series of amendments. We'll propose them here through the club, too, I believe the other clubs. Here I really hope that some of the amendments will be accepted by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105264	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Good afternoon, everyone. Next up, it's the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club on behalf of whom counterpart Davor Dretar will speak, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. How important children's kindergarten is the fact that it entered a Croatian phrase. When we read somewhere that someone's blacked out, that some money's gone somewhere, then often, in fact, extremely often in the media space can read or hear the question of how many kindergartens we could build for it. So we're all aware, the public is aware and I'm sure we're here as much as the kindergarten is important, so let's learn from this lesson and lesson from these people standing out here in the rain and not just here in Zagreb, but throughout Croatia and standing before and standing still. This is an extremely important law early and preschool education and education are extremely important in an early formative phase of a person. Let's go through some items. Thanks again to all those e-mails, messages, direct conversations, they've been very helpful, they have every right to hear their voice here again. One of the topics is found here in Article 16. the applicable law, in which the provision on the obligation to align working time of kindergarten with the needs of children and employees of parents stands out. In order to properly respond to the same need, it is, of course, necessary to adjust the working time of pre-school institutions in cooperation with the working parents and the basis of documentation which these parents agree to present to kindergarten as well as allow for the possibility of checking their working status but with respect to possible short-term changes in kindergartens can and of course should be adapted to their working hours. One more good decision, but I'm asking if kindergartens have the capacity to do it, if they have enough people to work in one, two shifts. Can these breeders and breeders endure that pressure? It is necessary to further define the way, conditions and requirements for enrolment of children in kindergartens which will not lead to a difference depending on where the child is born but will enable the children to have the same conditions when enroling in preschool institutions. Laying this issue on acts brought on its own by the founder of kindergartens opens up the possibility of major differences in the treatment of children and parents, i.e. it clearly promotes discrimination. It's 2022, we really need to make sure that kindergarten enrollment can also be conducted by electronic means. Since this type of entry is increasingly common and the ministry has already announced the establishment of e-turns, we propose that electronic entries are made available in all areas of the Republic of Croatia over a period of two years and that this is clearly defined by law. The proposal is that Article 20(8) of this Act reads: ‘Infections in kindergartens may be carried out by electronic means’. Within a period of two years from the entry into force of this Act, a national register of pre-school children must be established and electronic enrolment must be made available to pre-school institutions in the field of the entire Republic of Croatia. Follow us, of course, the point everyone was talking about. Article 24(4) of the final proposal states that a teacher’s work may be carried out by a person who has completed a teaching study, etc. etc. provided that, within two years of the date of establishment of the working relationship, the qualifications of the educator is obtained by the recognition of acquired learning outcomes in the study for the teacher and the differences of the teacher retraining programme or the qualification of teachers for the purpose of obtaining the qualification of the educator. Here we absolutely agree, we agree with the letter of professional and others that this attitude should be opposed to the experts of early, preschool and education and to the calling of first-rate and magistrates of the same. The lack of educators can be compensated by allowing for the qualification of educators to be called by all related professions, but this should not be limited only to teachers under a special programme for which, as I and in the replica, it is not quite clear what they will look like and exactly what it implies. Of course, there should be absolutely, since there is a lack of educators on the labour market to agree with the temporary employment of related professions at the place of the educator as unprofessional substitutes in the event that no educators report to the competition. Only that period should be limited to two years. Many people here have also talked about the financing of kindergartens, so there is a great basis for inequality, and it is primarily viewed, understood in the financial state of a particular unit of local self-government, so municipalities or cities. The burden of funding is on them, there are very marked and large differences present. In order to ensure equal opportunities for every child in Croatia, discrimination against the place of birth, life and work is necessary. In this respect, it is primarily necessary to define a unique methodology for calculating the economic price of kindergartens. It is also undeniable that many smaller units of local self-government from their limited budgets are not and will not be able to provide sufficient funding for early and pre-school education, and I am here absolutely in agreement with many MPs and deputies who have said that co-financing or full funding by the state is necessary. Finally, we can add that unfortunately working conditions make it impossible to apply all the competences and skills that teachers have and can give children preschool age. The fact is that the only funds provided by the Ministry of Science and Education, i.e. from the state budget, are approximately 25 kuna for each child of the preschool programme. This country's attitude towards this first and most important step in institutional education is unacceptable. Teacherly to regulate with regulations governing the organisation of primary schools and the fact that salaries of primary school employees are secured from the funds of the state budget should be directed and thought that all educational workers, or all children's kindergarten workers, should be equally important to the Ministry of Science and Education. And that we are not going through all these items right now, the fact is that these protests are speaking enough and today's debate here in the Croatian Parliament speaks enough about the fact that this law is problematic. If we had a problem, when we're generated to be honest, or when we simplify it, let's be honest, no one would want to be in the position of Mr. Secretary of State or any people who should be writing one of these laws because they're in a lot of trouble. We miss kindergarten, we've got lots of kids, we're missing highly educated personnel. And then what does that tell us? That we're hostages of decades and decades of wrong politics. We are many times, we often warn from this pay phone that the Croatian educational system is not adapted to the needs of the Croatian market. That's what we've talked about dozens and dozens of times, and obviously we're gonna have to do it again. We must ask the question whether in Croatia we have a sufficient number of adequately educated persons to implement the law as it currently looks and of course when it is voted here in the Croatian Parliament. What would possibly be the motive of a teacher at school to decide to go to kindergarten and for two years to requalify as a breeder about it, of course, we can only speculate. In any case, the law that brought people to the streets, not only today, but in the past few weeks and months, and I'm afraid that even more will take them out on the streets, is not good and, of course, it's almost impossible to support them, so I believe that's how it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105266	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives HSS and the Workers' Front, the distinguished representative Katarina Peović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105267	Good afternoon. First of all, hello to workers and workers, educators and educators who are standing in the rain in Mark’s square and listen to this debate, hoping for some positive solutions to their problems but also to the problems of children and parents who have fallen for their shoulders. First of all, I want to say that they are often called employees, they are workers, they are often called aunts from miles of time, but they are breeders, they deal with education and education, a very important sector, a segment of society. Therefore, our remarks and our amendments will follow their proposals sent to us by thousands of educators and other employees in kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia gathered in an initiative composed of SIDRO organisations, the 4 largest trade unions SOMK, SRPOH, SOOH, SIKD and 4 professional associations of educators from Vukovar, Dubrovnik, Čakovec and Zagreb, but on behalf of more than 20,000 parents who by petition stop the announced amendments and supplement of the Law on Preschool Education and Education. Yesterday in that same square of Mark's was an assistant protest in the classroom. So the assistant in teaching children with developmental difficulties. The difficulties mean that they are faced with, not only parents and all children, but also assistants who are in a very awkward position of preeminent working conditions. There are very similar problems both in each other and every day we see people, workers, workers who actually protest from this educational sector in Mark’s square and warn us of their difficult status. Very often, it's about good-looking workers. Croatia is at the very top of its beautiful work in Europe. Very often I have also talked to teachers and Mark’s square, very often it happens that in this educational group often means having workers who come only for a change, that is what we have to change in another law, that is, the Labour Act that does not allow a worker to actually change a reunited worker who is on sick leave or on, workers who are on maternity leave without ever being or for a very long time being employed, and thus it undermines the character of the profession and the dignity of the profession itself. In addition to being undermined by what has been said so many times, this is to allow that the qualifications are not respected means employees in kindergartens or fosterers and educators. It's really about the degradation of the profession because I know the secretary of state here said it's not comparable to the health system, but believe me, it's very complex, I think and you know for a fact that I don't have to interpret it as a complex sector that may not be a surgical job, but it really shouldn't be ignored. Children of that age reach or face or perhaps even with the first situations of inequality, meaning the unequal conditions of life that many have already reminded, and even in this law we have the opportunity to see it in different environments. And these are the signs of workers and workers standing by to say so on the first line of defense and who in amazing conditions are trying to deal with the facts. Because watch out for their shoulders, those facts that we often don't want to face here, which is poverty, so we're one of the poorest countries in Europe, and that's what really breaks into those who are the most sensitive. So yesterday we had assistants in training for children with special needs, today we have educators who really don't work in working conditions that are normal and who are favourable. They told me everything, so while I was talking to them outside. There are no two educators, no two educators in the task force, that's impossible. So that's working conditions are impossible. It means to me in college if we work with students and if there's less of us, it's not gonna feel that way, it's to raise teachers when there's a shortage, or if there's one teacher, not two in the working group. These are the conditions in which social differences and the inability to achieve educational goals are really only deepened, and then this vertical that begins begins from that moment on. In that sense, I would ask another question of something that is not set here and what we in the Workers' Front have repeatedly asked as a question of preschool is indeed the first stage of that education, education and education. So 2014 preschool programme was introduced as mandatory. If the preschool program is required, why isn't it free? So why do parents have to pay for preschool if it's a mandatory program? It's just like saying it's the first grade of elementary school, so the program that's being paid. Of course, that's where they're going to tell us again that there's no money, that it's probably going to collect the whole system again, but that's a fact. So if preschool is mandatory it should actually be free, it should be co-financed or fully funded. As far as the law itself is concerned, and to what we here will submit some amendments will mainly be related to the working conditions of the educator and the educator. We'll concentrate on those amendments. We will certainly focus on what everyone has mentioned, which is discrimination against the educator. We will point out that there is no such type of requalification in the world, that there is what teachers and educators emphasized differences in content. That is why the problem is that class classes, or class teachers, become educators. There's a substantial difference. So there's really a foundation of profession that's not comparable. The differences in content, access and application of acquired knowledge of the two studies of the classroom and preschools I think are so large differences that it's actually very difficult to compare these two expert frames. It is clear that the Ministry of Science is trying to solve two problems in this way, and one means excess educators, lack of educators and extra teachers. But we have to ask why there is a lack of educator. Why did that interest become so unpopular? Should we not restore true dignity and dignity and make people choose that profession? I have a few friends and friends who are in this profession who really experience their work hard and hard, because the conditions in which they do these jobs are very often at the border, indeed at the border of normal ones. And when we say that they're at the border of normal, I'll say again when the professor at the university teaches and has a problem with some logistics means things then it seems in one way dramatic, and certainly when you have small children from 4 to 6 years old, so you don't have that logistics, then maybe it's as often as in the Parliament I'll say it. It's going to hurt us anyway, to our souls. So we'll definitely react to that. What the profession has said here, and what would really be a solution to the problem, is really emphasising and insisting that one educator should never be alone in the group and that two educators should be prescribed in each shift, in each group of two people on each shift. It is a minimum to consider their work to be dignified and to be able to do their job in the right way. It should certainly be emphasized here that what this law was intended to create, is the possibility of increasing the coverage of children in the early and preschool education system. And here I can say that this coverage of education extends the coverage of children in the early preschool and education system should really be the goal, although at times this is a piece of work, so even with these discussions with some I'm going to say the traditional values now that I don't have time to go to the lab. But it really means first and primary socialization of children must be an imperative for us to insist on in our amendments as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105268	Thank you very much, dear colleague. This is what we're done with the club fairs. We're starting individual debates. First of all, the esteemed colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next in line is the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105269	I'm going to start with what's really bothering us the most, and that's what the fruits of today's debate will be. Is there any will in the competent authorities given the number of amendments that you know will be discussed tomorrow, that you may appreciate some of it. You have the opportunity and answer me after my individual debate and any other parliamentary representative because that's what we're interested in here. This pay phone does not serve to talk exclusively about the problems we face but rather to see if our solutions can come up with a positive echo, and the solutions most of the opposition has offered are solutions that advocate the profession, so the success of this debate would be to surprise that in the end we have at least one part of the accepted amendments that are also professional, which will come from a large part of the opposition and that is what we are fighting for here today. I hope we're not talking in vain and you're going to have a hearing about all these very specific suggestions or else I don't know if there's any point in just pointing to problems. Tomorrow, when we have a debate on amendments, and that is why I am stressing this today is about a form in which in practice nothing changes because you will only say that you accept or reject them, but today there is still room to move and I hope that together we can find a solution that will be better because our key goal is to meet the criteria and cover more children by preschool education and education will not be achieved by such legal changes. We will continue to have breeders who justifiably flee the system after 10 to 15 years. Work because I can't stand the pressure and stress that brings them the way they do their job today. We won't change it even if we introduce an unprofessional frame if we requalify only teachers to fill this hole as a temporary solution in the lack of breeders, but we can afford to have a third person, one type of carer, not a professional person who will be present with the breeder and who will do other jobs, help and be an helper while the raiser is always there with our children because I don't know which number of parents even have children in kindergartens are aware of how it really looks in practice. I'll say it again, the children are guarded by angels while the other children are getting weary. What else do you think is true happiness that there are no more difficult situations and accidents in these workplaces, given the dangers that our youngest members of society are exposed to daily, as well as the breeders. There were cases where children walked out of kindergarten and in the end the breeders themselves would receive notices before they were fired, regardless of what they had previously warned that not all safety conditions had been met, that there were no appropriate locks to keep those children within the fenced area, and that always happens when it's too late. In the case of an art. 13. I was already saying that it is necessary to prescribe that communication intermediaries should be employed for children with developmental difficulties and that this should be provided by the state, the state cannot wash its hands and leave all JLS because what is already stated in the draft law is this imbalance, a different coverage, dramatically different in different parts of Croatia children who go to kindergartens from 30% to 75% shows that the state has not implemented enough care to establish equal conditions for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the sense that they can access kindergartens. There is also a price problem that varies depending on JLS, and the state that makes legal changes here cannot just wash its hands of responsibility when we talk about kindergartens. Who is the third parent, who is this person who is introduced suddenly in the legal proposal, and nowhere else is it detailed or normised but only needs to be served sounds like we have some solution although in practice we cannot adequately pay or introduce this person into the system because it has not previously been recognized as a function in any other document belonging to this legal solution and to which it applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105270	Thank you very much. You've got a couple of replicas, first in line is a distinguished colleague of Troscott's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105271	You have well noticed that this law is only a formality and that nothing will change absolutely on the ground for the reasons that, first of all, in the City of Zagreb, but also in other parts of Croatia, they are systematically breaking standards and they are being systematically broken, so I can say the constitutional rights of our children for the reason that the law prescribes that there should be 5 m2 per child, but what the examples of kindergartens in Zagreb show is, for example, that the left-wing street in Gornja Dubrava are children of only 1 to 1.5 m2 in Gornja Dubrava, so you have a kindergarten where children are all about a meter and a half square. I'm very interested in whether it's your opinion about it, and the second question is about changing the board of directors of kindergartens, so this doesn't change so we have where the founder still has three candidates for... The raiser is fourth and fifth, so do you think that should change the same? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105272	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105273	Everyone knows there's no respect for the state pedagogical standard and that's how it's been for years and everybody closes their eyes to that problem until it escalates in terms of an accident. Even worse, we don't have at all, and there's always talk of criteria, criteria for enrollment in kindergarten. If we're really going to have emails now, then I expect someone to set clear criteria, but not the way they exist now, where they're said, in principle, those who have more children, single mothers, etc. to get extra points than how that ranking list will be established, so whether kindergartens are the only places where you don't know why your child didn't break in, writes a list of who passed, who didn't pass, so you're looking for an explanation. Where is the score list, how much is the criteria, in which they are mutually conflicted, that's what needs to be clear and transparent so that it's not what practice is now and what we're all going to confirm again, which is that children and kindergarten are being enrolled through a relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105274	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105275	Dear colleagues, you mentioned Article 13 of this Bill, which lists the possibility of a third educator for children with developmental difficulties or professional communications mediator, his qualifications, as well as how he financed from the budget of units of local and regional regional self-government. Since schools have already had experience introducing teaching assistants and developed conditions that they can meet and must, can you agree with me to introduce a similar model for kindergarten assistants? It is my opinion that this funding will burden the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government, so it would be good for funding to apply the model as well as for schools via EU funds. As preschool programmes are prescribed as mandatory assistants should also be provided for children with developmental difficulties in older groups in kindergartens where children are in the year before school leave and who have preschools integrated into the regular programme, as well as children who are students of the programme for 250 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105276	Time. Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105277	I agree with you colleagues, Ban Vlahek, that this problem must be resolved and must be resolved at a systematic level. It is truly hypocritical in the law to prescribe the possibility, and therefore with an explanation that the state would not take responsibility without burdening the units of local self-government, because we will bring children who, by all conventions and by our Constitution, have guaranteed equal rights in an unequal position. And then you will have, in Zagreb, a truly communication expert in a well-equipped kindergarten, and perhaps in a smaller place in Dalmatia, there is no way that this child will get adequate care. Well, someone's got to take care of it. And these are children's rights that precede the laws that come from the Constitution and all these conventions and have to respect them. And then we're breaking them directly with this. So there's no can do. It's got to be. Some things must indeed be done and all children must be in the same position in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105278	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105279	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Marija Selak Rasudić, what is this system that allowed kindergarten teachers to have different salaries? What is this system that allowed a child in person to be less valuable than a child in Umag? Because a kid in Umag doesn't pay for his kindergarten. The vice president of the Parliament also spoke with fellow voters about it. So, in my Istria, in our Istria child from Umag does not pay for kindergarten, and in Rijeka pays a thousand 200 kunas, i.e. from 720 to a thousand 170 kunas. Since 720, yes, yes, so it's a regular price. How is it possible, then, in my Word last year, 400 children couldn't get the right to enroll in kindergarten? What is this system at the state level, at the local self-government that made it possible for us to live in such Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105280	The paradox in which we live, fellow Miletic, that on the one hand we have an amazing comparative advantage over the rest of Europe, which is a highly educated bar that takes care of our children, and we did not use it to promote ourselves through it, but in Croatia, workshops are held to make it look good in preschool education and education. And on the other hand, it works in such conditions that I eventually flee from these institutions and from calls, not only of interest, but of the call he was educated for, and that's our biggest problem. So there are no criteria by which half of our breeders are listed below on this and the square meters, and the number of children to be dealt with and the number of children enrolled must pray to parents for basic material that will animate children. Could you do it this month, it's called co-operation with your parents, could you buy this month, get a little bit of a paper package and something like that, is that normal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105281	Time. Thank you. Next or last replica on your presentation of colleagues Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105282	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, you touched on a subject that is extremely important, so here is a colleague, Miletic, who talked about it, and I'm going to get up there. So this is some kind of discrimination among children who are already moving from preschool institutions and who do not necessarily even have to be related to the degree of development of a region, municipality, or city, but rather depends on local leaders. I'm going to give you an example that clearly confirms that. In the city of Belisso, for example. in Osijek-Baranja County, kindergarten is free of charge for all children, and recently we have had opportunities to read in the media how in the municipality of Konavle which is very attractive touristic and probably has high incomes are cut wages by aunts in kindergarten, growers and the price of kindergarten rises. So it doesn't even have to do with the degree of development of an end, but actually what they think and do with local powers, sheriffs or call them whatever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105283	Time. It's my fault. I didn't interrupt in time. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105284	If the state has prescribed not the right and not the possibility, but the obligation that at least in one part of this last preschool education, children must attend kindergartens so that the same state can say that it is not her problem under what conditions and criteria will children go to these institutions and will be treated differently? If the obligation is then not only for local self-government units, but also for the entire Republic of Croatia and the criteria must be equal for the records, and for the acquisition of materials, for all material conditions including the number of children per breeder, etc. So it's absolutely amazing that we have something that's prescribed as a commitment as this coverage is going to be more mandatory, and that the state can say that it's not her problem how it's arranged, so then one unit is generous, the other is stingy, and who knows how the third and the other function.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105285	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next individual debate is that of distinguished MPs Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105286	I would like to thank the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Although in pre-election time we heard about demographic politics as a key segment, after the election all plans and programmes disappeared from the public discourse. Only on the publication of the NPO's competition were we waiting almost a year for education. Croatia is at the very bottom of the number of preschool child coverage compared to other EU countries, which has now imposed on us the obligation to include 95% of preschool children by the end of the year. According to the latest statistics, the share of three-year-olds covered by preschool education in the EU has 56% while France comes first with 99.50%. According to the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, there are currently 76 municipalities and cities that have no organised kindergarten accommodation at all. Due to insufficient pre-booked kindergartens every year, there are 5,000 pre-school children waiting for the waiting list. The problem that exists in preschool education is not since yesterday. It's a problem that's been rolling for the past 20 years, but the question is, what has the HDZ government been doing so far? What was waiting until now to be made public when the water had already spilled a glass. We're full of demographics. Their pre-election programme was based on demographic revitalization, and we today have neither a strategic document nor a vision. That's why we have a big wave of eviction. It is difficult for people to stay in Croatia if they can't enroll in kindergarten, they can't get a job. They also find it difficult to decide on family enlargement and therefore we belong to the oldest European nation. Demographic and innovative policy is a national issue and what the state should do to reduce this negative trend is to improve the service for preschool children, reduce the cost of schooling for children, give more justice to children, increase maternity and parental benefits, reduce unemployment. Such a final bill does not alter working conditions, does not stop discrimination against children of educators, parents, does not provide equality for children with developmental difficulties. Gifted children aren't even mentioned. As far as funding is concerned, there's chaos and there's a lack of expert staff that's unprofessional and cheap. Since from the first to the last article there is no objective that this law should represent, which is equally accessible, quality and secure kindergarten for all children under the same conditions, which proves a series of amendments submitted by all of us opposition clubs should be rewritten and therefore we will submit a third reading conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105287	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. First replica of colleague Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105288	Dear colleagues, you mentioned waiting. Here we have been waiting for a full nine years for the Regulation on the type of technical assistance set out in Article 27(3) of this Law. Therefore, the Regulation on the type of professional training of professional staff and the type and degree of professional training of other children's kindergarten workers within one year of the entry into force of this law. That's how it's prescribed by law. Amendments to the Preschool and Education Act of 2013 were also prescribed for the adoption of that Regulation within 6 months of the date of entry into force of that law, but it has not yet been adopted by today. Do you think this will happen in this same final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105289	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105290	Thank you. As far as the law is concerned, there is a DPS that is not respected. I have already delivered in my free speech as well as on behalf of the club how many children should actually be prescribed in groups, how many breeders on a particular group of children. There's nothing to respect. So it needs to be crystallized first, so we need to regain consciousness first. And as far as this final bill is concerned, it's bad from beginning to end. And I believe that when they see it, when the government sees all the possible amendments that we're going to submit, that they're going to come to their senses, that they're going to go to third reading, otherwise in a year we're going to have to go back to the new change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105291	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Pavliček, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105292	Dear colleagues, do you think that it is not discriminatory for educators to have enough class teachers, or teachers can work in kindergartens with retraining until a measure of reciprocity has been introduced on the other hand, i.e. that breeders are not able in those environments where there are not enough class teachers with retraining to work in primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105293	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105294	All decisions are taken at the level of local self-government, which means that the number of employees as well as their salaries depends solely on the head of the local self-government unit. In my opinion, they should enter the state budget and be financed from the state budget. As far as this lack of educators is concerned, I don't mean the educators, but I mean the government that led to this situation, the lack of professional personnel. And the proposal that we're going to go with which I hope the profession of government and support it will be yes, but provided that the right of the championship still has educators. So if the competition is reported to the teachers that they have the right to the championship, not teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105295	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105296	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleague. Here I have reacted with this replica to your sentence, which the HDZ government has done so far, probably in the debate you have alluded to the construction of kindergartens so far. According to 2010, we had a deadline for the Barcelona and Lisbon strategy to have at least 60% of preschools up to three years, so these young in kindergartens, i.e. institutions, and 90% to six years. We were then far below that average. What did you do to me? In 2017 we invest 80 million in kindergartens, 2018. 861 million. Measure 741 300 new kindergartens are contracted and built, 19, 551, 20, 151, 20, first 112, and now this big project What did you and your government do? [[Intruder Voter: And there is no more time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105297	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105298	You made this public call that it would only be realized in 2026 to 2027. Let's be aware that the 1.9th new generation of kindergartens and mangers is on the move. Where are they going by then? So on the annual level below the line is 5 thousand children, and in Osijek, I'll tell you now in Osijek is officially 200 children, and off the record is 800. And then what are we gonna do until 2026-27? As we have done in Osijek, let us be like we have been taking home dwellings, taking Kingdom Halls, and redesigning them for living rooms. It's not a solution, it's not a solution. This isn't your first term. This is your second, third term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105299	Don't make me have to warn you about throwing you off the bench. And the last replica of my colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105300	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke of the percentages that we on the one hand have set out how many children should actually be covered by preschool education and education and how far away we are from the most developed countries of the European Union. For the general population, the data differed from 60%, so 80% of the total population, I found one data for 3 to 6 years that 82.8% of the total population. But what's the problem is here in Međimurje that a very small percentage of the Roma national minority is involved in preschool education and education only 31%. It wasn't exactly this promising response from the secretary of state when I asked him where the problem was, how much of the state must be participated there, and how many units of local self-government because units of local and regional self-government depending on the region to participate in free transport, free food, etc. What is your opinion, in fact, what should the state be engaged in because I think they are the first on the move and not units of local regional self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105301	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105302	I have already stated on behalf of the club which are our short-term, short-term measures of the Social Democrats Club, which is that, apart from opening up a number of kindergartens and ensuring the smooth work of pre-school institutions during summer holidays and now not counting any further as far as it is concerned, only a little now cannot find exactly, largely some single price should be introduced depending on the number of children and, in fact, the units of local self-government should be included in this and under the obligation to finance that every child has the right to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105303	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. You can go to your seat. It's better to have them than not to have them. The next individual debate is the representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105304	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The worst thing that can happen to a document is that it's being challenged by the waist. This is exactly what is happening with this final bill of preschool education. In fact, a large part of the profession believes that simply this Final Bill proposal is not a good solution, that it is two steps back. So between the Department of Preschool Pedagogogoggogues of the City of Zagreb and associated members, which includes 10 other Croatian counties, the Department of Development Psychology of the Early and Preschool Age of the Croatian Psychological Society, the Department of Preschool Logopedes of the Croatian Logopedic Society, the Department of Educational Rehabilitators of Preschool Education, the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters, the Croatian Psychological Chamber plus dozens of doctors of science in the field of pedagogy, psychology and working with preschool children, all of them believe that this Final Bill proposal has a series of shortcomings. And then you need to ask yourself, "Is it still necessary to respect the profession's opinion at times or to go through the wall with your head?" Namely, only some of these shortcomings are the following where the breeders have just sent me a few remarks. So, highly qualified persons, as the secretary himself said, we may also have the most qualified breeders in the European Union who feel the following – that as far as financing children's kindergartens themselves are concerned, only that the primary primary units of local self-government are founders, that we need to find a mode for this economic price to be even and not for one child in one municipality to pay 500 kuna, in another and parents 900, in one town a thousand and 300, and in some cities for free of charge. If we are all equal under the Constitution, then we should be equal in this, and no matter what city or municipality someone lives in, which means that of those municipalities and cities that are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia where the weaker demographic image of the state should co-finance that difference in price if the municipalities can't do so, or simply transfer everything to the county and that they all have equal conditions when enrolling in kindergarten in terms of economic price. In addition, one of the shortcomings is that justice with lack of educators, which is that class teachers or primary teachers can work with preschool children with requalification, and nor is the introduced reciprocity enabled by breeders. We've been missing and a doctor for years, so there's no suggestion that dentists or veterinarians can requalified and work in hospitals of general practice or be specialists. But let’s think about why there is a branch of the breeder from the profession. Unfortunately, the information we have shows a worrying fact that many breeders are working on replacements with short work contracts, and some even 10 or more years later on contracts to a specific which is not in line with the Labour Act. It is precisely that uncertainty that has prompted many breeders to other jobs, as well as to leave the country. But that's not the end of it. And trainees can collect their traineeships with short replacements month by month to collect the necessary 12 months and obtain the right to pass a professional exam. We're wondering if the state has made a commitment to a traineeship then it has to find a way to secure it. With this kind of approach, we will find it difficult to attract, let alone retain a professional fit in preschool institutions. One of the shortcomings of this law is also the possibility of over-authority of a minister who will establish by regulation the number of children in educational institutions, therefore indeed this bill of law must and should go into third reading or at least respect amendments that will arrive to keep that pre-school education at a certain level and not go two steps lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105305	Thank you. We're going with the replicas to your exhibit. She's the first one to be a respected colleague of Bull's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105306	Thank you very much. A colleague, Pavlikek, of course, is one important topic and perhaps you should consider a third reading and it is good that the secretary of state is here. But perhaps the importance of this topic was to be a minister, and no, it doesn't appear. This is a key demographic measure and means to ensure that every child has the right to have a kindergarten. Wherever we don't have that possibility, it will move out, and that's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. I know when I became mayor of 180 children is unlisted. My first idea was, oh, my God. Like all of us when we get here. [[You don't understand.]] And I was looking for some kind of solution. That's getting smaller. Now here's to... kindergarten, it'll be over soon and we'll sort out a part of the kids here. [[You don't understand.]] One in the other... Heads. [[You don't understand.]] However, the key question is raised. Why is the state washing... The hands of our children and transfer everything to local self-government, and at the same time you're advocating going to the county? [[You don't understand.]] You know what the biggest problem is? ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105307	Time. Thank you very much. In minus nine, you're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105308	Here's a thank you. A proposal for why in the county. For one reason only, there are 20 of them, unlike 555 units of local self-government, and there is too much difference in development. What I just said and what you said was saddened that the state washes its hands as far as demographic policy is concerned. Demographic policy should not lead you to Sinj, nor I to Vukovar, nor any of the other colleagues from any city or municipality. Then this demographic policy is unequal and then it goes to the children's stomach right now. It should be equal throughout the country, and must be taken care of by the restoring ministry. Unfortunately, we don't even have a draft demographic anymore in the current ministries. This only shows how much individuals care about demographics, and it is indeed the cancer of Croatian society's wounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105309	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105310	Thank you very much. On several occasions, you are also criticising this possibility that teachers can work in preschool institutions with a certain requalification. So my question is whether it's better if he's unemployed, and he wants to work with the kids, he even wants to requalify himself, and at the same time, it's better if we don't have enough people in kindergartens, or this is still a good solution to what we have, for example. engineers of electrical engineering and engineering with teaching subjects submitted at school or, for example, waiters also at vocational schools. So we have that kind of practice. We have made it possible, we are in favour of changing calls for the kind of occupation that the labour market requires. Even somewhere in the world, it's so much pointed out that it's wonderful that people can requalify themselves and change their jobs every five years and stuff. And we have a possibility that you can't criticize just to be criticized.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105311	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105312	Thank you. Here's what I've never criticized just to criticize. This is the view of the profession that such a move degrades the profession of breeders which is one of the most qualified in the European Union. On the other hand, introduce reciprocity, allow them to teach and requalify themselves for class classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105313	Okay. The next replica of my colleague Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105314	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pavlichek, here's what we've seen is something that bothers me. This strong text says and says that it is necessary or obviously very difficult to define a unique methodology for calculating the economic price of kindergartens. Please tell me why it's so hard. We know that there are certain specificities, but why is it such a difficult and insolvent problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105315	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105316	Well, I think if he's willing, the price of kindergarten can be determined. First of all, we all know how food supply works in kindergartens. It goes to public procurement that food supplies should be used. We know on average how much one of the parents pays a particular unit of local self-government and it can be determined exactly what is the economic price of kindergarten. But what is very important is that it must not make too much difference between children. For example, in Vukovar you will pay 500 kuna per child, while in Beliss you will pay 0 kuna. While in another town you will pay a thousand and 200 kuna and wait years to see if your child gets a chance to enroll in kindergarten. It is important that the state intervenes because everyone has to have equal rights here and we are going back to that demography that must be dealt with by the state government, and not to leave it to the mayors, the mayors, because it is simply inexecutible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105317	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed colleague, Vucimilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105318	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavliček has been told a lot about how many kindergartens have been built lately, and that is a fact. We have built a lot of kindergartens through EU funds. But where did we build them? We built them in municipalities or what they would say to me like this in Slavonia in villages. So in the Vladimirites there is room in kindergarten, and in Valpo, there is no room and not all children are enrolled. There is room in Jelisavec in kindergarten, and 30 children could not be enrolled in kindergarten in Nasice this year. And the fact is that we, now we've finally come to realize that we're 10% less, here's the population list, and what we're saying all the time is that Slavonian villages are empty, that people are gone, that we're finally lighting up, and now we have nice empty kindergartens and where there are no children and breeders, and where there are children and fosterers, there are no kindergartens and there's no buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105319	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105320	... No one will argue that it has invested in the infrastructure, but it is inconceivable that despite the decline of the number of residents, we still have a lack of space in kindergartens in certain parts of Croatia, on the other hand, many kindergartens are staring at us literally empty, no better situation is even with primary schools. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is unfortunately just a lack of strategy amongst the resolutions because we simply don't have a strategy in most cases but all for ad hoc and then we come into this situation so that you can't enroll children in the City of Zagreb and that today these from We can! I can be happy because with 5,000 children where I would put them, and on the other hand you have hundreds of objects in Slavonia that are literally staring blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105321	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation by my colleague Milanović litre, please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105322	Thank you, Your Honor, the Chairman. Dear colleague Pavliček, here you are talking about the differences between the municipality and the municipality, the city to the city. When it comes to education in both preschool and school in Croatia, there is another segregation or auto segregation I would say at national level. You as a professor and as a person coming from Vukovar certainly can testify to that. Today we are witnessing the auto segregation of the Serbian national minority in Vukovar and cities that say more than 30% under national minorities, I am interested in how long and how long Croatian culture and Croatian society can suffer such auto segregation in which children are separated from the earliest age, there is a difference between who is Croat and who is Serbian. When two children or a number of children stand at a bus stop, the bus comes after eight of them, two of them remain there because these two must go to Serbian school, when will that end?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105323	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105324	Now the left-wings would tell you, don't touch any minority rights. In accordance with the national pedagogical standard of both primary and secondary schools and preschool education, members of national minorities have the right to education in their language and letter A, B or C model. However, it is highly doubtful how good such models are, in particular, model A, which is used most in Eastern Slavonia for the future of one environment. Here in Vukovar you have two separate kindergartens, in the same building garden Vukovar 1, kindergarten Vukovar 2. I have two children in kindergarten age, then you get into that building nice and we go to one side, we Croats, members of the Serb community go to the other side, we go through the same door in the same hall, but the children are separated, and then you have a huge playground where there is some invisible line, on the one hand there are Croats, and on the other side Serbs from the first year on, but as many people want to say these are the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105325	Thank you. Well, we could have had a multicultural school in Vukovar, but some didn't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105326	It's been a while... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105327	Okay, well, there would be no segregation and separation. Next debate, distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105328	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President HS, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatia has over 500 JLS and the vast majority is not financially sustainable, depending on the state budget. But every time in some municipality or town of squeamishes, the first ones are kind of hit by kindergarten breeders, their wages are reduced and cut, and here we have the final example in the Konavlas a few days ago where they just found a way to save something so that the breeders will cut their wages. Why they're the first to strike is hard to say, but honestly we don't have to wonder why they're not enough. So this bill proposes to employ class teachers at the place of kindergarten educators. What are they going to do, for example? in a manger with children a year old where they still need some other knowledge and some other skills. They shouldn't be done or read, or written, it's hard to say, but the ministry has come up with that knowledge and skills that they'll get through retraining and that's as fast as possible. So after 12 months of study, the breeder must be an intern in his appointment, then after which he must pass a professional exam, after which years usually work on shorter or longer replacements, and in principle we will all support this system because yet they are in charge of our children and I think it's very good, but now through this legal proposal for teachers is predicting employment, a shorter requalification program that lasts 2.g. and there is no traineeship obligation, no expert exam, and then the teacher gained the competences of the breeder and he can work, continue to work as a raiser, so he asks one legitimate question, why would anyone study more for a raiser, he'll become a raiser if he ends up a class teacher, he's a little overqualified, and that's that, no expert exam, no traineeship, and in the end he has literally two titles, there's a man of two colleges, and then he's studying 5.g. for the breeder, finish for class school, immediately hire as a breeder, after 2.g. It's overqualified and a man's got two professions, he's got two colleges. Let's not underestimate our graduates, they're very, very practical and feet on the ground and when they see that something they can do faster they'll go on it. That's definitely how it is. There was also already talk of a state pedagogical standard which is unfortunately not respected today, and the fundamental question is what will happen when it is no longer prescribed by law but by sublaw. Covering children attending kindergartens should be up to about 95%, it is now at about 55% and it is probably one of the reasons why very strange and inappropriate ideas like this in Zagreb will occur where local committees will be re-designed in kindergartens. It just means that there will be even more inadequate spaces after that. We heard on the show yesterday that they were built even from asbestos plates. So the inadequate spaces where our children will stay, and even less respect for the prescribed standards. I'm going to give you just one example that's really on, very extreme. So in Krapina-Zagorje County we have an example that in the mangers there are 36 children, they have a total of 42 m2 available and there is only one breeder with them. It's a manger. It's children who wear diapers. As this breeder gets all this together, it's hard to say, and the state pedagogical standard says they should be between 8 and 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105329	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the first replica of my colleague Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105330	Here's my colleague Puljak just before she called, which you keep mentioning to Yugoslavia here I think I've mentioned in passing once since I've been here in the Croatian Parliament, but someone and some still regret... after that country, but about that then, let's go back to the metrics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Vucilović is interested in whether this bill degrades the breeder's waist? Would you recommend that your child enlist for a raiser in view of such legal proposals?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105331	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105332	Thank you, dear colleague Pavlikek, I honestly think that being a raiser is an invitation, not a profession, but a call and I appreciate the hard work of everyone, not only in preschool education means in kindergartens but also in schools, these are demanding jobs that in no case belittled. What I'm pointing out is a purely practical view of what might happen. To be honest, obviously we have an extra class teacher, all of us who have kids who attend primary school know that class classes are 17, 18, 19 when they transfer 20 that's already a big class, in my time here in that former Yugoslavia were 33 of us in the class. Demography is what it is, until we face this problem, we'll find solutions like this, and I don't think they're the happiest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105333	Thank you, next replica of my colleague Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105334	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, Vucimilovic, two short questions. First, let me ask you whether we are drastically or almost irreparably wrong in all these years by bringing the specifics of the Croatian Qualifications Framework because we see that we are drastically lacking such highly educated staffs, I have already said in a speech for children at the earliest formative age. And secondly, could it be a brilliant solution to a problem like this? the direction we're going, and that's the depopulation and the emigration of the Croats, so we won't have any more problems with the overnumbered children? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105335	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105336	Well, thank you, dear fellow Dretar. I can hardly give you two brief answers to these two short questions, and I don't think a minute will be enough for me. In fact, in the replica of my colleague, I pointed to a problem that we otherwise have not only in preschool education but also in health care. You'll find it hard to find a doctor who's going to work somewhere in a health care facility, I often mention this Lower Moticina, but there's a home of health, we have a hospital where we haven't had for years, we don't have a doctor. So we invest a lot in buildings, we invest a lot and we build a lot of kindergartens, it's not a dispute just having kindergartens where there are no children anymore, and you'll find it hard to find now a breeder who will go to work from Zagreb to Vladimirovci and here's this Jelisavac I mentioned. It's just, people like living in bigger places, especially when they're younger. I personally don't understand them, I like to live more in a smaller place, but this It's like that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105337	The next replica of fellow Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105338	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vucemilović, that I will begin with this last sentence of yours, will be difficult to find. Look who wants and wants to work, who cares he'll go to his place of work. Well, I'm an example that went to the island, but I may not have known how to swim, so I made my bread. So whoever wants can work. What I want to highlight here is Article 11 of this bill, which says primary education teachers can get the right to work in kindergarten through requalification of 2 years. And we actually have an early and preschool education system for educators who have 2 years of education. So primary education teachers, educators, they have 60% of the joint colleges that learn in college, and we now have that. We're making drama. [[Intruder: Time.]] This is the least of your problems. who exists in kindergartens from what I am [[Intruder: Please.]] search. [[I'll have to give you a warning if you don't stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105339	Okay. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105340	Thank you, dear fellow Shimičević, but I agree with you that these are similar studies, is the difference in those 40% which are not negligible. What I wanted to point out in my individual debate is that those who end up as breeders have a simple system and laws much more rigorous way while means at all through, they have to pass traineeships, expert exams, while these don't have to. It is something that perhaps needs to be seen and evened because in some ways it seems to me that we are discriminating those who have chosen the call of the raiser already after graduation. I agree with you that it's similar, it's not the same, it's not, but what happens after college is really different and that maybe you should take care of it, and here I am just like you went into that smaller middle, so I agree with you who wants to do it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105341	Thank you. And another replica of my colleague Milanović litre, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105342	Thank you, Your Honor, the Chairman. Dear colleague Vucimilović, we had a thematic session at the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on Demography, you called her as president, it was very informative I believe most of this representative, and you mentioned here the re-design of local committees in kindergartens, of course, which we all know can't be a good decision that the City of Zagreb can't be made at the level of the state, and by the state of politics around demographics there is no evidence of that, and this law which is actually a ceasefire. How do you see this will actually improve the demographic picture in the context of Croatians in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105343	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105344	Thank you fellow Milanović litre, sincerely to me now, so the entire demographic policy is at JLS level and if you look at a little bit you have on the central office's website a list of all the measures that all municipalities and cities in the Republic spend and there are huge reasons, huge, of course, from not knowing where 50,000 kuna is paid for a third child, somewhere, somewhere like this, somewhere. The only right demographic measure would be that kindergartens are free for all in Croatia, the only real demographic measure, everything else is some sort of temporary solution that very often becomes permanent solutions and that is the biggest danger that we are temporarily going to go to some fire-fighting measures to put out some fire that has come to us and then finally forget about it and it becomes a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105345	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105346	My colleague Vucimilović, I think everyone is famous, there are known scales, the extent I would say tragic sub-capacitation, the current sub-capacitation of the City of Zagreb in kindergarten capacities. It is the fruit of at least a 10-year-old if not longer unfair, unfair, unfair, harmful and regressive policy. This policy is morally and financially bankrupt. This policy has been replaced by a new city administration that needs to enable its children of the City of Zagreb to attend pre-school education and education. What we can do at this point while a whole couple of new kindergartens are building is redesign city spaces and ensure as many normal conditions for preschool education. I don't know what you needed, but this statement about asbestos boards I'll take it only, I can only take it as an indiscriminateness because otherwise calling, calling asbestos records on, a statement that is irresponsible and malicious on television shows is just as malicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105347	Time, thank you. My colleague, Bacic, I'm going to have to give you a heads-up. Please, let's go like this, I warn you, everyone knows to get a little carried away, so it goes away in time, but you're getting a little too carried away, and I'm gonna have to share warnings if it happens again to you next time. Here's a reply from my colleague Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105348	Thank you very much. My colleague Bakic, it was reported yesterday in one, I just repeated what everyone heard, on national television, means it's montage facilities. Now, if that's not true, you need that person who said this to warn him not to spread false information, here I really am, and I said where that source came from, it's not that I sucked it out of my little finger anyway I don't live in Zagreb, this and honestly I think that the high administrative court has done you a huge favor because you don't have, so this year in the City of Zagreb a large number of children couldn't fit because there's not enough room in kindergartens, that the parent measure for those who have acquired those rights you would have a huge problem, so 5,000 children, you already have a problem with having 5,000 more children to come to you where you would put them, really no one knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105349	Time, thank you. You don't have any more replicas. We are going to the next individual debate, dear colleague Udovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105350	Thank you. Here's another 2018. So 4 years ago. then Minister of the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth, can you make up for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105351	Please allow colleagues and colleagues to have their individual discussion in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105352	Demography, family, youth and social policy counterpart Nada Murganić published a really nice and comprehensive publication entitled “Analysis of accessibility of quality, capacity and financing of early and pre-school education systems in the Republic of Croatia” and was funded by UNICEF and therefore very much thanked because it is actually visible where we were until 2018, based on the available data we know where we are today, but I will also say with certainty that we will not actually be able to until 2030. to what we should come up with and to what we are bound by the adopted strategy so far. Namely, here it is after 4 years. We can conclude that this legislative proposal and the late tender for the construction of kindergartens by NPOO in almost half a year will not achieve the ultimate objectives of the government until '26. and in the '30s, respectively. They are the right of every child to early and preschool education and education because the current coverage of preschool programmes is extremely low and significantly below the Barcelona goals, which is 90% of the age of 3 years to school, i.e. the Europe 2020 Strategy, where an additional goal is added, which is 95% between 4 years of age and starting at the primary school. The growing regional inequalities with regard to child coverage and spatial availability will not be resolved. The current system will continue to remain unsustainable to a large number of parents and the system will remain unacceptable to the children of unemployed parents and children of the lower socio-economic status family. Why can I say that? Because this law does not resolve a clear and uniform methodology for the calculation of subsidies, it will continue to depend solely on the fiscal strength of the local budget and also on the policies of the head of pre-school education. We have chosen a policy to invest even 1/3 of the budget in preschool education, some other leader does not. No central government investment is prescribed. Its financing of kindergarten work is already left with the possibility of regulating the same government regulation and will be decided every financial year. In fact, we cannot talk about long-term sustainability at all because it can happen that the budget does not provide for funding for pre-school education at all. And why is that? Because they're not legally prescribed. And here's a completely wrong proposer in the bill proposes that the funds to complete the construction of kindergartens per NPO are allocated according to the value of the development index. It is only those who are below average ranked although the demographic indicator is actually only part of the index and those who are developed actually have a larger number of working-active populations, have more children in terms of pre-school education, but also the need for new capacities as well as greater allocations for economic price subsidies, so it is only logical that all those who meet the criteria for financing construction, the construction of kindergartens by the NPO are also followed by the state. In the last 8 years, the government has failed to scholarship, increase quotas and actively participate in the education of missing professional staff, educators, working therapists, logos, psychologists. So by 2030 we're going to need 9,000 educators, and also to fill these 22,500 intended places we actually need until '26. 2,000 educators are available on the labour market. You will find it difficult, difficult to realize this even with this measure that class teachers can temporarily jump in for 2 years. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105353	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas, the first replica of colleague Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105354	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Udovic, it has been almost a year since the NPO was presented and only now have we published a public call for kindergartens. I'm interested in what you think is going to happen to that realisation of the NPO itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105355	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105356	Here's a thank you, colleague. It's exactly a late half-year contest. The tender is open from 3 May to 4 July, the allocations will be made as indicated by the competition maximum within 120 days of the closing of the call. It's only sometime in the month of November this year that we'll actually know who passed. The fact is that we now have over 520 municipalities and cities that have less than 90% of children, then you know how potential the application is, since local self-government units can only apply with, with land or location to build kindergartens. And only in the budgets will the '23 units of local self-government plan the funds, while the procurement procedures are carried out, etc., the realisation itself is very questionable until mid-'26. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105357	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Opaljak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105358	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Udovic, here at this very moment in front of the front door and the parliament and the government, we have a protest of educators who are unhappy with the proposed amendments to this law, and this is clear because between the 2 readings, the promoter did not listen to their voice either. the voice of the raiser, nor the voice of the parents. We have been hearing about demographic policy as a key segment and the program of this government that has been working for 6 years, and you have mentioned a published publication from which we can see where we were in 2018 and we can see what is actually a shift in the percentage of children attending kindergarten. He is still at a low level, i.e. Almost the lowest in the EU and I'm asking you how you comment on it and how you're actually not much of a listener from the ruling protesters who are right now on Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105359	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105360	Here's to the question, actually, the promoter didn't appreciate the profession at all. The profession is the one that pointed to a series of illogicalities, and I would say that this law is actually a law that deals only with cosmetic changes. We didn't get into the essence. This law will not lead us to get close to the objectives that by 2030 we have more than 90% of enrolled children from the third year to school and it is really unacceptable to ignore both the profession and the MPs, here we have seen how many amendments have already arrived and indeed the Social Democrats Club will seek a third reading of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105361	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, distinguished colleague Mariana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105362	Dear colleagues, I'm interested in how you view this part that the award criteria for local units will be determined by a regulation, by a government regulation, so it will also determine the criteria for and how to assign to which unit, if there is a danger of whether, as I have said in my presentation, it is taught by the previous experience that this famous one vertical will function in a way that the funds will then be given priority to members of the ruling party, and whether the children, those children whose leaders are the mayors from some other parties will be kind of cut off, do we know how it worked so far, is there a risk that this will continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105363	Thank you. Here you go. How about some peace?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105364	I appreciate the question. Well, the first is a danger because this law does not prescribe it as a commitment, so the regulation says that criteria will be established and the budget will provide for funding every year. The first question is whether the funds will be provided at all and it is a very variable category, and we are not familiar with the criteria and criteria now, so there is always the danger of actually adopting some criteria and criteria that will not cover all those that need to be covered, and we must remember, here we must remember that in Poland the situation with the construction of kindergartens is actually happening. They also invested as much money as the Republic of Croatia plans, they simply had to close some facilities because they did not provide what you and what I was talking about, which is sustainability means preschool education program.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105365	Thank you. You're welcome. The next individual debate is that of counterpart Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105366	Vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, in a way, because I was inspired by my previous colleague from the previous debate to remind myself of this publication, the book we gave this one to print. Our goal was really to record on one scientific basis the state of accessibility of our children in institutions and institutions of preschool education and education simply to draw the line where we are so far. And why do I want to stress that now? Because there is a very common question of what this government was doing and what this government was thinking, so I would just like to say that if we had already had an obligation to 2010. We have 60% of the Jaslic age, children of the Jaslic age in kindergartens and 90% of kindergartens, so these older than 3 to 6 years, and then we were below 30 and 60, so I would now ask critics what governments were doing until then, and then some of our facilities would be built and secure in function. So after that, it started to invest, first of all in the construction of kindergartens and since 2017, so far we have invested 2 billion kunas in built 498 kindergartens, and different adaptations, investments, constructions, reconstructions, in fact, increases in the material position of the existing kindergartens 739. Of course, we will always say that it is not enough that we would not think that I am satisfied with it, and that it is important for their overall development to have a good preschool education and education, as well as for parents it is very good that children are not only protected but that they are educated and educated in preschool institutions, but on the other hand that parents are allowed to work uninterruptedly in their workplaces, i.e. to reconcile family and professional life, especially mothers, since we know that women are very often who stay at home and because we know that more equal access to the labour market is very important for all of us. What is also important is that the government is, in addition to this significant investment in garden adaptation and construction, I repeat, one of the biggest investments was 2018. When 300 million kunas invested and contracted 52 completely new buildings and then continued, of course, that large 1.22 billion financial envelopes were expected very much. We all have the same fears and fears about whether our units or applicants will be able, whether they will be sustainable, of course they will also be taken into account through the funds from the state budget and the Ministry of Science and Education will all be clearly monitored because it is not our goal to build objects that will then be either semi-completed or not to say put into office. The Republic of Croatia advocates, of course, balanced regional development, this is not a simple process, but the past government and this government with financial injections is helping local and regional self-government finance units to finance children for kindergarten accommodation, of course until now it has been the criterion of the development index, but it is announced that the co-financing of 500 kuna per child is extended to every child. When we talk about everything being centralized, we should make sure that units of local and regional self-government have their rights and obligations, that in one of the major and first, the first reforms of the Minister of Tax Reform introduced by Minister Maric in 2017. are significant funds. The first was the reform that was released to units of local and regional two billion kunas and, of course, their assessment of how they will invest, whether they are in kindergartens or in something else, it is up to them to remind them of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105367	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas, the first replica of my colleague Brcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105368	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's for sure how it's emphasized here by a lot of conversationalists in the assembly, this is a large part of a demographic measure. We know that you are well guided through your work so far into demographics and this context 1.2 billion kuna that we mention, which soon expect competitions I would certainly say one historical way and a view of the evaluation of this demographic problem. As I come from the Split-Dalmatia County, which numbers 55 municipalities and cities, and you yourself have mentioned some caution here not to say skepticism whether all local units, especially those that are not capacitated, will manage to make a quality application and withdraw funds, as you think of transport as regional development agencies so The structure and resolution of ministries as [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'd get to... [[/Intruder: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105369	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105370	Thank you very much. Of course it's something we all need to take care of together. I know there are a lot of local units that have already prepared documentation and, of course, they've also reported it to our national NPO, and it should certainly be taken into account. Well, we've been working on withdrawing funds from European funds for a long time. There are already some leaders, there are consultants available and certainly they have almost all the counties and regional agencies that deal with all this. It is also the responsibility of this government that has opened the tender, but I do not like to focus only on one person. We all have responsibilities on the ground that should be ready for our citizens as well. to make every effort in this case. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105371	Thank you. The next replica of fellow Habiban, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105372	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues, you are also beautiful in the replica of my colleague Nikolic if I am not mistaken, and now in his presentation, you have said what the government has done on this particular subject. So from all investments to this announcement that now follows 22,500 new actually places for, in preschool institutions. However, I am more interested in your position, and these double standards and criteria actually come from the opposition which therefore has one position here, and for example in the City of Zagreb, a measure has been abolished, so the "parent parent" of 2,500 children in June is likely to enter, where they will be placed, so whether they will respect the state pedagogical standards. So, one policy that is represented here as an opposition in the Croatian Parliament, but 50 meters away, this opposition has a completely different attitude and completely different standards, so I'm also interested in your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105373	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105374	Thank you very much. Me and all of us, I believe we have an honest opinion and a desire to have all our children attend preschools. And I think it should be made possible for every child in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the City of Zagreb. I'm going to say something personal and I didn't keep it a secret, my only objection to this was to "parent parent" the fact that a child then excludes the possibility of enrolling in kindergarten and attending kindergarten. The child has been punished, and the measure is the City of Zagreb has defined itself for it, we have many and many social and demographic measures that different local units have adapted primarily to the interests of their citizens, political objectives on the one hand and of course to financial opportunities. But now we're all on the stand that kids have to go to kindergarten and need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105375	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105376	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president. Dear colleague Murganic, I will refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke about the need to co-finance the work of kindergartens from the state budget to units of local self-government. I'm glad you just put an emphasis on it. I'll remind you of the pilot project of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy just when you were a minister. You started a pilot project to co-finance the work of local self-government units with 500 kuna per child, first to fourth category of development index. The same project I continued and signed in my mandate in the first wave of 79, in the second wave of 84 contracts with 84 and 79 municipalities in our country, and after us, State Secretary Josic continued the same project. So far, it's well signed if I'm okay, if I'm not mistaken 81 contracts, and the urgency is that this spreads to all of Croatia. all over the country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105377	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105378	Thank you very much. Here, I think, is also one measure aimed at a child or a parent. The parent is able to provide financial support for the accommodation costs of kindergartens. We know that kindergarten prices are different, that they can't be even. I think as much as I'm not an economist, but in my life I've worked out probably from my personal experience is that the cost of living in Zagreb or in some place is not the same, and that's why I'm for the state to intervene and help those units of local and regional self-government and administrations who really don't have enough resources for those standards, and that's primarily the rights that are directed towards children, towards poor citizens, and not to be universal, and then those who can finance themselves are freeing up funds for some other maybe not so for citizens of significant projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105379	Thank you. The next replica of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105380	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Murganic has a small municipality called Tounj. In this Tounj, there are about 1,200 people but we have lots of preschool children, so in 2019, our county decided to turn extra space at school into, by standard, preschool education which, thus, was created by a Tounska sponge which now has 19 children and is also a small school program. This is one example of good practice where they are overall, they are provided with full conditions for children, for their education, socialization of children is ensured, and what we were saying was that mothers were placed on the labour market. That I think is a very good example of practice as it can be put under one administration, the school is the manager of these institutions. We don't have additional directors, we don't have additional administrative staff, and we've actually made it possible for our children to really take care of them the way we all want them to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105381	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105382	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you've already said in your replica everything that this project and program now enables right in our county. I listen to the way it's said here that there's no toilet paper in some kindergartens, so parents are wanted for this, for that. I really, I'm sorry there are such kindergartens, we don't have such experiences, and I think it's a synergy of concern and concern for local leaders. In Karlovac County, the possibility that in changing the law, education and education allowed the space of schools, primary schools that we know for ourselves that these are now large and unused rooms is part of the pre-school equipment. That's great. Children then go to school after finishing school, stay in their small schools because if they went to kindergarten in a big city, then they would probably go along with their classmates to school in those big, bigger places. And I think it's a measure that allows for survival in smaller environments. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105383	Thank you. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105384	... I'll be hearing from you right now. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So, as we come from the city of Karlovac and you and I remember that more than a dozen years ago, we started building new kindergartens, primarily with funds from the city budget. We have already realized that it is really necessary to ensure that the youngest in kindergartens actually stay. Of course, many environments are not in a situation to realise this themselves today, but through this programme, the ministry has also made a lot of EU funds there in the past term, and I think the process will continue. What is also certain is that it is left to units of local self-government and the possibility of co-financing of kindergarten prices and private kindergartens, which is also one solution, so I ask your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105385	Thank you. Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105386	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I'm talking about. So there are several measures, there are several possibilities. It clearly depends on the imagination of local leaders, their priorities, and I must say the same about their financial opportunities. But where there are really can be used, especially if there is synergy between the funds coming from the state level, including European funds. We have also used the vast majority of our cities and the measure from the European Social Fund to employ additional personnel, to introduce additional programmes in kindergartens where a quality of working in kindergartens is also increased. Speaking of these measures and possibilities, it's hard for us, to listen to me personally, here's what happened, it wasn't much of a thing. That really doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105387	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105388	Dear counterpart Murganic, in your debate, mentioned the possibility of providing funds in the state budget as well as a series of benefits that this law should adopt. You specifically mentioned often in today's debates of local leaders. As a local leader, what is particularly important to us is that in rural villages we can now organize in primary schools according to this new law preschool education. However, I would be interested to know how close this law is to the final goal, and this goal should be that every child has the right to enroll in kindergarten, that they all have equal rights, equal criteria and that they can actually have one national standard that they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105389	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105390	Well, the intensity of this law is exactly what I think it's going in that direction. Of course, the law could also be valorised and tested, and we should have institutions, or kindergartens, where it will be conducted regardless of criticism, regardless of profession. I respect the profession, but sometimes we also have to accept some real opportunities, which is that I think it's really good that there's a possibility of retraining the work and work of class teachers in preschool institutions especially if they want to and see their careers in it. They're similar to professions and regulations. I don't think there should be such a big blind spot. And certainly what we should also have stronger, the law has given us the opportunity but we should certainly try to have children with developmental difficulties equal conditions, opportunities and dancing, but also kindergarten education. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105391	Thank you. Representative Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105392	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Murganic, I don't think there's anyone here in the assembly who doesn't give credit to kindergarten workers and actually raise our children. This is the basis so that they could later become responsible and mature people throughout the vertical education. We mentioned local self-government units here. So we saw the difference between 70% and 30% of the involvement. I'm asking you, is there a responsibility of the head of the local self-government unit? If they have already accepted the conditions to have units of local self-government, why not meet those conditions. Because the easiest thing to say is I'm going to start units of local self-government, but I won't have a responsibility. It means we can't transfer responsibility to someone else. It means we can't transfer responsibility to someone else. It means we can take the one who has the responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105393	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105394	Thank you very much. Of course here I will say honestly and very briefly, if there are opportunities then there is a responsibility why it does not, if there is no reasonable possibility then it is up to it to do everything and to ask for help, it is known either from the competent unit of local or from the state to ensure everything necessary for the normal life of its fellow citizens and, of course, that responsibility as well as for all of us politicians will call them citizens. But you have to accept responsibility and try because there are certain possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105395	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105396	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Murganić, you are really through your work involved in demographic issues, and we heard here this morning in taking your club's position to hold that the measure is a parent parent's extremely good and demographic measure and in terms of dispensing the institutions for early child rearing, so here I am wondering if you are planning on, given your club's stated position, is this an announcement that perhaps the Government of the Republic of Croatia is planning to implement such a measure, and how much do you actually see a potential upgrade of the child care system through strengthening the role of nanny entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105397	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105398	Well, here I am, really, and I've already followed it here, and there's one platform in the ministry that I think, where all the data that all social or demographic measures are different are referred to at all levels of units of local and regional self-government in different environments, and there are really very different measures, there are different amounts. I, too, have always and when discussing this measure, represented the view that everything aimed at strengthening the family is aimed at improving the material position of the family’s status that I can really support it. I think that we can all have a consensus here, this measure has to do with me the only problem that he doesn't really allow the child to be equally involved in early and preschool education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105399	Dear Representative Dreven, we have a breach of our rules of procedure first. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105400	The Rules of Procedure are injured. In 238, therefore, the other parliamentary representatives are belittled in such a way that Mrs. Murganic assures us of something that is contrary to common sense. I will remind her that she voted against the "Parent raiser" measure at national level when voting the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105401	Well, that's not a breach of the rules of procedure, so you get a warning. Don't keep getting another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105403	So if there's all this stuff you said that you raised your hand against the amendment of the Sovereignist?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105404	Based on an article. 242. I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Let's move on, distinguished representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105405	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. Here, 10 years ago, we can say that there were extra breeders because there weren't enough kindergartens built, now that it's been investing in kindergartens since 2017 and of course there's a shortage and there's something to change in the education system to get a job because we see that the government is planning about 16,000 new jobs somewhere. So what I'm interested in is this inequality, or the units that are better developed, they have up to 75% of those who don't have up to 30%. I come from Varazdin County and I can say that recently and in my municipality, a kindergarten that is really for one small and for one rural environment means a lot. I think it's a kind of thing to keep these young families, to really allow them not only to have kindergarten but also to have classes. Schooling [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And my parents' job. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105406	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105407	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here I will now try to answer within my mind, and not out of my mind so that I tell you that there has been a lot of criticism on the scale of 7.4.Why the great kindergartens, expensive kindergartens, kindergartens by standards cost, especially in the current conditions of building prices of the city, let's just tell me what my colleague Vucilović said in rural settlements, but it's right there because what we've been saying about the Karlovo municipality is just kindergarten, and then school, so let's say the post office, so I don't know the shops, the ATMs, the pharmacy, and so it allows the citizens to stay in those environments. The first migrations began the village-city of ancient times during another government, but that was not how it was criticised at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105408	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then he'll speak to a respected representative, Anamarija Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105409	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. There is an interesting law ahead of us that we see from the debate, but I think that changes to the Law on Preschool Education and Education are necessary. I consider them positive at least in a step towards the full arrangement of preschool education systems in the Republic of Croatia. And if certain parts of the law that are now foreseen are already being implemented in practice in practice, this regulation was necessary and necessary, above all, because they will no longer leave doubts in dealing with certain situations. One of the examples above is that third educators who have appeared very often in practice, but its appearance or existence as such was not prescribed by law until now this final proposal in its article. 13. Prescribes when it can appear in the educational preschool process and what competences should be given to a person who is involved in the system. Another example is the conduct of an initial conversation with parents and a child before enrolment in kindergarten which has been held in some kindergartens for a long time, although it has not been laid down by any regulation, until in other kindergartens it was precisely because of the lack of a legal provision. These changes are also necessary in order to balance the conduct of all kindergartens and to regulate certain issues equally in all kindergartens regardless of the geographical location. Likewise, a clear regulation of issues relating to the Director's mandate was necessary, i.e. a clearly defined possibility of returning to the previous workplace in which and under what conditions. In practice, there have been very often concerns about these issues. Particular attention should be paid to the implementation of the enrolment procedure in kindergartens. In communication with kindergarten workers, I received information about the different ways in which the registration process was conducted. Although the law provides for the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act to kindergartens, guidelines are provided that explain the procedure more closely. According to those guidelines, no individual entry solutions need to be made, but applicants should be given all the rights resulting from the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the meantime, provisions governing the protection of personal data have entered into force, although there are numerous possibilities for the publication of data on accepted or denied registration requests, initials, codes, etc. or the delivery of an individual solution to the parent is a renegotiation of unequal behaviour within the same system. I believe that guidelines should be laid down for the implementation of the enrolment and registration procedure on the basis of which the procedure would be conducted in the same manner in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Children's kindergartens and founders have an obligation to organise a preschool programme, but they must also take care of the interests and needs of children and parents in their area. This calls for certain co-financing from the state budget of the entire pre-school education system, regardless of the co-financing of the pre-school programme of 20 kuna per month per child included in the compulsory pre-school programme carried out in the year prior to the start-up of the primary school, in order at least to disburse the founders and those who are fiscally sub-communicated. This also leads to an evening of the quality within the system. In these final amendments and Art. 2.St. 2. determines how the state budget will provide funding for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of which is local and regional self-government units based on the criteria and criteria laid down by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the government's fiscal policy, many municipalities and cities have increased their fiscal capacity and surely some of these funds have gone towards a pre-school education system, at least in the case of my city. By increasing the number of children enrolled in growth and financial needs, the economic prices of kindergartens, as well as the participation of parents are in great disproportionate proportion and it is necessary to provide funding from the state budget for fiscal sustainability. The implementation of the programme is not possible without an educator, and with the financing of their salaries there are other costs incurred by business. The founders have an obligation to ensure whatever is necessary and necessary for quality implementation of the programme, and with the help of the state budget, differences in quality should be reduced. We've set ourselves one goal that we want to achieve by the 1930s, and I think this is just one step towards it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105410	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Minister Blažević, you have certainly been able to use various funds used for such purposes, you have been able to organize it, you have been able to do something, what is the situation really like in Pakrac with your preschool education or with kindergartens and how do you see this opportunity, and will you be able to use it which is now in front of us regarding NPOO and kindergartens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105412	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105413	Thank you very much. Here's a chance for us to apply for measure 7.4.1, but I didn't do it because at that point I thought the city budget wasn't capable, now we're going to sign up, here on Tuesday will open the system and we'll sign up because we've been able to finish some projects. But what I've enjoyed has been 3 years. We are conducting a program of extended stay, therefore with the help of European funds, not all of us are in infrastructure, we need to invest very much in preschool education and in children, of course, and in educators who do so. So we try and have local leaders and leaders to take great care of this system because it is the basis for both us and our community and our entire society. The European funds are largely helping cities and municipalities, and here they should be used, but rationally, of course, according to the possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105414	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105415	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here comes the article. 3. of this Article shall be complemented. 14th Law in a way to prescribe the obligation of the representative body of the City of Zagreb to deliver a harmonised network of kindergartens to the Ministry of Education and to the competent minister of education to decide on a network of kindergartens of the Republic of Croatia. This provision introduces the notion of a network of kindergartens at national level, so I ask you what do you, like the head of JLS or the city of Pakrac, think about that decision and making about those networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105416	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105417	Thank you very much. I believe, of course, that all children should be covered by preschool education, and this very network of kindergartens can lead to that. Therefore, certain municipalities or even cities may have this cooperation, so children who are not, where the municipality does not have an organised pre-school education through that network can attend kindergarten in the first nearby municipality and that is a good thing in fact that cooperation between pre-school institutions is the same, and that pre-school can be organised in primary schools is related activities and should also take advantage of this capacity of infrastructure that primary schools have to ensure pre-school education for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105418	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105419	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Blažević. In your debate, you touched an article. 24th proposal of this law, which highlighted the importance of providing funding from the state budget that is necessary for the completion of investments financed from the EU projects right in local and regional self-government units, is therefore about the construction of kindergartens. And you also took note of the importance of looking at funding for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founders of which are local and regional self-government units based on the natural criteria to be laid down by the government regulation. You are the mayor of the town of Pakrac for many years, how do you view these provisions exactly and the fact that the law allows the allocation of funds from the state budget to assist local self-government units?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105420	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105421	Well, of course there's been a lot of talk about it today, it's necessary, it's necessary to ensure the equality of all of us because we see big differences. The differences are also in the economic price which is normal, the differences are in the participation of parents. Some units of local self-government don't have enough fiscal capacity to finance everything, so if we want what we've drawn in our national strategy by 2030. It is certain that fiscal aid is needed from the state budget in some way to finance pre-school education. Today, it was pointed out that it is going according to this, which I also think is good for this preschool to become a 0th grade in some ways, and that part when the state takes over it will significantly facilitate the financial part of the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105422	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105423	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. The aim of this law is to include as many children as possible in preschool education and, of course, to raise standards for all children in kindergartens, but here is colleague Bedeković, in part, touched exactly what I wanted to ask you, but this is certainly what our leaders of the local and regional self-government units are interested in, and these are funds from the state budget to complete the investment, but also work in those areas with the worst index of development. How much this will help our local leaders for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, you as a local leader certainly know it best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105424	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105425	Well, here's how I've already responded to my colleague, Bedekovic, I think it'll help. The same should be done, of course, of certain categorisations and fiscal capacities, i.e. the degree of development of certain cities and municipalities. But we all strive not to have waiting lists that children can enter the preschool education and education system, but once again I would point out carefully to be careful with certain investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105426	Dear representative Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105427	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague Blažević. Here you are the mayor of the town of Pakrac you mentioned before in yours if I am not mistaken for the reply to the replica and extended stay that works in your city. But I wonder if you have problems with the lack of educators in kindergartens, and how do you feel about allowing teachers to work with children instead of teachers, of course with the obligation of additional qualifications that we have already discussed today?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105428	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105429	Thank you very much. If we had a problem with breeders, there hasn't been enough of them lately we've had to open up additional groups and we're really trying to stick to the state pedagogical standard that determines what the number of children from the mangers per individual then kindergarten groups is, and that's a burden to us. Work and students, unprofessional representation is great. He believes that this part is good, he does not reduce, he does not discriminate against the educators that I truly appreciate were raised in the end by my children going to kindergarten I know what their job is and should stress that they are getting the possibility of employment in kindergarten unless there are no educators in that particular area, or he does not report to a public competition. And the only natural and related is this particular category that is stated in the law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105430	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105431	Thank you, Vice President, but I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105432	Okay. Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105433	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing a very important topic, and we absolutely must say at this point that this may be one of the most significant demographic measures and respect for the constitution that every child has the same right on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And believe me, because of the inability of kindergarten where parents who are employed can leave their diets to many leave these environments, these mainly rural areas of ours. And I'll do it again, 2000. in Barcelona, on the Council of Europe, a conclusion was reached at that time which accepted all the members by 2020. 90% of all children aged 3 to 7 have the right to kindergarten. However, not as something where we keep the dick, but to be exactly an institution where the dike di will be raised will be an education. That's a huge problem. All I can say is that the most important thing is to invest in young people. I come from Sinj from the Cetina region and from the Dalmatian Zagora, half of Sinj which is most perspective. And if there's anything of interest, then it's an interest to invest in young people. It's a far cheaper life than in Split, only of course it's always a problem county, infrastructure, this problem of example County has taken over education, education but it doesn't invest in school as much as it should, so I, as a local head of above standard, have to give to high schools to make something possible. And with health care homes, the same thing. However, even this extended stay for children I am willing to finance more than one unit local. All students who do not exercise their right on any other basis have a scholarship of 800 kuna, only enough to sign a new year academic. As for kindergarten, I immediately raised the kindergarten from 950 kuna to 1450 kuna subsidies to reduce the parents. Every other child for free. If he has a parent, Mr. Brcic knows it well. As for the town of Sinj and all these measures for young people, our families remain because in Split there are 5,000 euros square, and in Sinj it is because the former mayor is now a fellow representative in the town of Sinj and knows that they are such measures. It means every student. High school kids take free rides to all the students. That's what I'm gonna do. When I came to me, it was amazing that 180 kids had no right to enroll, that we didn't have any projects. What did I do first? A project that can run for EU funds. Within 20 days, we didn't have a country, a list of assets, it was during the government while HDZ was ahead of me, not a single project. That's not what I'm telling you, it's a fact, everybody knows it. Within 20 days, I found land, made a project and ran it. But he didn't pass. I'd like my colleague Brcic to replicate it for me. Of course the Cetina province was forgotten and I'm glad that, here I am again, my colleague Brcic remembered, never agglomerated until he was a mayor he never mentioned it. But I'm glad to mention now that the problem has been solved and the god of the Blue Alks had to sign the agglomeration, otherwise he would never have signed. We have another problem, one huge problem. We have a problem with talking about the standards of 20 kids, 22 kids, no matter. However, it's very important to me that I am here the church was being built that I mentioned in the Brnazas, St. Nicole. I only cooperate in the part of the church city of Sinj is defined with the province of the Most Holy Redeemer and now this kindergarten is in high construction. That's where we're going to get rid of 80 kids in church, and I'm not ashamed of it because it belongs to the community, the community invested money in that part. And so we can solve problems, not solve problems that when I hear that a project is running in Split-Dalmatia County eee there is no mayor Bulj ours will not get this project that we have a competition. That's probably how I don't believe it's going to be at the ministry level. And that you will meet mainly with these permits of 600 children, the institution that the institution must have 600 children. So we have to go out and meet. The bigger the problem is that we in units have over 22, over 25, six, seven, eight children. And that's the problem, that's a huge problem. So once again, investment in young people is the most important thing, and that's what we're trying to do. Equal development can only be respected if every employee, each aunt has the same salary in Sinj and Gospić and Zagreb. And who can do that? The state can because 40% of local self-government units don't have financial capacities, they don't organize for one kindergarten child. For one Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105434	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105435	Dear colleague, I am interested in the situation of preschool education in Sinj when you took over the government and what you did since it was heard that children simply did not have kindergartens down in Sinj. So I'm quite interested in what you've done, and has it improved the situation, and how are the children in Sinj now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105436	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105437	Thank you very much. Yes, when I arrived 180 children were not enrolled in Vrtić. At that point, of course, reduced to 80 children. I immediately entered into negotiations as I said with the province of the Most Holy Redeemer where we have solved now and at a high stage is the construction of kindergartens where 80 children will be dealt with by the Jaslic and Preschool. And that's how I immediately started making project documentation for kindergartens in Glavica. It is the largest local board, the largest village that has no status of the municipality. Something about four and a half, 5,000 inhabitants, so that was Karakasica, too, that part of my project documentation came to an end. Now, of course, we're going to run this project and we're running, but not in the first one, he didn't have enough points because they were limited funds. And most importantly, I've made a decision that every child that isn't registered, and local self-government is guilty, their parents have a thousand kunas a month's fee. 1,000 kunas each child has a monthly fee for, which is not entered. A local self-government unit unfortunately assumes all responsibility, and that would be the country's tribal. It is the only city in the Republic of Croatia where they were born, which did not enrol have the right to... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105438	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105439	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, we often have a story in Zagreb that by saving from this measure a parent parent who has now been very questionable was a legitimate decision, we will see that there will be some means to build new kindergartens. And it actually creates a certain narrative as if the kindergarten were built overnight. We'll make certain kindergartens and we'll do it overnight. In Zagreb, there is a major problem with these capacities, and in fact the pedagogical standards are being violated, because the issue of this lack of space in kindergarten is being resolved by increasing the number of children to certain squares prescribed by teaching standards and then solving the problem, and in fact kindergartens are not being built. But you proved what I thought was impossible in fact within a very short time you managed to build a kindergarten and thus solve the question of kindergarten capacity, and those children who did not enroll in kindergarten there you gave certain funds. So here's a little comment on the situation in Zagreb and Sinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105440	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105441	Well I listened in Zagreb, my colleague Puljak is also in Split, my colleague Puljak said he would finish 3 kindergartens immediately. I don't know how it can end right now, do I? It can be run. I, of course, solved the problem with the church. with the province of the Holy Redeemer in the part of the church i.e. The building I've solved that part and that building is now near the end, it's one project, the city of Sinj invests just over 3 million kunas of course with all the obligations that the city takes over and that's, it's, it's smart management and that church belongs to the community to involve children and it's very important. As far as this project is concerned, we immediately built a project, but I don't see these projects or the mayor of Split Puljko, and I haven't seen them, they said three times that, and I have this project that I did and I ran for what didn't go through at that stage because it was 50 and something by points it doesn't matter. So it's important to build and do projects. I'm very short as mayor, but believe me, I'm disappointed as mayor when I saw we don't have any projects about kindergartens. And of course... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105442	Thank you very much. Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105443	Dear counterpart Bulj here we have heard a lot about the jurisdiction of local self-government units in relation to the authority of the state authorities over how children's kindergartens should function in the Republic of Croatia. Can you explain to me from your own example what you lack, and what you think is the responsibility of the state government in relation to the local self-government unit because we have a situation in which preschool education is mandatory, while the state is not concerned with ensuring equal conditions for all children in all kindergartens in the Republic. And when I specifically asked about children with developmental difficulties they said it could be provided by a communication expert, but they don't need to, they don't want to impose it on local self-government units, and they won't take care of it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105444	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105445	40% of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia have no ability to provide finance for one child and it is unfortunate what aunts in undeveloped areas that work in kindergarten have much less salary than in developed parts of cities. And that state needs to regulate and assume that obligation because it can't be an aunt in kindergarten I don't know in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Gorski kotar, Slavonia no matter or anywhere less than elsewhere. For what? Is that injustice? And we have equality before the Constitution that we are all equal. So 40% of local self-government units have no ability, no financial capacity. This was decided by other countries that they had decentralised the funds directly into areas that were not, more developed countries that were unable to provide kindergartens. And this is the strongest demographic measure that every child has the same option, whether in Zagreb, whether in Sinj, or in Gospić, whether in Gorski Kotar or Zagorje. So every child Under the Constitution, he must have the same right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105446	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105447	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bulj, I honestly didn't mean to rephrase it, but since you called me here on two occasions, it wouldn't be knightish if I didn't get into one communication. I am pleased at first, here you have said that you are in favour of the even development of the town of Sinj, so I am happy that you have accepted one declaration by the Split-Dalmatia County, which has been a guideline of action for years to promote the even development of each part of the county. When it comes to the Brnazas and the possible use of the pastoral centre for kindergarten, here I am also glad that we are here, and my smallness while I was deputy mayor financially got involved and I have no problem recognising everything that is well done especially when working on these topics that should not be politically manifested [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So and so on and so forth. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] kindergarten... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand ses.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105448	Your Honor, the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105449	You colleagues of Brčić how now Sinjanin, a citizen of the city of Sinj, must know that our children students have benefits, here you know and extended stay, I agree no one, no city gives as much as the city of Sinj, and what is the obligation of the county that gives its commitment. So on this issue we have no problem, and as far as the church is concerned, it was the construction of the church where the city of Sinj participated, I'm talking about kindergarten only the city of Sinj finances along with the province of the Holy Redeemer. The second is the construction of the church, you were building a church here in Brnaze along with the town of Sinj, we all donated to the dishes that were donated to the Franciscans, but the city of Sinj made a decision to go to that part in the church space to build a church and we finance that part and it will be the long-term rent of the town of Sinj where a drawer from Brnaz will go and of course I am glad that you admit it because you are now a resident of the town of Sinja. And I wish you'd been more active as mayor and helped our development of our region. I'm afraid what's in there... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105450	Now the next one will be spoken by a respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105451	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and respected peoples who follow us, if at least children in our kindergartens around Croatia had square meters in their kindergartens like we have here in the assembly, how much better this childhood would be for them than they do now and now, because unfortunately here is one of the most important strategic topics for the Republic, which is, that is, preschool education of our children, we are 1/5 here in the assembly. And you see our children have a meter to a half meter square and they grow up so we as a legislative body at least formally made it possible to have 5 m2 and develop normally, but actually what's real on the ground is that it's 1.5 m2 per child. And now we'll discuss here today, we'll bring some amendments, and we'll have enough to go maybe 5 km from the Croatian Parliament in Gornja Dubrav in Vrtić Poletarac, Ljevakovic at three addresses of Zvonimir Ljevaković 32, 28, I repeat Zvonimir Ljevaković 32, 28, and you'll see that our children are therefore one metre square, that they sleep on mats and that the kindergarten is located in a boiler room in a building that is 40 years old. And not only do they have funny conditions for their growth, growth and development, but what if they lump up that boiler room and then we'll have our children on our souls, so the ministry here is supposed to control something like that. ... That's right, so he's the founder, but on the other hand, that's the problem that we need here and the ministry to tell the founder where the representatives sit here because the Polletac kindergarten is the best example where you also have the drug sprays standing next to the kindergarten where children can't play. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here are some of the problems. So in rooms from 20 to 40 m2 on average, 25 to 35 children. Furthermore, do you know how many cities and municipalities on average in Croatia are separated by trade unions to feed the child in the entire kindergarten program, 10 kuna. So who can explain to me what three meals children can eat for 10 kuna? Did you know that milk is seen once or twice a month and diluted with water? It is a Serb which a large number of JLSs, with the resolute approval of the ministry, provide children of early and preschool age. Do you know that educators spend their time working for the same employer on a contract on an average of 4 to 10 years.? Do you know that the growing number of these highly educated experts are early and preschool teachers who cannot afford to work on contracts on certain, work on short substitutes by various institutions with great uncertainty, which is why they leave the profession and are employed in other activities or are going from country to other countries where they are valued and work in decent conditions? Did you know that our trainees have an obligation to do 12 months of traineeship, but that they actually serve no less than a cheap workforce on occasional substitutes without mentors, without a systematic employment plan collecting a month by month internships in various places to collect these necessary 12 months and achieve the right approach to taking a professional examination and everything, of course, at the expense of our children? Did you know that such an effort for the 12 months of traineeship aside from waiting at all for the possibility of interning, as a rule, until the conditions for enrollment are met and up to 2 and 3 years, is it strange then that the educator is missing? As far as raisers are concerned, it is important to say that some work up to 10 to 12 hours a day and that is a great and psychological and physical effort that can then be seen at the time of taking sick leave. Now that's the price and that's reality on the ground, and we can gather here in a half-empty assembly to pass certain laws while our children suffer at a meter square. It's the reality of the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105452	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105453	Dear fellow Troscott, you have also referred to the position of our breeders, indeed the people who have been systematically ignored, rather than increasing the quotas for the enquiries which are the only long-term solution and create the preconditions that people really want and do this job we are trying to create some fire measures here where we will temporarily hire teachers who will retrain themselves on what criteria, and all to satisfy Brussels standards without creating conditions, at the expense of our children and at the expense of our breeders. How you comment in this regard and the current situation that is present in most kindergartens where these educators are placed in a position that they literally have to pray to parents for expendable material in order to animate children and achieve the programme they are assigned to within kindergartens, that is to say, they must humiliate themselves and parents who may not have the material means to enable their children to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105454	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105455	You are rightly respected fellow Selak Rasudiæ, the position of our breeders and the breeder is extremely difficult, except that long hours do not have the right to replace themselves, they take the sick because they cannot withstand this physical and psychological effort, they have responsibility for 25 to 35 children themselves, or they themselves, while the European standard may be 8 to 10 children per, by that category of child, so these are extremely difficult conditions which make very few people today will be encouraged to study preschool education and stay in Croatia to work in these conditions which they have. At 12. Since the first law was passed, in fact, on respecting standards in preschool education, so it has not changed on the ground and, unfortunately, every year, the founder puts even more pressure on those breeders to enroll more children in the kindergarten category.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105456	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105457	Comrade Troscott, you mentioned empty councils, I am also mayor as well as other colleagues, so I came here to discuss from Sinj 400 km precisely this law to exchange opinions and problems, so I didn't come here just to sit, so I would only briefly say that the fact that the state must be involved in the equality of pay and rewards and everything that belongs to our aunts is irrelevant in which part of the Republic of Croatia and the equality of every diet in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is impossible if the state doesn't get involved. 40% of JLS have no opportunity for one child to organize kindergartens and these are mostly undeveloped areas of course, but the focus is always towards Zagreb, is always somehow towards Zagreb, Split, Rijeka. But we have 2/3 of RH empty because we don't have these key demographic measures and we don't respect the constitution towards that end, which is that every child has the same right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105458	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott. Thanks, buddy Bull. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105459	Since you come as a representative of one of the local self-government units, I would like to tell you that there are very examples throughout Croatia where unfortunately our children are victims, literally of this one political war on state, county and local level. For example, if you are not, if the local unit is not the same party as the ruling one, you can plan in your budget for the local unit kindergarten, for example, that you will build specifically in Sinj, but at the county level for that money that you planned the county can lay down a county bridge or, for example, a county road that has not been renovated for years and you are then the money that was intended for the construction of maybe kindergarten, you must go at that point to rebuild either the county bridge or the county road. Unfortunately, the victims of this political war are children again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105460	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105461	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Troscott, when I replicated my colleagues to Bulya, I heard some reaction here from a colleague from the Green-Left block club, but I don't know why. So, I told the truth, and the truth is that we are very likely to have this measure, "Parent raiser" in Zagreb, not because the former mayor cared about demographic restoration but because he was aware of a problem of lack of kindergarten. And they went in the direction of abolishing these measures without initially solving this problem and talking about it as if the lack of such places could be solved overnight and kindergartens were built overnight, almost faster than children do. That's how it works when we listen to them, and we know they didn't do anything about it. And then when I warn about their one unreasonable move because it was going to break over the knee, it seemed illegal. Then react in this way. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105462	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105463	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. So, the situation is such that the decision that the city's immediate administration in the City of Zagreb has at the very least been legally debated for the reason that we are now waiting for the decision of the administrative court in which the city administration has responded. If the legal provision is illegal, we will have a mayor who makes illegal decisions, if it is legal at that time we will have great pressure on the preschool education system in the City of Zagreb for the reason that it is somewhere around 6,000 kindergarten children who do not exist in the City of Zagreb. So now I've set an example in Upper Dubrava where children sleep on mats and have before representatives and local self-government and state-sponsored ministry where they're like sardines per 1 metre square.../The speaker's off./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105464	Thank you very much. Dear representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105465	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, from today's debate, I must say, even if the positional representatives aren't too excited about these amendments to the law, they've even criticized themselves in some way. What we all know, and that's that ruling never realizes that kindergartens are not guardians, but educational institutions. However, I will now repeat what I said in the replica to begin with, and that is that it is clear that the intensities of the resolution ministry and the rulings have been to abolish the DPS, the state pedagogical standard that we must be honest not until now is not respected because the units of the local self-government because of the burden of financial which has been placed on their backs cannot respect it, so I cannot respect that they have an employee educator of 8 to 12 children, and on the other hand, the resolution ministry doesn't care much about respecting the DPS when they simply didn't ask for an analysis of the implemented DPS, and they don't ask to respect what is a legal obligation, which is to submit an annual report on the DPS. But let's move forward, this is already the fourth amendment to the law that actually has nothing to do with the text produced by the working group and does not represent and has no basis in the voice of the profession. I think that's quite clear from the fact that if you look at the results of the public consultation before the first reading, the ruling has received 306 criticisms, no praises, no suggestions but no less than 306 criticisms that we have to say 99% have not been taken into account. On the other hand, today in our educational institutions in the early preschool and education system, human and security conditions are actually catastrophic. What is good is what rests on enthusiasm, will, commitment and efforts of employees in this system, as well as the founders of local self-government units who work as hard as they can from their budgets to ensure the best conditions for the quality of our children's educational process. I must say that I am really alarming that our educators are among the most educated in the EU-wide system, but also in the world, and they have the lowest wages in parallel. So, not only in the EU, but in the rest of the world, our educators today have the lowest wages. On the other hand, these amendments to the law want to solve the problem of class teacher surpluses in a disastrous way. We today, I don't know how much you're up to, but we have a problem with the educator deficit, today is about 3,000, and in the long term perception, we have a problem with missing about 7,000 educators, and we have a major surplus of class teachers. And the ministry rather than systematically entering into the solution to this problem, to sit at the table and the Ministry of Labour with HZZ, with high universities, to make a nice attempt to bring the quotas in line with the needs of the labour market, what is our resolution ministry doing here? Let's solve the problem, here's class teachers becoming all educators after requalification that doesn't exist as such anywhere in the world. Nowhere in the system will you find this requalification possible. On the other hand, the related professions of educational rehabilitators, psychologists, and all others who could and should work in the system are also demoted, only class teachers will be able to do so. To be clear, we also consider that such a measure can be temporary in the name of the club, that class teachers should be helped in this way, but also in the entire system of early preschool education, but in no way permanent and we feel that even class teachers themselves do not want to work on it because they simply did not education. On the other hand, what we consider to be very important are two things, finally to determine the minimum economic price of kindergartens, but not in a way that the ruling takes the smallest from the least underdeveloped parts of Croatia, but the real one that is needed to ensure the quality of the educational process. And what we consider to be the second most important thing, which is finally, I repeat at last because for decades it hasn't been done, even the salaries to the educators and again as a principle of this economic price. Do not take wages from the poor parts of Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora where the educators have shameful 3.5, 4,000 kunas that are today's cost of life can be said miserable but allow them a dignified life so that they can cover the expenses of monthly life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105466	We have a replica of respected MPs and Vice President Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105467	Thank you very much. A colleague of RADOLović, you offered me a line saying that our educators have very low wages if we compare them with the EU, which is partly true, but if we consider that they are one of the most educated in the world, then this part where their salaries are actually where they are, somewhere they are 4,000 kuna, somewhere they are 8, 9,000 kuna. And now the question that I ask myself and you is, have we made a mistake when we went towards complete decentralisation in the sense that the founders are individually negotiating with workers, city kindergarten employees and contracting these salaries where they are better agreed even some other rights somewhere worse than those systems financed from the state budget, that's basic and secondary schooling, and where all rights are balanced by border collective agreements?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105468	Dear Representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105469	So I'll always be for decentralisation of the system, but of course I think they're in a subordinate position here, especially because you've stated that basic and secondary education is being financed from the state budget today and I think we should somehow get to that system. Of course, that would leave with some kind of, we could say leave it to the weighty local and founding units that those who are freed to burden the local budget have to raise the quality of the programme in educational educational institutions, but I certainly think that this has started to be too much of a burden especially for those less developed areas and that it will not be able to push much further. Here we have seen the ruling say that you can get a job, watch out for a third raiser, I don't even know what that formula means, instead of an assistant for children with developmental difficulties, and I personally think that this needs to be financed and has to be ensured. from the state budget. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105470	Thank you very much. We're going to take a short break now, and I've been asked from the information service, so we're going to stop by 16,15 minutes. [[It's 4:09 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,18 HOURS]] Here's an esteemed colleague and colleagues, we can continue our work, so now they will speak to the respected representative Rade Simičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105472	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here's without intending to, yes, yes, yes, to praise me I'll try to really think this way in the direction of how to help breeders, how to help children in kindergartens, and how to overcome this problem of staff. What I wanted to say before is actually we're talking about the white plague and the lack of population, so actually demographic reconstruction should be the foundation of the state, but we can't say that it started yesterday. If we take Europe, then the whole EU can actually see what we have from Europe that was the 1960s, the '70s, the '80s to today. Unfortunately, another problem that is present in Croatia is that we no longer have the rural part, that all those who could have gone to cities are clearly creating a problem in the cities of how to place people in kindergartens. Various scientific research has shown that one who attends kindergarten achieves better success in elementary school or throughout the educational vertical. Likewise, 2014 The decision was made to take children from 6 and a half to 7 years of age. They need to attend preschool, and 2.g. Before going to school, children with developmental difficulties and children whose Croatian language is not their native language would be able to provide equal actually educational opportunities for everyone. As for the rate of enrolment in JLS, we are witnessing that on the one hand we have 75% coverage, on the other hand we have 30% and clearly there can be a question of JLS itself. If someone is founded to exist, to fulfil all obligations, then the problem of early and preschool education should also be addressed. We all know that whoever wants to find a way, and whoever won't find it, finds an excuse. And we can't deny it here, no matter what I say, I don't want to brag about this or that, but these are the facts that we've built, built or reconstructed over the past few years in 498 kindergartens of total value 2 billion kuna and it can't be denied, that's, it's present, and now the new NPOO is projected a billion and 200 million kuna, which is indeed an opportunity and I believe we'll take advantage of it. Thus, the capacity of children would be increased by 22 000 and 500. Investment in early preschool education and education aims to improve educational outcomes, reduce regional differences, create assumptions for root education reforms that should lead to improvement and enable all 6-year-olds to provide a place in early preschool education and education. And here I just want to, I want to point out the possibility that primary education teachers are hired, but only where there is no possibility where there is no expert staff. We are actually witnessing that 50%, almost 50% of similar colleges have primary education teachers and preschool educators. So it's not about whether someone will work professionally or not, but simply how to solve the problem where it exists. Some JLS have dealt with it in a way that co-finances private kindergartens up to that price, over the price they pay, paid by parents in, in founding schools. And lastly, it's important to note that we now have the possibility of electronic enrollment and that we might be able to solve a lot of problems that are currently... [[The speaker is not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105473	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105474	Dear fellow you have said well, it is necessary for your children to have preschool education, although it is not about this amendment to the law, but it is related to them, so I appeal to the representatives of the ministry who are not listening to me right now. So we have examples where we had a situation where pedagogical standards were when they changed that they set some rigorous criteria that had nothing to do with reality in the sense of what was before the talk of squareness. For example, we designed a children's kindergarten for 100 children in the meantime, the pedagogical standards changed, and it was no longer for 100 children, but for 70 children. In parallel, we have a private kindergarten that is in the ordinary house, has 45 children, and the whole house stops in this kindergarten that was designed for 100 children. So here's my appeal to you when you're making this bill and making new pedagogical standards to take care of it, and also to these babysitters and babysitting at home because we just have capacities for a lot more children than we have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105475	Thank you very much, thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105476	Thank you, dear Vice President. Thank you, colleague. So that we really have to take care of kindergarten as a whole, raisers and kindergartenrs really invest everything in order for children to get the basics that will later serve them in further education because scientific research means not street research but scientific research has confirmed that children who are included in kindergarten achieve much better success through primary education. The pedagogue standard is the cancer of the wounds right now, and I believe that this ministry and this government will also find ways through this now newer billion and 200 million kuna, and it is clear through certain changes in the law that it would really allow children to be raised there, not to keep children there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105477	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105478	Dear Representative, what has been done well should be commended, and what is wrong with it should be warned not to be tarnished and called out for it but to be warned that these mistakes would be corrected. We have one problem in Croatia, which is that one part of the kindergarten that has been made cannot be opened at all because it was not meant for the next step, which is the economic viability of these kindergartens. On the one hand, you have in certain units of local self-government that kindergartens are still closed, they were built maybe a year, two, and they don't open because the local self-government unit simply can't cover the costs of that kindergarten. On the other hand, kindergartens that are out of the big environments, urban environments are dislocated, but they have a good traffic connection they are overcrowded because they actually drive children from the cities to those kindergartens. And there were problems, it wasn't about the next step. Everything that's been happening to us with our sports halls is going to happen to us with kindergartens if something doesn't go centralised and if it doesn't come to attention in time and it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105479	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105480	Thank you. My dear colleague, I couldn't agree more with you. What is good should be nurtured and developed to be even better, what is wrong should be removed from the system. I mean, are we always fast at that right now that's the same question, but surely here I am as a long-time employee in the system of education and education I have to say, but I really don't think that, as it says, praise me my mouth, but that of all the systems in the state of education and education system, the best works. I hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105481	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105482	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shimičević, you mentioned in your debate so much controversy over one thing, and these are teachers who can get a job but as the law itself says only in the lack of educators whom I must truly admit and in my city do a great job, so I would be interested to know that since you are a man who comes from the profession of high school who is your opinion and what alternative could be offered at times when we as the leaders of the local community do not have enough and no one reports a tender for a teacher, and a teacher and we are sincere most related to it, which alternative would be to that if he is not a teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105483	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105484	I thank my colleague, that Article 11 also says that a primary education teacher can be employed in kindergartens provided that within 2 years a number of colleges are laid down. I believe, but I really believe it won't take a swing at the Republic of Croatia and I believe that the raisers will do their jobs, teachers their jobs. However, we must bear witness that in some parts of the Republic of Croatia where we have universities that many more people go out to the labour market than they are guaranteed and automatically asked where and when they will get their job. Whoever wants a job can find it, whoever doesn't will wait and ask if they will get such an opportunity, but it's important here to stress that this teacher will never have the advantage over the breeder who completed the call for the raiser, only in an emergency where there is no expert staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105485	Thank you very much. The next replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Simicevic, I think that this government is very concerned, we can finally say that we have a government that takes care of preschool education even though it is exclusively with municipal activities, preschool education only let's say the real responsibility of local self-government. And it's good for the government to create this framework and at the same time offer a hand of help. It is let's build a number of facilities and provide only through this program now and open public call 22,000 not, possible accommodation units when talking about preschool children. So I'm a little saddened by this debate that went in the direction of going to find something that's wrong now, and that's where little teachers might have tried and said that maybe it bothers them whether teachers can do the job of the raiser. I think we have experience, they show that I can, and now if we're going to put it into law, I hope it doesn't become a rule, it's an exception that you're talking about, and it's going to be used in cases where there's really no others. And I think it's justified and that this is the one who wrote it right. I think that needs to be clarified. So that there wouldn't be anything left unsettled. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105487	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105488	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, dear colleague, yes, I absolutely agree with you. Gardens are surrounded by local self-government, but here the EU government is investing big money from recovery funds and resilience. It must not be blind and deaf to say that big money is being invested that will ultimately allow the expansion of children’s coverage for 22,500 new kindergarten users. And that's where the government really needs to be recognized. As far as teachers are concerned, I really don't think they will, that there won't be a large number, but the problem is that it's really better to work as a primary education teacher who has almost 50 colleagues, 50% colleges than someone else. We are witnesses, unfortunately, that we in the education and education system have, have, The deficit frame is also trying to solve it, but not in this quality way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105489	Next up for debate is colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've already put some emphasis on our objections to this law that has good intensity, there are good moments, but there are some other things that can be corrected and improved. Now, in an individual debate, I'm going to focus a little bit on the more detailed things that actually bother the people that this law applies to, and these are employees in preschool education and education or its users. I would start with children with developmental difficulties, they are a particularly vulnerable group and otherwise we have a problem that they are quite often, it is known that their early preschool education system is inaccessible, that they are unable to engage in kindergartens, that they rarely happen and pressures to exclude children from kindergarten because as there is no adequate support that can take a maximum from the potential of the child or on the other hand, calculations in terms of enrolling a number of children because we know that if you enroll one child with difficulties, in which case you need to reduce each child's education group by 2 or 4 children, there are various problems and manipulations, so I think that in this Act, which I already mentioned in the replica, I think it is necessary that each child with difficulties, such as this system is in primary school education, and in high school education, find a way that they will not be provided with help in this class, i. Such a constellation where we put the possibility that if the local self-government unit has money, we will actually have a state that will not, unfortunately, be satisfactory and we will not guarantee every child equal access to education. Furthermore, what people who work in the system also warn is the fact that a regulation should be defined which should clarify the behaviour of a child with developmental difficulties in the institution because a parent is obliged to carry out recommended tests in order to collect as much information as possible about child’s abilities and difficulties. If the type and degree of difficulty determines that the child in a specific programme and establishment does not progress satisfactorily, or if the kindergarten is not able to provide the child with the appropriate conditions, the child shall be referred to the nearest kindergarten that can allow it. In such a transition, it is necessary to prescribe that these two institutions should cooperate fully in order to facilitate the transition of children and parents. The second, equally, regulation should more clearly define the tasks of professional associates and educators compared to working with a child with special needs. Individualized programs we know are written by educators, rehabilitators and psychologists. However, we have institutions, i.e. kindergartens where we do not have these professional profiles, there are no professional associates of the appropriate profile, so it is necessary by regulation or by some regulation to provide a child with difficulties with an appropriate individual program in collaboration with experts from other kindergartens. Equally, what matters in art. 20th century 6 of the current Law, but the possibility of conducting an initial conversation with parents and a child before enrolment is prescribed. It would be good if that initial conversation were mandatory. What we have already mentioned many times today, that it is assumed that persons who have completed a teaching study should, within 2 years of the day of establishing a working relationship, acquire the qualification of educators based on the recognition of acquired learning outcomes in the study for teachers and the differences of the requalification programme should be referred to in kindergartens, if we are forced to do so, then these temporary solutions must be implemented with very important following comments. First of all, we do not see any reason not to expand the concept of related studies by completing a working relationship in kindergarten at the teacher’s workplace in a way that along with teachers can be persons who have completed a study of pedagogy, social pedagogy, educational rehabilitation and psychology. Secondly, it is necessary to strictly limit the duration of the working person for persons who are employed with completed related studies, because this must not be permanent but only a temporary measure. Third, the state must worry about providing adequate quotas in the coming period to cover the needs of this coverage from 97% of children from 4th to 4th year, from 4th year until school leave until 2030. Unprofessional replacements should not be the holders of the educational process or cannot work independently but only with the presence of an educator who has the appropriate qualification during the acquisition of the additional qualification cannot be put in a privileged position in such a way that they do not have the status of trainees and that they do not take a professional examination. Here, that would be brief, there was more, but we just don't get there, okay, I have a couple of replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105491	Thank you. Here, as soon as my colleague answered, there was already a replica. The first one came forward, Mrs. Devereaux. Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105492	Thank you, dear Vice President. A colleague of the Voice. We have already heard here several times today that, by simply ruling these amendments of the law, they don't really want any fundamental changes in the system but simply pursue the number of 96% of children involved in early and preschool education and education so that they can use the resources from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan exclusively to build physical accommodation facilities without the financing of staff and other cold drive. How do you comment on the fact that there is a need to provide new 22,000 enrolment points, i.e. quotas in educational institutions, and that, let's say, in the Brod-Posavina County, education institutions attend only 18.9% of children, while in Zagreb, 90%. With the best will, a race that is run and a struggle with time, here, I am interested in your comment on how you think such disproportionate will manage to secure in some parts of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105493	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105494	Obviously, they think it's a permanent solution to care for, I'll put it that way, class teacher in pre-school education. But what I forgot to say, and it's extremely important in an individual debate, I am in favour of it being a temporary solution, but they can only have a working permit to work in a pre-school and education system for a limited period of time. They can't happen, they just can't, with promise now something that's impossible, they can't get the qualification of teachers by partially retraining them for two years because it defines a completely different law and it's a system of higher education that's in their film and so it should be. You can't do this in this way, work permit for temporary work yes, but you can't gain speed through that stop tape entering the system, staying in it and assigning qualifications for which there are no legal elements. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105495	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105496	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. There has been a lot of disdain with the right of course and profession and science that, in fact, in all dimensions of quality such a single law has been scheduled and regarding the access of staff, curricula, monitoring and evaluation and management and financing. Well, now that you've talked a little bit more about employees, I agree that this is just a temporary measure that there are related occupations that take over, but of course it's a matter of how long. The fact is that it comes out annually according to the data that I have some 500 completed educators, it's already missing 3,000 in the long run, 7,000 in the long run. I mean, how long is this temporary period going to last and at all what amendments do these laws that I say both profession and science say are bad? And as far as we can tell, there are colleagues from the ruling majority who have certain doubts about this law. Here's your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105497	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105498	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105499	First, it doesn't say anywhere that this is a temporary measure in that, and it's a problem. Secondly, the recognition of qualifications is promised, or the award of a qualification, of an educator who knows qualifications is acquired through the completion of a particular educational or higher education programme, and there is a simple space for it, people are promised something that is not realistic. It's delusion number two. Number three, what you're saying is true, this particular analysis issued by the Ministry of Social Policy was created a simulation that by 2030. We are obliged to provide 9,148 educators to meet the Barcelona objectives and the DPS. So without systematic strategic management of human potentials, talks with colleges and ensuring enough professional people to wear this early preschool education system, this law will unfortunately remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105500	Thank you. The next call came from Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105501	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues will continue about where you have stopped in your reply to the replica. So we can have a feeling all the time that when it comes to amendments and additions to the law that we are working on amendments and amendments to the law to satisfy the form. And then we meet the form through changes and additions to the law do what we need to do, but then we come to reality. If we know now, let's make it a 9,000 figure that we need a kindergarten teacher, let's make it a figure, and we know that yearly can get them out of school so 500, we can figure out exactly how many years it takes to achieve it. So we just need to know what we want, what we want and what we want to do. I have a feeling that this law too is actually satisfying the form, and that to the reality of these results and these forms will not be and that we should give responsibility to and do a law that will be applicable, and not to which we will satisfy And the word cartoons is okay. [[Invadica Vidovic: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105502	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105503	This means this information about 9,148 is now maybe a little bit different because it was done two years ago, but let's say that by 2,000 smaller, what you said is true, somewhere around 630 is the quota of enrolled students a year, of course we don't have a finality such that we can say that everything that's written down in three or five years that we'll be able to manage it. We need to say the estimate is about 200 let's say it's a year that should be employed by 2030 we don't have it right now. With this kind of approach, we won't even have it, I'm afraid. But that's also an approach to this funding, where the government says we're going to help co-finance a larger share of maybe eu funds and to maintain a cold drive, but it doesn't say anywhere by what criteria, by some decision of a regulation of unclear criteria, that's not the way we should go, that's what we had to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105504	That's right, thank you. There's no more replicas. Next up for debate, representatives of Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105505	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries, directors of the Education and Education Administration. Here is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Preschool Education and Education Act. If time allows me, I will only briefly refer to some of the remarks that were accepted between the first and second readings, which were somehow the most important. In addition to those observations concerning the legal and nomotechnical arrangements of certain provisions, a large number of remarks have been taken both by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and by some other committees and by representatives individually. What I would like to put an emphasis on, and what I welcome, is an amendment to the provisions of the article. 3. which concerns curricula documents and their adoption, with the aim of achieving assumptions about the adoption of a national preschool curricula which would firstly determine the principles of educational goals, and then educationally educated expectations with a plan and method of implementation, I think it is extremely important. What I further find important is that it has really defined more precisely the possibility of hiring teachers of primary education as non-professional persons. I understand that during this past time, indeed in public and professional space there has been one fear of the profession above all of the educators, one of the pillars of therefore a threat by the teachers this one, however, I think that in this now more precisely defined formulation is really much clearer. Therefore, it is possible for a primary education teacher to be employed in kindergarten as an unprofessional person, but when a person who meets the requirements of an educator does not appear in the competition, provided that within 2 years of the date of establishment of a working relationship, the teacher is qualified. And if she doesn't do it within a year, her work relationship stops and she's coming out of the system somehow. What I want to point out and I think it's important to say that I think this is, not an intensities of some kind, according to some kind of permanent law of intricacy, but it's only open legal possibility here as an exception, and not in any way as some practice that will be, to become something permanent and continuous. And in this way, I believe that the law makes one intervention to address the problem of the educator deficit that we currently have, and certainly there are high schools, our universities that educate future educators who should take care of the needs of the labour market and of course increase the registration quotas for these study programmes. I have already talked about Article 24 through replicas, the importance of where this law first allows the provision of funding from the state budget for units of local self-government intended to complete the financing of projects of construction, construction, reconstruction of kindergartens. Also, funds for fiscal sustainability of kindergartens also come from the state budget. I think it's an important thing to say hello anyway. And here's another minute and some time, I'll just remind really that this law, in my personal opinion, is going towards a qualitative improvement in the early and preschool education system. I agree with my colleague, Glasovac, that the name of early and preschool education should be added. I will indeed agree there, but I will stress that the government, headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic from 2017 until today, has been taking care systematically of early and preschool education and education and from 2017 to today built, built, built, reconstructed 498 kindergartens in total throughout Croatia, invested 2 billion kuna, additionally secured 1.62 billion kuna. And that's something that I really think needs to be emphasized and another 1.62 billion for new kindergartens from this new envelope for the new 22,500 places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105506	Thank you, thank you. There will be more opportunities. We have several replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105507	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, you're a university professor, so you're a member of the academic community and you teach at the university as well as educators and class teachers, so a well-known program. You know probably the profile of people who have an interest in such callings and occupations, so tell me if it's so terrible what this possibility is now being criticized that teachers of classrooms with certain requalifications become teachers, or that they are allowed to work on the one hand, on the other hand, that children have quality care and education in preschool institutions, so either they are unemployed, and here that we either have no staff at all or that we are looking for other professions that are not this much or similar. She's not close. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105508	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105509	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Yes, I really teach at a class study, early and preschool education and I know the study programmes of one and the other profiles and I can say that there really is one significant number of colleges that are very, very similar, there is also a part of colleges that are specific to the field of early and preschool education and education. I don't know, like pedagogy, early and preschool education, early childhood curricula, family pedagogy, child pedagogy with special needs, methods that are specific to early and preschool education and, of course, professional practice. But there is, therefore, a lot of things that are very similar, part of things that are, part of colleges and content that are specific and I really don't see a problem with teachers jumping in at the moment when we have deficits because who else but a primary education teacher better access to children of early and preschool age [[Intruder: Thank you.]] gets. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105510	Time's up. The replica was now reported by Ms. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105511	Thank you, Vice President. When kindergartens are built and built, there is a challenge of financing activities especially for those units of local administration and self-government that are worse property conditions, which are more rural than others. This law provides for some measures that will certainly contribute to local administrations and self-government having no problem financing this activity. What do you think of these measures and what are they, once again?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105512	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105513	Thank you very much, very much for asking. This is what I explained, therefore, and I referred to Article 24, which stipulates that the funds for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens that we will build and other new ones whose units are local self-government, are meant to be secured in the state budget. So that's the support to our municipalities and cities by State intervention through I'll say it, I'll call it a subsidy, through financial contributions to the functioning and fiscal sustainability of kindergartens. I was talking about a pilot project, which means co-financing of children's kindergartens in municipalities and cities of the first to fourth category of development indexes with 500 kuna per child. It started during counterpart Murganic as minister, as a pilot project. I, as a minister, continued. The Secretary of State for Demography has also continued. It is necessary to extend the measure to all Croatia I think it's a good thing and an important intervention of the state. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105514	Thank you. The next replica, Mrs. Majda Buric, is a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105515	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Bedekovic, here you are coming from the system of education and education I have two questions for you. First of all, to once again highlight the essence of these amendments and the addition of this law. First of all, I mean an increase in the number of children in kindergartens and the obligation of cities or municipalities that currently do not have an organised early preschool education and education in which they will be able to organise it on their own or in agreement with another city or municipality. In addition, I would also ask you to further highlight the investments provided by the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic for preschool education from 2017 onwards. Namely, except for two billion kunas already spent Now we have another billion and six million kunas. [[/Invadica Vidovic: Done. Thank you.]] So please let me do that extra. [[Invader Vidovic: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105516	Time's up, but here's the answer for MP Bedekovic. All billions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105517	I'm gonna try to shorten it, a consciousness of some common denominator. It is very important, so first of all, to make the availability, affordability and evenness of kindergartens throughout Croatia. And that's what the government's intensities are and that's what the government does. So, so far built, built, reconstructed 498 kindergartens additionally and through, so this call and another 1.62 billion kuna. So that's what material bases and bases are all about. As far as financial sustainability is concerned, co-financing I responded through a replica to my colleague, Grba-Bujevic. So there's the government to secure through the state budget the additional funds that this law allows and the government will and the state will do it. And I have an example from my county where we built 11 children's kindergartens of Virovitica-Podravska County, that's 11 of these 498, where we went in a way to rationalize the funds, that for three municipalities we founded one public institution, one kindergarten to rationalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105518	Almost, time's up. How many more 19 counties are there! But now you have an opportunity to answer on the replica of counterpart Sanja Radolovic list the other counties. [[Attack Bedeković: But there is only one Virovitica-Poravska.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105519	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will not begin my replica with the words this government of Andrej Plenkovic has invested or has not invested. I'll ask you as a representative of the academic community. I believe that you are familiar with this, that just the representatives of the academic community from your study have submitted an open letter to the Prime Minister and the Assembly Committee as much as I have had the opportunity to notice exactly with the intention of improving this law. And you know yourself that petitioners are the biggest unions, five roof associations, petitions to amend this law, and there are over 25,000 signatures for improvement today. And I'm interested in this time just as a representative of this academic community, I think it's really terrible, that now class teachers say your colleagues are jumping into the tutorial position whether you're going to put politics aside this time and whether you're going to support opposition amendments that aren't political on Friday, and for 90% of them don't need funds in the state budget. the amendments are already exclusively focused on the voice of the profession. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105520	Thank you. Thank you. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105521	Thank you very much. I'll start from the beginning. So, I understand perfectly why you didn't want to start your replica with numerical indicators and financial resources that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic invested and invested in developing early and preschool education because you really have nothing to rely on and you don't really have a similar way of talking about your government's investments when she had the opportunity and when she could. When we're later on for coffee, I'm going to ask you, I'm going to ask you in front of everyone, and then you can answer me how many billion, how many kindergartens, how many jobs, and how many children you care for in early and preschool education and education during your government. That's part one answer. The second part of the response regarding the academic community and the profession, the academic community and the profession has been invited to work meetings at the Ministry of Science and education in order to agree exactly on solving these problems. [[Upadica Vidovic: I thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105522	Thank you. Before we continue our replicas, we have injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleagues. Here you go, Mrs. Radolovic. [[I thank the esteemed Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105523	Article 238 has been injured. Well, I'm sorry you didn't notice, but I'm going to remind you that the HDZ Government has, with one signing of the feather, abolished the curricula reform that has left 50,000 Croatian citizens on the streets and thus spit their children and all their parents, all the employees in the education and education system in the face, and I'm going to remind you that I'm talking now! [[Invader Bedeković: How much money, how many kindergartens and how many children you tell me.]] [[Invader Vidovic: Please!]] And I'll remind you that we have received the highest rating from the European Commission for this curricula reform and you have then reduced it to a political trade in HNS and the introduction of tablets into schools. [[Invader Vidovic: Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105524	My colleague Radolović! The warning is big as the house and because of the weather, but also because you can't tell someone that he hurt the Rules of Procedure which he didn't say, what you thought you should say, so I'm showing you a warning. But a fellow colleague, Zeljko Pavić, also reported his injury to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105525	Dear MPs, just to remind you, there couldn't have been any investment because they had to repay the debts made by the government of Eve Sanader. You forgot that. First the debts come back, then he invests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105526	Thank you very much. You're completely improperly misusing your colleague's injury to the Rules of Procedure, and you don't mention the article, and then you replicate the reminder to you, but that's why your colleague Sabina Glasovac will point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105527	A colleague hurt her ankle. 238. in the paragraph, the demeaning of the representative. I must personally warn in this assembly that we cannot be made crazy by agents because these kindergartens that are now built from EU funds are built on an operational programme designed by our government, this ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture, okay, and every bird on the branch knows it today. So I can't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105528	Thank you. And you know that this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, making someone crazy or feeling that way is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and so is your colleague's warning. And Majda Buric has a breach of his rules of procedure. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105529	Thank you, Vice President. I'm calling in an article. In 238, and teaching what your colleague Glasovac said about what birds on the branch know, so I remind you that birds on the branch should also know that your SDP government, in which you were a member, has torn down the salaries of professors, teachers and other employees in state and public services and that the base grew by 0% and that you are coefficients They crashed, so the wages fell. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105530	My colleague, it wasn't a violation of the rules of procedure, so also my colleague Majdi Buric. And now we have a replica of a colleague named Sabine Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105531	Now to remember what the replica was. I'm going to know what it is, so the Republic of Croatia invests 0.60% of GDP in preschool education and education of which 1% invests in the state, the other 99% invests in local self-government units. This is disproportionate and this construction of kindergartens that have been built so far and will be built by these new 22,000 places means we won't have any of it unless we provide local self-government units with funds to pay their employees, secure the standard and pay their bills, material costs see how energy grows, so that's what I was going to say. And what about functional merger? You promised money for a functional merger. Money for functional merger [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] But you didn't bring any criteria that could be rounded up if I couldn't do it alone in public... [[Upadica Vidovic: Timeout of colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105532	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105533	Thank you very much. I'm about a minute away from answering everything that she's listed. Well, let me put it this way, the fact is that the government of Andrej Plenkovic built, built, built, adapted 498 kindergartens, and by the end of the period that we were talking about was going to invest another billion 620 million kuna, whether someone liked it or not. I understand the opposition, I understand it is your job, if you had something to talk about and if you had the facts, if you had the numbers, if you had 500 kindergartens built by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, you would have listed them today and you would have told Croatian citizens, the SDP government did that, that, that and that. You don't have and I understand your tone. I understand your tone. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] The HDZ government has something to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105534	We have everything to talk about, thank you very much, the time for discussion is up. And now, a co-worker named Dalia Oreshkovic has appeared to discuss the debate individually for five minutes. Individual debate, I said on behalf of the club I'm sorry. I'm new here, so then I have a little right to make mistakes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105535	I got you all wrong, all right. Representatives and MPs. Introductoryly, I will refer briefly to the presentation of the Club of Representatives of the Sovereigns because this is the simplest way to explain the difference between those policies that Croatia can provide for development and prosperity and those regressive policies that keep us locked up in poor living standards, in reducing education and in continuing the trend of emigration. So, the representative of the Sovereignist said that demographics are the cancer of Croatian society. Well, no, the cancer of Croatian society's wounds is HDZ and various Zekanovics and other tokens, the cancer of Croatian society's wounds is corruption. Scientific research of professor for Croatian Catholic University Dr. Thade Juric confirms it, and the second reason for emigration is a poorly arranged, poorly designed, dysfunctional and unfair state. A representative from the Suverenist Club accused the new policies of new measures in Zagreb, but also in other cities of cynicism and Phariseeism, so I suggest that the Pharisees and cynics first look at HDZ and then in their own ranks. And here's what cynicism and Phariseeism is manifested in, so this same representative from the Sovereign Club says that in passive areas from which he comes he has done a lot for a demographic restoration based on the politics of three and more children and advocates that this model is established at the level of the entire Croatia, and this model is successful and encouraging if mothers are paid for the status of raiser. In fact, mothers’ children do not go to kindergartens, mothers with more children on this basis earn more income than kindergarten teachers, and even from teachers to schools, and these women, they are often women long and tiringly educated to have qualifications for this kind of thing at all. Then, the same representative from the Sovereignist Club as if he did not see any contradiction in his own words, suggests that the main problem of this law that we are discussing today is that in some way, the profession that has been degraded by amendments and additions to the Law is opposed. Suddenly, the sovereign problem is that we did not provide enough professional training for those who work in kindergartens, and it is no longer a problem that there are not enough kindergartens at all and again in its rhetoric attacks those who would do new kindergartens, for example, in the city of Zagreb. I support the proposals and amendments and every other word of the profession, and I support the direction that a new power has taken in Zagreb when it decided to abolish the measure of the fostering mother to ensure the funds for the construction of new accommodation facilities and the construction of new kindergartens, and if this measure was implemented, I hope and believe that they will be corrected, but that the direction will remain the same. I advocate a society of equal opportunities, and it starts in kindergartens, and we need to provide every child with a place in kindergarten and as high-quality preschool programs as possible for preschool education and for doing this job properly and paid. I advocate a society that is aware of faster progress when women engage in the labour market and do not encourage them to stay indoors in their four walls. Demographic measures such as Croatia should be the creation of a well-organised and well-organised society in which those who are in pro-creative and creative years will want to stay here and here will be able to achieve their potential. Given that in my presentation, I called for the conclusions of demographics Tad Juric, corruption is the main reason for emigration. I have submitted several amendments to this law that correct corruption at my sources. I know from practice that the procedure for the appointment of board members and children's kindergarten directors who are owned by the state, cities and municipalities is often corruptly assisted. Nepotism, clientelism, party entanglement, here are the most common, and also our citizens' most visible, closest, and hit them where something is vital to them. There is already a problem at the decision-making level about whether to enroll the child in kindergarten or not. The proposed amendments shall repeal any selection of directors or members of the Board of Directors to whom the founder of the State, city or municipality is established if the appointment is determined to result from a situation where there was a conflict of interest, so please support such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105536	Thank you, too. My apologies, my colleague Josip Boric has now come to the hearing, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105537	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's something I want to say about this final bill of amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act. Here, let these important ones come out so we can finally say something. I think we've gone a little wrong, and neither teachers nor class teachers deserve such a debate, nor anyone to bring them into direct conflict because they belong to me, space, space of education, and if they wanted to bring it to absurdity, it could all be very easy to kill. Whoever's professional and trained at age 6, and who's unprofessional or untrained at age 7, or at the beginning of seven, so let's not do that, these people do valuable work and who's in that system knows what the difference is. We got a chance today to talk about a system that's not a common topic. We've seen, these are our fourth amendments to this '97 Act. Mr. and what does he offer? I think he's offering in a better way than we've had before. Of course someone in the system has noticed certain shortcomings, which we can't say, we can't say that the system doesn't work, but now in a similar way, but let's improve it. And that's it, we don't have anything else to discuss anymore. If something is exclusive to the jurisdiction of local self-government, it is preschool education and communal activities. If we can't satisfy it in the smallest community or in the middle and bigger city, then we can't do anything. And now we're here to discuss how that one government didn't provide pay, didn't provide funds for material rights, didn't provide funds now or for costs of material, etc. Well, I guess we understand certain differences. And I ask everyone who knew everything as a colleague of the Voice when she was assistant minister, why she didn't,... He won't say, you know why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it was a time when all those teachers, the teachers, who they were invited to every day, had a weekly pilgrimage with protests outside the ministry where she was the boss, and why? Because they were dissatisfied with the devastation of the material rights she had exercised, material, as well as the devastation of the wages that had taken place. And that was the only policy, and that's why it's funny to hear it, fellow Voter, and your strong objections to something that you haven't responded to in what way, then it's best to get a little pregnant and say a little bit I'll still think about what I'm saying because if I'm saying, not to brag, what do we have to boast about making 500 kindergartens and doing another 500, what do we get? Let's go to the other side, the local self-government agrees to one burden that will have to bear in the future, not building kindergartens we built a building and we solved everything, the state gave 85, 75 or already how much value and after that everything goes ideally, it won't be. We have what every leader needs to assess because he has a salary, he has material costs, and he has everything on preschool education. The government's good will to help, to find a way to help, if that's what we have to say, is the good ones who can do it, if we want to agree. If we don't need those kindergartens, then we go back to that former state. We know what kind of system he was in preschool at the time. In major cities there was something, in small, small areas you had preschool education maybe a year, two days at school in some classroom, she was also, some raiser, and that way we went through the system of small schools into the first class and it all worked out, everyone was happy and satisfied. Today, when real large funds are allocated, ask every local self-government, these are not insignificant funds, I know by my city that has 44 employees, there are more employees than in the city, anywhere. So there's the people we need. Their wages are the story we have to think about, they're unhappy with their salaries. There were times when they were satisfied with others, and there was a time apparently coming days when it became a problem. And they have the right to ask for these salaries, but on every local self-government to make a maximum of good, not to let Zagreb happen to us, which says we cancel one measure, it's no good, "parent parent" so we'll give you a substitution, we'll do as many as they say, 20 new kindergartens. In the first year, there's nothing, we'll see what happens at 4:00, see if it's 20, whether it's one or two, so we even made the substitution, and our kids stayed home. So these are the responsibilities of local self-government and every attempt to bind to the government what isn't its own is its fault. Here's help, we don't say that, there's a legal framework here, let's identify with it and let's implement it in practice, and we'll see what he creates. And let us not put teachers and teachers in the same conflict because each other is neither conflict nor competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105538	Dear fellow time has passed long ago, I thought you were a little careful, but here you are. We now have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105539	Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Boric, injured Article 238, undermining me, and mentioning me in his replica, or putting something in my mouth that I never said. At no point did I say that Croatia does not need new buildings and new kindergartens. I merely questioned the sustainability and sustainability of these buildings and the fact that you yourself said that units of local self-government 70% of what they single out for kindergartens are pay-out, and if they're left with 30% for some material, security other costs And by all means, it's unsustainable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105540	Thank you, colleague, I would not judge this by the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but by giving an opinion that you do not have to agree with, so... And I have to warn you about this intervention, and my colleague Katarina Peović called. [[So am I.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105541	Thank you. It is certainly not a conflict between teachers and educators, nor does anyone on this side encourage it. In fact, it should indeed be the social Darwinism that you promote, both teachers and educators, that should be united against the policies that you lead. And what is proof that you run a social Darwinist policy is your own law in which literally the depopulation is taken as a positive argument in explaining this law. So the drop in the number of children is taken as evidence that it will reduce the challenge of achieving 100% preschool enrollment. It's your law. You boast that people have moved out, that there are no more children, and then you will reach those standards that we either impose on ourselves or they have imposed on us. imposed from the outside. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105542	Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105543	Thank you very much. My colleague Peovic may say that there is no conflict, but he is visible to me both in the media space and today's debate where he tries to confront the two let's say the professions in a way that each other are competition and that it is not right for one part of the profession to enter the space of the other. I've seen it that way. Now it's natural to say who they are in case we don't have what we want. I don't mean to say there won't be, but I don't see this kid's kindergarten director who's going to choose a teacher or a teacher in the competition, and now you're going to work, you're not. In the absence of frames like we have and in the elementary school in the classroom where we have to cover certain items with people who are not the most professional in the part we have to cover, but we have to because classes go, the program goes and we need to find a replacement to do so, if that's the conflict you insist on working on, I say something else. The local self-government must find a way to solve what this box provides. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105544	Thank you, thank you. Next replica of counterpart Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105545	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow, a few months ago, we had a debate here about the social care package and we talked about the lack of personnel in that system, any social workers, educators, psychologists, defectologists, logos, and no one thought of actually making up for the lack of staff with trained lawyers who would be able to do the jobs of social workers in welfare centres although their jobs unfortunately do not make a difference. Just for the sake of the professional public and purely due to the hereafter of our next action to explain whether we can expect such famous solutions and other resolutions, just to be prepared because we actually have the degradation of the educator and the conflict of two professions, which is actually the responsibility of this proposal, or the promoter. And at least means professional staff and at least are responsible...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105546	Thank you, colleague. If you'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105547	I will, here's a colleague for you if, in the social care system, we don't have everything you say, social welfare shouldn't be, if we agree, so it shouldn't be at all. We won't find any substitute or opportunity to provide it, but it shouldn't be. And then it's politics and we'll give it to the citizens. If we have the possibility of having a breeding group and working with it someone who is an expert raiser, someone chooses him and he is, but if we don't have a smaller place in the rural community, in a small town, we have the opportunity to compensate for it, a teacher, a teacher, why don't we give him a chance. What's so different? That's why I said we can lead to absurdity who's an expert at the end of six years before entering school and at the beginning of primary school at the beginning of 7 years. In those days, for two days he's been working in the lives of children so much difference that that waist is irreparable or we can say really if we have the conditions proposed by this law we can make up for in case we don't have what they're looking for. If that's the problem for you I don't see the problem, for me the system is what you need be a problem and how it should be solved that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105548	My colleague Majda Buric has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105549	Thank you, Vice President. I will repeat my respected colleague, Boric, that we are witnessing the biggest investments in the early preschool and education system ever, and that this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is responsible for this. I also think it is important to say that out of the already invested 2 billion kunas since 2017, 500 kindergartens have been built and restored, that 100 of these 500 kindergartens are located right in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria County, namely 48 in the Istrian area and 46 kindergartens in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area. Why would I bring that up? Because I think this is the information that speaks enough about the involvement of municipalities and cities in the area of these two counties. And my question to you is, in fact, the material rights and the wages you mentioned yourself in general, the salaries in the state. and the public service that grew by 32% and 1,800 kuna at the time of this government. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105550	Thank you. You have a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105551	Thank you very much, dear colleague Buric. Look, so we all here in the assembly can talk this out, but I know what local leaders are doing, they're standing in line, and I think many of us have already signed up for a public call two days ago, and they're going to watch very daily when the results come out where I am and where I am because I want to handle it. Conscious of everything that carries the construction of a building as can be called or built on existing construction of a new building, etc. Conscious of every leader. He wasn't chosen there not to worry and to miss what they're calling for means not to answer so we don't run a policy here who is who or isn't, it's a problem for us here in the state. Down there we need places and those who are ready to build, if they behave like the city of Zagreb to know everything in theory, and in practice there is nothing here will be 10,000 children without their right to have organized institutional preschool education and they'll say [[Upadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] So let's move on... [[Invadica Vidovic: Time is up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105552	Time's up, fellow Boric. You have the next replica of my colleague Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105553	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you said what all one municipality should ensure for the functioning of a kindergarten. You have experience as head of kindergarten, you have experience as head of the municipality, and then you certainly know how scared you are with the principal of kindergartens and in the chiefs about the announced increase in energy prices. Do you think we should reconsider the possibility that kindergartens do not pay the price of electricity at the tariff of entrepreneurship as we do in the fire department? In fact, the public fire departments do not pay that higher tariff than the lower one that is suitable for households.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105554	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105555	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I wish we could do that that would mean that the city as the founder also has a special tariff to negotiate electricity prices, but I don't think they're going to contract it that way, but you're going to call the competition and you're going to get what's best of those who offer what they can. And then, of course, there's the cost of material spending and every kindergarten. I know it's safe today at this time when we're fighting the most with the story or the politics of the Energents what interests us all how it's going to develop? I'm saying, I don't think anyone who gets into that story today has to be aware that it's now a completely different story than what we had maybe a few months ago, but they're not insecure situations. And what is a fundamental obligation of local self-government is pre-school education, a complete system and its maintenance as well as the municipal system, its development and its maintenance and that local self-government are or are not at the level and citizens evaluate it. And I think every leader will Get into this story too with that kind of knowledge. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105556	Thank you. Next is counterpart Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105557	Dear fellow Boric. The very fact that we are discussing today that teachers are allowed to engage in kindergartens shows what has happened over the past few years with this direction of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which the local self-government units have accepted and that is the fact in the number of newly built kindergartens and lack of staff. So, we who went into that system built three, four, and five kindergartens met the needs of all the children we're facing this problem and what we're talking about today is a good and useful tool and I don't see any reason why anyone should have anything to do with it. So, what has been done over the past few years and the direction that units of local self-government are going in, especially in the part that few people have mentioned here, and it refers to the economic price of kindergartens, so in that part, it also encourages demographically that units give their local self-governments I think it's a significant step towards citizens as far as we're concerned. [[Upadica Vidovic: Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105558	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105559	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I think you as a local leader know very well what kindergartens and those few you built and the whole problem you have with the whole system. It's your system, no one interferes with it on the side too much except for a possible educational inspection that comes to determine certain possible irregularities or determine that everything is fine more or less. And now we come to this story that someone here is serving us let's confront you and teachers against breeders because we're on a different job. This job is equal to, let's keep sending it so called 6th year, 7th until the end of school, and we all have our part in it. Putting in a relationship that every director will now, by law, choose a teacher instead of a raiser, I don't want to believe it, nor will it be, nor should it be. I think everyone should do what his job is. And yet the mayor, the chief has his powers, he's got the council, he's got those people who need to be responsible for what's going on, and I think that system's pretty much progressed in the last ten years when we look at the reports that they're doing. what they're doing, etc. compared to what we used to have. .../Speakers speak at the same time... of what local self-government can. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105560	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105561	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. On this subject, I will only open two things in an individual discussion. One thing is the parent-teacher theme in the City of Zagreb, and the other is the topic of sustainable development that we can also see on the topic of kindergarten. Sustainable development is something that was worn in the Croats and that we forgot. What does sustainable development mean when we talk about kindergartens or when we talk about preschool education? It means to secure the kindergarten, to ensure the possibility of children going to that kindergarten. Hence, parents have those who cannot subsidize and ensure who will work in kindergarten. And we know that all units of local self-government can't do it properly, not in the same way. They have those who can do it, they have those who can't do it. I'm going to go even one step further and say imagine you do and that the state decides, builds a kindergarten for one unit of local self-government whose fiscal ability is not even to maintain that kindergarten, nor to pay for all those directors that need to be paid, and I'm not going to talk about whether or not there is, whether or not they can hire someone, pay someone to work there. It's called sustainable development and it's called sustainable development when it comes to preschool age and it's called something where we expect the role of the state. All units of local self-government are not the same, all units of local self-government cannot do the same, and the role of the state is that for their territory the beautiful one who is the same as the conditions, so that children have equal conditions no matter where they live, or can't all parents know the same thing. And that's something to think about, something to take care of and something when you're drilling into a hero's chest and when you're talking about a NPO, then that's something to keep in mind. Of course, not some unit of local self-government from its budget can spend unintendedly, or the funds here do not have. But those who are chiefs, the mayors know very well what I'm talking about. And I'm going to use these remaining half of the debate to measure the parent, the raiser. The parent measure is a measure supported by a HDZ colleague along with Mr Bandic and his party in the city of Zagreb, a measure that took effect in 2016. The condition that we could be to that extent was that the child should not go to kindergarten. That was the first condition. So here we are talking about the need for children to go to kindergarten, about the need to and we had the measure that the coalition partner HDZ together with Mr Bandic supported where the first condition was that the child should not go to kindergarten. Someone explain to me the importance and quality of this measure, and let me put it clear from this pay phone the following. Since 2016, therefore, Mr. Bandic, the late mayor introduced the measure at the time he wanted to be mayor of all, all of Croatia. Since 2016, two budgets, the annual budget of the city of Rijeka or the two annual budgets of the city of Split have been spent on this scale. So, this measure to date has been spent on it a little less than two billion kunas. About the rough annual budget of Rijeka is a billion and so much from Split, so two annual budgets and the measure uses a little more than 5,000 families. So explain to me the importance of the parent measure, the educator. So she wasn't a social measure, she wasn't a social category. She sold out and today she's being explained as a demographic measure. Imagine if it was a good measure, I have no doubt HDZ would have introduced it at the state level. Well, there's no state that can take that measure the way it is. So today, those who speak from this speaker about this measure and rely on the breast of a hero about how successful or anything, let's see the real results of this measure and what was and there should have been a reaction much sooner and much more, in time and say that this measure is really something that should not be repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105562	Thank you. You have colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, two replicas. My colleague Željko Pavić is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105563	I thank the chairman. Comrade Taritash, you said we should ensure who works in kindergartens. Here, the ruling one is trying to turn the saw upside down, and it's being portrayed as saviors, because it's now going to allow teachers to work in kindergartens. And they forgot that they had an excellent mechanism, which is a policy of enrollment quotas to enroll more educators and fewer teachers in recent years. If they were... a picture and there would be no need for a teacher to work in kindergartens, and raisers to schools or vice versa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'Cause this whole thing just got weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105564	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105565	Comrade Pavić, often a man feels like in that joke, please don't save me. Let's not save me, but let me do my job normally, to move on. You know some things happen in life, but some things in life you can see exactly what's going to happen and how it's going to be. When it comes to the word, we know exactly how much of a child can be expected with natural negative growth. We also know exactly how many kindergarten kids we have. We know exactly by some standards how many children we want to have a raiser on, and we know exactly how many breeders should now be enrolled this year, so next school year so that they can work in five years. Hello! Math, we know, and then we happen to type in something we don't need, and something we need, but this is the topic of the same ministry. Well, they're not even the subject of different ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105566	Thank you. Comrade Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105567	Thank you very much, colleague Dark. You said that bad mayor no longer had him, because he took the measure and paid for the sixteenth, seventeenth to 2032. That's right, if I understood correctly. Then a good mayor came and tried not to pay, but he'll have to pay until the court says otherwise. Now, you said that measure wasn't good because the kids didn't go to kindergarten. They're not allowed into kindergarten. Can you promise that all the children who have lost such a measure will be in kindergarten next year, that you will stand as a politician behind it and say that everyone who is damaged with one such measure that we have abolished, we will take care of them in every possible kindergarten in every possible way and they will go to that kindergarten, none will remain outside. Will you say that as a responsible politician behind his word and for these authorities in Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105568	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105569	Comrade Boric, exactly what you did and the way you set up the replica means saw upside down. So I absolutely said, this measure that could at all be a beneficiary of this measure was two conditions, one condition that the child had to be released from kindergarten, another condition, that the one who was the parent of the raiser, which was basically a woman, and not a partner or husband, should not work. It was a condition for measure, and I said that measure costs from 2016 to now,.../incomprehensible/... a little less, now another 2 months and we'll get to 2 billion kuna. So 2 budgets of the city of Rijeka, annual budget and the city of Split. And I asked who could justify the measure that costs so much? So why didn't the other mayors and mayors introduce that measure? So when they saw that she was economically unwarranted. But, but, then, let me say it to the end. About that...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105570	Thank you. Unfortunately, you won't be able to because the time is up. Thank you. Here, now we have an individual discussion of colleague Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105571	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. About the inequality and unequal availability of kindergartens to their children in the Republic, except that we spend all day discussing and having insight into the data, daily we actually witness this fact in our environment. We all know in our neighborhood parents who didn't get a place in kindergarten and actually feel like second-class citizens because every child should be entitled to kindergarten. We are witnessing that despite the construction of new kindergartens from rural development programmes or other sources of funding, there is very often not enough room for all children to enter kindergartens in the same kindergartens. The waiting lists are long, but they are long. So an interested parent can wait for years, can pass the whole early childhood until preschool, and he has failed to get his place. Here is a concrete example in the town of Požega where the waiting lists for enrolment in the city kindergarten have been for over 150 to 200 children for years. We are talking about the readiness of a local environment to finance better conditions for children and employees, and very often the priorities of local leaders speak differently. We already have a third mayor in Požega begging for the patience of his parents, and years pass. We have had the construction of an assembly kindergarten in Požega, a promise that it can be upgraded if necessary, but after 5 years we still have statements that it is not possible to upgrade this same kindergarten and that it is planned to build a new one at the site of the former kindergarten which the location has previously declared inappropriate. As the solution and spins around in fact in a circle, the flat-rate solutions are offered, and the years pass. Part of this is a broader problem and the sensitization of local leaders for the needs of children. Although the intensity that every child has an equal right to attend kindergarten, regardless of socio-economic characteristics, unfortunately this is not available now regardless of their availability, so the criteria introduced, which are related to vulnerable groups, will in some ways enable the entry of children from vulnerable groups into kindergarten. For example, so far, there were no users guaranteed minimum fees at all to compete in the competition because they were unemployed, and parents who were employed had the advantage. So your parents were double-discriminatory, except I can't find a job, I can't even look for it because they don't have a place in the city kindergarten, and it's almost twice as expensive in private and of course it's not available to them. The child who attends kindergarten achieves better results in later education, the possibility of developing behavioral problems is smaller, i.e. early recognition of development needs, which affects early detection and the possibility of intervention, as well as in general, contributes to better involvement of children in the community, creates working habits and structures are actually a day off. All of this is common knowledge, and every parent wants their child’s best opportunities for growth and development. These legal amendments stipulate that, in accordance with the needs of children with developmental difficulties, a third educator or one assistant for children with developmental difficulties or a professional communication mediator may also work. This is not in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and according to which children with developmental difficulties must also be allowed to go to kindergarten. It should be pointed out that the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children with developmental difficulties should have a full and decent life in conditions that guarantee dignity and strengthen child's rely on their own strength and facilitate its participation in the community, while at the same time the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities actually stresses that there can be no actual discrimination based on disability. Given that the prerequisite for successful integration of children with developmental difficulties in preschool programmes is by providing the necessary conditions and support, I am of the opinion that providing support for assistants is necessary in order to achieve the necessary quality of work with children with difficulties, but also, consequently, the necessary quality of work for all other children involved in the same educational group.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105572	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Katarina Peovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105573	Thank you. Here, colleague, to inform you, we have just received a call for tomorrow's session of the Labour Committee where we will have the opportunity to discuss the new Minister of Labour, Marina Piletić, so I will connect these two topics and maybe we will ask him tomorrow. Not only does depopulation think solve this problem of kindergarten places, insufficient, but the thoughts of transferring social services mainly to female workers who will now be allowed to work on a new Labour or Change and Supplements to work from home for half a salary, and are almost available for 24 hours to their employer. Transferring services, these concerns mean for children and the elderly means it is in some way embedded in this law because it is expected to fill many more children with the same capacities and to achieve that means the declared goal of increasing 95% preschool children. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105574	Thank you. Your colleague has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105575	Yes, in any case, there is an existing coma that is insufficient in kindergartens as well as urban ones, and I'm not talking about private kindergartens where there are actually groups and up to a dozen more no children than prescribed by the rules. And it's all something that actually reduces the quality of work and burdens those breeders, workers, professional and unprofessional when it means everyone has to get involved in some way because actually kindergartens are under a lot of pressure from parents who are in need which reduces the quality of work. But actually we need to think long-term about actually the overall state of the breeder and the long-term psychophysical abilities of the breeder because such pressures are often affecting their psychophysical health, going to sick, difficulties with their health And here... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105576	The next replica of Anka's colleague, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105577	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues actually intrigued me about that sentence of yours somewhere at the very beginning when you said it was an assembly kindergarten and that it was said that it could be upgraded, and that now it turned out not to be. So if we don't know something then it's always good to rewrite. What are the Scandinavian countries doing? They do installation facilities and when it comes to kindergartens that can be upgraded, even work options to make part of kindergartens and primary education, they go a little differently than they have for the simple reason that they are not rich enough to give a lot of money for construction, but that these constructions must be flexible and flexible especially in cities. You have a village in which you know exactly at one hour you need a great capacity for kindergarten, so then you need a great capacity for school, and then you have to come second generation for kindergarten, and in kindergarten there's something less. So I'm really surprised and I don't understand that it's an assembly facility that can't be upgraded and upgraded. It's his purpose and his purpose. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105578	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105579	Thank you. Exactly, it was a generally acceptable response when it was actually in the community when it came to the construction of an assembly kindergarten that today, if there is a need for such an assembly kindergarten to be upgraded. It was an acceptable response then for both the local environment and the public and the profession, and for all of it it was let's say such an acceptable answer. However, for which reasons it has actually given up, is it true that it is because it really is a prefabricated kindergarten and I think that there can be even more room for the work of the breeders to provide and expand the kindergarten and that it is a much more acceptable and cheaper option than let's say that the construction of new facilities now will be again in the space that they then said is no longer conditional, appropriate, and that this new space is much wider, more acceptable and better adapted to the needs of children. So here in any case it's actually about vague answers, vague plans. And like I said... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105580	But the time is clear, thank you very much. Following the debate, counterpart Eric Fabianic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105581	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, what I would like to talk about because this is still a second reading, I will first of all look back at my debate on the first two articles of these amendments and additions. In particular, in Article 2, Article 2 is deleted, point 9 of the existing law, which is therefore set out in Article 6, is deleted, i.e. the provision which abolishes preschools. A provision thus abolishing in the pedagogical standard a whole chapter, which is Articles 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the pedagogical standard relating to preschool education and education. That shows two things. Either we don't have anyone to spend preschool or we don't have the need for preschool because the way he goes on, the way he is further regulated is quite questionable what kind of preschool we're going to have. From what I have experience in life, I will also look back on that article, which is the amendment of Article 14 that is, the next article of amendments and additions to the laws of the county. In the current law, we have had an item in which the representative body of the county, based on the plans set out in paragraph 1 of this article, harmonizes the development of a network of kindergartens in its area. The city of Zagreb is also happy because the town of Zagreb is the founder of kindergartens, and the county has absolutely nothing to do with kindergartens. But two more paragraphs are now added, and it says that the representative body of the county and the City of Zagreb is harmonised in the network referred to in paragraph 2 of this article to the education ministry. I ask you how one representative body, and I was 16 years in the representative body of the county, will determine how it will coordinate the network of kindergartens in its administrative area. And then a member of the county assembly can write an amendment to that. The amendment may also be accepted, and this may not be the desire of local self-government because within their administrative area they think they build some kindergarten in the west, and a member of the County Assembly would eventually do so in the east. I think it was already prescribed as synchronising, and now this coordination is being determined and sent to Minister Fuchs for consideration and adoption because he brings a network of kindergartens, he brings a network of kindergartens. Question how do you do it? We are what we are in my area already Catholics of the Pope I once placed that point of the agenda on, as the president of the County Assembly can tell you that we, the debate was very fun and by the opposition of both HDZ and by the ruling. We didn't know what to do with it. The year is completely irrelevant, I really don't remember who the Prime Minister was, absolutely irrelevant, but here we are talking about the principled part of the enforceability of certain legal regulations. What does it mean to synchronise the network? Someone has to explain it to me today, and it's not clear to me, and I'm saying, and I've had a debate about it, and I've had a debate about it. We've been pulling some analogies with primary schools that are mandatory, it really doesn't, it doesn't, I mean especially since the school offices from the state administration crossed the county I don't know what to burden for that representative body. Well, it could be government-counsel communication like that. This is pointless to put on the agenda of this county assembly, believe me 16 years of experience. This law really deserves a third, third reading. Now, here comes the best joke, and that's the part about the merits of Plenkovic's government or anyone's government. In fact, every time a decision on the non-taxable part is made, the untaxable part of the salary is the government's decision. wages are paid to all citizens, but you know who suffers, cities and municipalities that need to be financed by kindergartens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105582	Thank you, colleague. Time's up, I'm afraid. The following debate came from counterpart Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105583	Good afternoon. We will give a few amendments that will be more or less related to labour issues. We find this law primarily interesting to read from the aspect of labour law and working conditions means in kindergartens. Employment security is a fundamental thing that would provide educators, educators with normal work that is not normal right now, we've heard about how much reality is in the process with the state pedagogical standard, but it would also provide what is called a favor, which is actually a need. Children need to go to kindergartens and be socialized. It's not that children in kindergartens have to go just to get their parents to work, but it's also about being there and socialized, so the last year means kindergarten is mandatory. And it's one of the amendments that we're going to submit as the Workers' Front, which is that if it means the last year is mandatory, and it's mandatory since 2014, mandatory preschool then it has to be free. It must be free for parents not only to be free of charge, it must be free of charge for parents and that amount must be financed from the budget. You should say, there will always be a question of good, but where the money comes from, and here is the fake dichotomy, and mostly HDZ's deputies are asking a fake dichotomy often, where the money comes from, so you can then give the answer here often and give that answer to people, so I think here's the unionist at the protest yesterday or yesterday, the protests are really piling up what day after day on Mark's square, assistants for children with developmental difficulties said so do you know that your activity means helper in teaching the state costs half of Rafael. So all assistants and assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties cost half a Rafael that's the truth, and of course you can always say well, so we should re-apply the funds. We have too much funds for the military over 2.7% of GDP, when we were entering NATO, they said that 3% of GDP would cost its own defence, and today we see that NATO's defence doesn't work very well, so it might be better if we had our own, but those 3% were overrated, too, but it was so scary for Croatia that we had to join NATO, but that means it would be an answer and it might be relevant. Okay, so we should take out the detachment for the defense, from the separation for the church means a billion kuna church gets, we don't know at all how much it gets from local, local government units and self-government, these are total assets that are non-transparent, we can't locate how much the church actually gets, but we know that we're one of the few states that really, through these Vatican contracts, separates huge funds for the church, but I'm going to hold on to maybe that's not the right answer to this question from where the money comes from. Yes, we always say it can be redeployed, but there is another answer, a slightly more complex answer, and therefore I have to admit these discussions between the SDP and the HDZ are a little bit more tiring, who is guilty, who is more isolated, whether these are more or more, I think who was giving and whether in Zagreb I don't know We can't let the voters down. It's a little bit of that, these discussions are redundancy in one way because actually what they never address is ours, our conscious choice of all governments so far, and that's that race to the bottom. So our governments have decided to play that cheap labour card, meaning to achieve competitiveness through cheap labour, and that's in this law as in all other laws. And that's why we have this situation to have a standard, that standard is partly just imposed, partly imposed on the outside means 90% should be reached by preschool children from 4 to school to enter that program, to socialize means through kindergarten programs. We can't reach that standard and then HDZ remembers to come up with this socio-darwine game means that those who are teachers can work in preschool. But people who went to school for a teacher don't want to work in preschool, but it's the same mechanism that's being forced everywhere that workers are forced to do work that they don't want to do, and then we solve it under quotes. We're not. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] solved by someone smart, different [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to economic policies. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105584	You have one replica, colleague Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105585	Thank you. My colleague Peovic about this last moment of what you said about it, about this substitution solution who should change the frame that currently does not exist. When the state pedagogical standard was passed he had delayed application to some of these items. Do you think that perhaps a good solution or compromise would be in some of the laws now propose that it would only be worth 5 years, in the meantime to increase the registration quotas at the relevant colleges so that in 5 years, they would have a new frame and then that this item would cease to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105586	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105587	Well not only that, so we should determine which are ours, we should first of all have these analyses in the economy, meaning economic analysis of the multiplier factors, meaning economic operators that are also industrial branches, which are able to produce that higher added value, to bind to ourselves other industries, to develop these industries, and then, of course, to coordinate quotas with those in colleges. But it doesn't just mean that it won't happen, that there isn't some real, real scan that we need and then economic development according to that, but constantly HDZ to us, and it's going to come from law to law to laws that actually transfer responsibility to another. Here, a specific transfer means responsibility for a teacher who will become a teacher, the Labour Act will transfer the responsibility of the so-called “teacher. ” by working from home to mothers who will take over these social standards and social institutes which are, which the state fully disowns and then will work part-time, but at the same time will cover; and social needs that the state no longer meets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105588	Thank you, colleague Peovic. Following the debate, counterpart Zeljko Pavić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105589	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear secretary and associate, nice greeting and to all those who are here, here are the tenacious ones in this debate. He would only draw attention to some of the things that our MPs have tried from ruling the majority here to push some of the attitudes that don't actually stand. I have already said in the replica that this measure to allow teachers or teachers to work in kindergartens is actually because the government has made a major failure in enrollment quotas in recent years. You've had 7 hours, 7 years to change the number of students in the university for teachers and teachers compared to the number of graduate students. And if that number had changed today, the raisers would have worked where they were, for what they were trained, and teachers and teachers in schools where they belong. Someone here mentioned that this is a demographic measure. We heard yesterday that the demographic measure would be good and quality must be long-term and sustainable. It is said here in this law in Article 2(2) that in the state budget it will be Article 50a. In fact, Article 24a refers to Article 54a, says that the state budget will provide funding for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of which is a unit of local and regional self-government on the basis of the criteria and criteria laid down in the Regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And after that, it is said that, immediately with the association of the article, the decision to grant the funds will actually be made for each year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What's a little strange here, which is the secretary's view that the price of kindergartens at Croatia level cannot be prescribed. I would ask you to answer me what is different in the composition of the price of kindergartens in Zagreb compared to, say, kindergarten in a small municipality in Zagorje Jesenje or, say, Lobor. The price of electricity in Zagreb and above is the same, the price of gas is the same, kindergartens are built as they were built from the funds from which they were built, therefore the price of food is the same and where it saves, is actually saved on employees' salaries. And before that, you said it was a demographic measure. So employees in smaller towns, smaller municipalities have small salaries, how you will attract them to smaller places if they will not have the same salaries as, at least as they have in Zagreb or in larger urban areas. I do not believe that you are not aware that in fact they appreciate what I just listed in Zagorje and Zagreb and that they are actually constantly saving on it, on our breeders because simply municipalities do not have the money to pay them more. And you are not ready for our raisers at Croatia level to have the same salaries as in primary and secondary schools where they receive salaries from one budget and after that they are all equal. You don't want to accept that. Furthermore, I do not understand how you intend to attract breeders to rural areas, which measures you have proposed to attract to solve this problem. Have you considered the option for the state to scholarship future educators to work in specific units of local self-government together with local self-government units, so that targeted students prepare for work in a particular unit of local self-government. It's not there. I still don't understand again why a raiser who takes care of 20 and 22 children in Zagreb and a guardian who takes care of 22 children in a small municipality don't have the same salary. They're not in the same responsibility? I don't understand that. I also asked you what about nurses, what about logos, what about administrative and auxiliary staff that can be employed in other institutions and businesses, since they have a higher salary there and will probably go out of kindergarten there. Why doesn't the state pay them out of the budget at unique prices so that they have all the same salaries as they would have in health homes or as they would have in schools. So again, a little bit of that standard would rise and we'd keep people at work so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105590	Thank you very much. A colleague Marin Miletic has a replica on your presentation of colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105591	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Pavic, why am I interested in my colleague? So, for the sake of the Croatian public, I know this answer and you and I, the secretary of state has been with us all day, and I'd rather somehow take this as a sensitization, motivation, to do more. So I'm not talking about all the good that's been done and the kindergarten and everything, what are we supposed to do from the opposition instead of saying bravo, just so on. But as it's possible that kids, I'm a Riverain in Umag don't pay for any lipa kindergarten. In my river is paid from 720 to 1000 kuna. I don't know how many are in Zagreb? How is it possible that one breeder, for example, does not know in Zagreb, has a different salary than the raiser in Matulji or in a village in Banovina? How is that possible? So what kind of system are we doing in our country, that people with the same education, so they don't have the same income in the same country. Like there's 300 million of us, not three million of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105592	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105593	Dear colleague, there is no system. The system implies that we know which inputs, that we know which exits. But here you don't know which input, which way out. Is it normal for you to be in the middle that already has a high standard, to be further freed by parents giving compared to those who have a low standard, let's say in Bania, so they are burdened there with extra gifts for kindergartens and the price of kindergartens rising. Because simply the municipality and local self-government simply doesn't have the money to pay the subsidy for that kindergarten. Is that normal for you? How are we supposed to attract people to Bani, to Slavonia, how do we think to raise the number of children there, how do we think to raise the population there? There's no such thing. There's no system. That system absolutely doesn't exist. If there was a system, then we'd talk to the demographics, we'd talk to the minister of education, we'd talk to the minister of the pardon family, and then afterwards we'd know what to do and this is absolutely unknowable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105594	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are going to the next debate of colleagues Marina Opačak-Bilić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105595	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will use this individual debate to further highlight some of the elements and concepts of the final proposal of the Preschool Education and Education Act, which I believe may have been better arranged and accepted and for some that I think should be highlighted once more. So here's to starting with capacity. All my parents, as well as I with three children know, and also from the experience of a large number of acquaintances and in general citizens know how much stress parents actually go through when enrolling in kindergarten and even thinking about whether their child will be enrolled. After that, parents with more children need to fear more and whether all children will be enrolled in the same kindergarten. Because here are the examples where parents drive one child to one location in the morning, one to the next and then to work, and then from work to one child to one end of town, to the other to the other end of town. However, I believe that this capacity issue will indeed be reduced given the investment presented by the IPO we saw last week. But what is not foreseen through either the NPO or through other forms of the role of the state is the issue of co-financing of the amount of kindergarten. In fact, I also referred to the State Secretary in the opening statement concerning the issue of co-financing of kindergarten prices, and I really believe that the state must take over the role in co-financing the economic price of kindergartens because here we now have a situation that prices are very different depending on individual units of local self-government. Col. Miletic showed it exactly as he saw it, and indeed, somewhere, the kindergartens are completely free, and in some parts, i.e. in most part of Croatia, parents pay around 700 kuna most often for one child. It is therefore unacceptable that some of the NPO funds are not aimed at participating the state in price-adopted activities. Because of the lack of capacity in the place of residence, and often here because of the position of the municipalities sometimes the parents are closer, easier and here they are often forced to actually enter the child into the neighboring municipality, and then the kindergarten is paid at an economic price from 1500 to 2000 kuna per child. And I really think that in this regard the state must take a stronger role and understand it is one that can reduce, here I can freely say discrimination on this issue and that this issue of kindergarten prices cannot and must not depend on the budgetary possibilities of local self-government units. Furthermore, we have heard a lot about them today, and here we have both at the entrance to the government and to the Parliament and the protest of educators who are dissatisfied with such a bill and I will not look much at the question of teacher qualifications. We made clear our position on behalf of the club that it could be an option exclusively for the preschool program. But what should be further discussed is working therapists in kindergartens that are currently out of work in Croatia. And it is important to look at this issue so that if working therapists are employed in preschool institutions and start working professionally with children with special needs and start training them for more self-functioning and establishing social interaction with the environment in future school education and environment. Accordingly, there will be a smaller need for assistants, and here will be an easier adjustment when coming to school and of course the system needs to recognise and react. Here's hoping that the proposer will have enough hearing and will decide on one of the two options. The first option is either to accept a large number of amendments or here's another option since it's really a lot of disagreements is the conclusion of our club that we're looking for a third reading, and if this comes to this, we can go to an amendment to the very name of the law that will include this name of early and preschool education, since we now have only preschool education and education, so also early preschool education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105596	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague and colleague, we've finished our individual debates, now we're going to the final debates on behalf of the clubs, first up, first up, colleague Sabina Glasovac from the SDP Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, at the end of this debate today, I hope that our words have reached out to the promoter so much and that at least some of the amendments that have been proposed, and a good part of them will actually be potential for the people to whom this law applies and who, among other things, need to be implemented and accepted tomorrow. If we consider that the coverage of children in kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia in some lower developed countries is about 20%, and in some more developed parts of Croatia exceeds 70%, if we consider that the salaries of employees in kindergartens in Croatia are about 4 thousand kuna, in some parts of Croatia 8 thousand kuna, if we consider that in some parts of Croatia if the child is born in Umag the price of kindergartens his parent will pay nothing, and if the child was born in Konavli, the parent of that child will pay the kindergarten of 800 kuna, then we can see how much this system actually screams from inequality, from unequal conditions, and that is what this law should change among other things. What we all want to achieve by this law is to ensure every child in Croatia an equal chance and equally accessible and equally cost-effective and accessible education in the early and pre-school education system. And it's a nice intensity that by 2030. Croatia's coverage will be 97% of children from the fourth year until they leave for primary school. It is also a beautiful announcement that we will succeed through the NPOO to actually provide 22 thousand new places for kindergartenrs, but we must not let the kindergartens that will be built tomorrow have no means to maintain, that they do not have the means to settle basic material costs, to break the standard that we have blocked educational groups, that we have so many differences in working conditions and in salaries among employees depending on where they live and where they work and I hope that the ministry will, along with this intensity and achieve the goals that it has imposed on us in some way the EU where we are at the beginning when we talk about child coverage in the pre-school education and education system and I hope that we will work parallelly on this structure as well. I know that there is a great challenge for other European countries who are in a much better financial situation than Croatia in some way to provide both criteria, on the one hand, a criterion of accessibility as territorial as priced and in terms of place and available kindergarten, and on the other hand to ensure quality, but I am sure that we can do so with smart policy. But to lead a smart policy, we have to look ahead a few years. So I'll repeat, we're free of buildings, all the most beautiful kindergarten buildings if in those buildings those in charge of its maintenance won't be able to pay for electricity, they won't be able to provide food for those kids or they won't be able to pay the workers. On the other hand, we must not close our eyes to the fact that in Croatia for many years we have had a major problem with the deficit of people who need to wear this system of early preschool education. I do not mind that we are temporarily looking for solutions like this in surplus activities such as teachers of primary or grade classes, but I repeat this must not be a permanent solution, Croatia must take responsibility to project what we need for a quality system of education by 2030, how much a teacher and a teacher and to take on a proactive role that already today has an impact on the coordination with higher schools ensuring everything that our children need in those institutions, and these are highly educated educators and educators and professional educators and educators and educators. Our educators and educators are one of the most educated not only in Europe and the world, but unfortunately we don't have enough of them and let it be some kind of guide, it's not an easy job ahead of us, but understand all of our appeals well-meaningly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105598	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, final counterpart Kresimir Ackar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105599	Dear Vice President HS, esteemed and respected fellow MPs. I would like to begin the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Club on the adoption of this law with a reminder of two important European documents aimed at strengthening children's rights in Europe, which are invited by the Republic of Croatia to ensure access to the quality of education for each child. These are the EU Strategy on the Rights of the Child, which the European Commission adopted about a year ago on 24 March 2021 and a proposal for a recommendation on the establishment of a European Guarantee for Children. Both documents clearly state that national investment is needed to make progress on the ground, and Member States need to ensure access to quality services for children, especially for those children in need of intervention and assistance from the country itself. Among these services, the key place is the early and preschool education and the education of activities which are still considered a little neglected in relation to all other parts of the vertical education. What is really changing, and what positive changes will happen when this law is passed? I'm only going to set a few important examples. Significant assistance to children's kindergarten founders is to prescribe unique criteria for the advantage of enrolment in kindergartens that give priority to the enrolment of children from the most vulnerable groups for whose development and promotion is crucial as early as possible to the preschool system. This is especially important for children with developmental difficulties, for children of single parents, from one parent family, children with disabilities and disabled parents of the Homeland War, children from families with more children and children living in difficult social conditions. Given the expansion of capacity, the construction of new kindergartens, the addition and expansion of existing laws, the issue of sufficient personnel, the conditions for the smooth development of the educational process. The lack of teachers in the labour market can be compensated by the employment of teachers who are able to obtain additional qualifications, and significant assistance is also the employment of a third educator in a educational group or assistant for children with disabilities. The improvement in the availability of kindergartens, especially in smaller rural areas, is to enable the organisation of preschool activities in primary schools. Major aid for areas with the worst development index is a provision that provides for the possibility of providing funding in the state budget as well as for the completion of investments financed by EU projects for the construction of kindergartens and for the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens in this area. In a strategic sense, the creation of a national network of kindergartens will provide concrete insight into the situation on the ground and provide clear information in which parts of the Republic of Croatia require further organisation of pre-school activities. Given the strategic objectives to be achieved by 2030. in the EU-wide preschool system, try to include 96% of children aged three to school leaving, and according to the National Development Strategy, 97% of children aged 4 years of this amendment to the Law in preschool education represent a step forward towards the objectives set here. It is therefore extremely important that with the adoption of documents from Art. 27. This law also starts to be discussed by the DPS which will enable segments that may presently make it a little bit difficult to organise a system for us to open new kindergartens. We all know that all children have equal rights, and so is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but in practice we often see that all children do not have equal opportunities and access to their rights, that much depends on where they live, the property status of their parents, their personal characteristics and many other conditions and circumstances in their environment. But this should not be so, regardless of the child living in the city or village, regardless of the status of the parent each child has the right to kindergarten or the right and opportunity to start institutionalised education. In conclusion, as mayor, politicians and citizens, and perhaps mostly as a parent, I support the adoption of this law and all other regulations that improve and improve the activity of pre-school education with the desire for every child in Croatia to exercise their right to kindergarten to be available, quality, inclusive and [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] affordable preschool system... Croatian people and deserves it. [[Upadica Vidovic: Thank you, thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105600	Thank you. You are 14 seconds old, my colleague Katica Glamuzina will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105601	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the promoter, fellow Simičević thank you, too. Therefore, concrete objections on this bill can be drawn out clearly from many of today's presentations and I hope that the proposal will consider them. We are not talking about any ideological things that would cause disagreements at that level, we are talking about that part of the Croatian society whose well-being is in everyone's best interests. I urge you to take all the objections and suggestions that the opposition has made today on a well-intentioned basis because they are presented in a series of communication with experts and the basis of user experiences. For decades now, it has not been systematically working on some obvious problems because 40 years ago, for the last time in the larger numbers, students were enrolled in preschool programmes when a large number of kindergartens were built. Since then, various governments have been organized in Croatia mainly HDZs, but also SDPs and no one has considered that these people who are at one point in large numbers will be employed and who started working 40 years ago soon to retire and will result in a very rapid decline in the number of breeders. So even if we build thousands of kindergartens overnight, we don't have anyone to hire, so we have to be creative with half a solution. The DPS, when first adopted, had a defined delay in the application of certain items, in the same way we could now define that this solution substitution would be worth, say five years after which it would be reconsidered, and in the meantime the responsible ministry could work to re-enter into the relevant study programmes a number of students who could then start working in the pre-school education system during the five years mentioned. At the same time, we could also recognize what the profession and parents of children with difficulties in separation and create a new concrete interest for assistants in the follow-up to adequate education and enable these assistants to work normally rather than excessively, because they are of indescribable importance for education of children with developmental difficulties, not with the inability to develop. They have the right to education, like any other child, they just need additional help, and we owe them as a society, and as a state and legally binding. In the Social Democrats Club, we didn't write the same amendments that everyone else wrote, not that they weren't good amendments, but we found it pointless to write the amount of amendments that would be needed to fix everything that we think is necessary to fix with such a bill. We believe that the proposed changes and additions are insufficiently protected by children's rights in Croatia because they do not provide adequate solutions for problems in the early and preschool education system, not the correcting of multiple discrimination against children, parents and children's kindergartens throughout Croatia, but are deepening. The proposed legislative solution has not made better solutions than existing ones in any of the five quality dimensions. Since we are talking about starting a process of education for new generations of children, the beginning of an extremely important part of life should be a goal for all of us to make this start as high as possible. We want all the identified problems to be discussed once again, so we don't get to the best possible bill that will satisfy both the profession and the users. Given that there have been significant changes in the draft law between 2 readings, in particular in the way of access to the State Pedagogical Standard and that a number of objections have been made during the debate, we believe that it is important to give more time to the applicant and to the profession that all relevant details are properly considered and agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105602	Thank you very much to my colleague Glamuzini on behalf of the club. Representative of the Mosta, colleague Marin Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105603	Dear Mr. Bukarica, the honourable secretary of state who has been with us all day, dear colleagues and colleagues. Baker, mechanic, Dr. Nuclear Physics, university professor, teacher, basketball player, athlete, to the most extent, we all had educators in kindergartens. And they're not any baby-sitter aunts, they're nothing, I don't know, places where parents let kids go so they sleep there, they feed them, so it's a educational institution. So do whatever you can in a place where you are as secretary of state and ruling to take care of our kids. HDZ claims that today several times he said that, since 2016, I've been going to ask exactly exactly, so 498 kindergartens. I'll say congratulations. I have no problem, all that's good, commend and say congratulations. But I'll tell you what I told the bishops a few years ago. Don't beat all the money into buildings, the pastoral centers, and you'll be left with huge buildings, they look beautiful, and they're empty. There will be no one to fulfill them, and therefore we should do what we can, as a poor opposition where we are and work and torture as much as you can and you who have the greatest responsibility both before God and the people, to make sure that those buildings do not remain empty to us. So kindergartens built to fill. So we have to invest in people, in this case in our foster parents, kindergarten teachers. So we have to invest. And what's the situation? Now let's go a little critically, commended you I did, so you all heard. So, the situation is that within a few kilometers we have educators who have different salaries, different working hours, as if we live in different countries, as if our country has 300 million inhabitants, not poor 3 million Croats, we are citizens of others here, is it, in our small country. So we're an hour away with a car, and the wages are 1,000 kuna difference. That's inadmissible. Inadmissible. It is unfair for a breeder in a village like or Slavonia to be subjected and discriminated against by a breeder in Kasto, Zagreb or elsewhere. It is unfair and discriminatory that our children have a different value if they are in Matulji or if they live in Petrinja or Clay. It's not fair that the kids of Umag, Obrovca, Vrlika, Belišće don't pay a single lip of their kindergarten, and the kids in my River pay between 720 and 1000 kuna. That's not fair. So it has to be a fair system, we have to build it. There are huge waiting lists, many children are not provided kindergarten. In my River last year, 400 children were unable to enroll themselves in kindergarten. Well, that's a big problem. Then where are these people going with the kids? People get, parents get kids, they have to move out of town because they don't have anywhere to go with kids. So we have to provide kindergartens so to parents. The state's stockpile of huge assets through growing taxes. Either tax revenues should be allocated or disbursed, and besides income is direct income from local self-government, and income does not lose state but loses local self-government. Well, I'm not a mathematician, but it's an injustice to me, and I feel the same injustice. So come on, let's help ensure equal conditions for everyone so that we can, secure wages equal and our kids have room so get into kindergartens. Well, that's an extraordinary demographic measure. We're gone, people are running from Croatia. We have friends who are highly educated, they say they buy a suitcase, they go cha, so who's gonna stay here? What are we going to do alone in the Parliament to look at each other? Well, we won't be. So that's my problem as well as your ruling. Unfortunately, I'm barking here for the moon, but that's the only thing I can do. So we do what we can to provide kindergarten kids and pay our kindergarten teachers fair, be fair, and that's why I think the state needs to take it upon itself, and then local self-government will also be able to invest more important resources and organise the whole story at the programme level and everything about kindergarten. Also, Secretary of State, please, so that's the one. 13 famous and that situation about kids who have developmental difficulties, do whatever you can. One aunt can't take care of 20 children, teach them, raise them, take care of them, and then there's no communication agent, no man who can help. So give where the need is, do it and please stick to the words when you say it. That's the one. 11 If I am not mistaken, then that our guardians will not lose their jobs, so they will keep it, they will have every priority in their employment, and only if there is no one there, so no one has checked in, and then it will be made possible for other teachers to do so. Let's look after the kids. Did you give me 15 seconds? ... Oh, and, man, Vidich. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105604	Thank you very much. Time's up, buddy. Following on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives will speak to counterpart Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105605	Dear colleagues and colleagues, everything has already been said more than many times, and then perhaps there is no need to repeat it, and we have already made clear enough what we think, what we stand for, and first and foremost I will point out that we are in the care of the position and working conditions of the breeders and all the workers in the system. Early and preschool education and education for us are one of the cornerstones of demographic policy, the same as the affordable housing and the same as the complete educational verticals, and we have always highlighted this and we will remain attached to it. And now that you've called so much, I'm going to do something about the parent-teacher measure. It is a sad and incredible amount of malice and hypocrisy that some colleagues from around here on the right and the middle have shown today in connection with yesterday's temporary measure brought by a high administrative court. And first of all for my colleague, Boric, for my colleague Murganić, for all colleagues and colleagues from HDZ advocates of this measure not only will I remind them that they voted in the budget but also here, and quotes, our goal is to raise children in early and pre-school education and education from 76% to 90%, guarantee everyone the right to early and pre-school education and education because all studies show that children who participated in pre-school education and education later in education are more successful. Andrej Plenkovic five days ago when presenting the tender for the allocation of funds from the NPOO... is the equipment of kindergartens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The parent parent measure that we inherited from the previous administration in Zagreb is inefficient proven and verifiable from the point of view of the desired increase in the number of newborn children. She is, she is absurdly repressive because she protects mothers from access to the labour market for as long as 15 years, she is deeply unfair and harmful to children because she protects them from access to preschool education, she is also unfair to all other families and citizens of the City of Zagreb and she is financially unsustainable. I'll remind you once again every month, every month the fee for that measure amounts to or costs this city 45 million kuna. Incidentally or not, this is exactly the amount needed to build a kindergarten. One kindergarten every month. In addition, this measure has brought us enormous infrastructure sub-optimation, therefore serious but very serious lack of kindergarten capacity. The decision to amend the measure we took in December was not taken overnight, was made after serious reflections and analysis, the decision was not made immediately or taken with a delay of 5 months. Most importantly, we are convinced that this decision was legal. We believe that this will also be the final word of the High Administrative Court and we want that decision, the final decision of the High Administrative Court to be made as soon as possible. And in the end, I'd say something much wider or perhaps more fundamental. If, in some cases, the High Administrative Court decided that the decision to amend the measures taken by the City Assembly was illegal, I think, we think that it would be a rough and direct blow to the democratic right of citizens to choose changes in policies because if the elected local government cannot change the policies and measures of the previous local government then the elections lose any sense, and I remind you that this measure is a decision, the autonomous decision of the previous local authorities, this measure is not the application of any more regulation or law and it will not be possible for the HDZ alone to be the national or local authority to change the decisions of the previous authorities, and that any other change which does not originate from the HDZ administration to be declared illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105606	Thank you, thank you. Here we will conclude today's debate on this point by exhibiting on behalf of the motionary of State, Mr Tomislav Paljko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will say immediately final, clear and unequivocally how I am personally behind each article of the amendment of the law, and I consider each of them an important and qualitative step towards what has been in force so far, and that I am not talking about its adoption in terms of necessity for the application of the strategic document. New kindergartens, new capacities, new comforts, new conditions will put into a great deal of this current overcrowding and inequality that many MPs today rightly debated into another plan, and somewhere this problem will disappear completely. Thanks to the NPOO funds, what follows in the future period that we talked about today is what we want to achieve with these amendments to the law. I must further say that there has been a lot of talk about the problem, much too much of this space has taken up a problem that is not at all the subject of this, but the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government by which the funds for the salaries of employees, but also all other funds for all other financing of kindergartens are provided by the owner. The founders are municipalities, cities and counties. All the time, we've been intertwining the issue of this law that goes into change with the reasons I've been saying why they have to be brought and not just that, and it keeps coming back and constantly imputing something that isn't even about this law. And then, of course, when mentioning the possibility that, and this law foresees using NPO funds, it opens up an option that has never been opened so far, that those municipalities and cities belonging to a smaller index of development, which will be included in the construction of their kindergartens that they do not now have and will not be able to complete and kindergartens from the budget will be realised by the end. In parallel, this law provides in those units of local and regional self-government where the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens due to such a poor, sad and poor capacity will therefore not be able to comply with those standards that we want to make in the budget for this purpose that will be passed by a government regulation. And there we have been, in some way, balling ourselves from one concept in another, and all of this is going through a state pedagogical standard that is not the same with the subject of amending this law, one small part only in chapter 6 because preschool will be tied to the national curricula of preschool and, of course, the National Curricula of Development, the work of preschool education and education, early and preschool education. And let me say why we didn't use the term early here, even though that's the exact term, because these are the amendments to the law, and the termology was related to the fundamental law. Instead of these interventions and these predictions make us welcome back, we're fucked. Here I am asked a rhetorical question or not, whether I have ever changed my diaper, about whether Minister Fuchs has changed his diapers, rhetorically or practically, he will answer it, and I will say that as a father of four, I have very changed diapers, as a grandfather I love very, very much, and every opportunity I use to change my granddaughter's diapers, and you will have to make me a lot more diapers to replace this one, but I see that you are on the right path and I want it from your heart. However, imputing me to care for children is also inappropriate and I must reject it with indignity because in order to care and work, direct work with children can be compared to me will take a few decades of training respected MPs As regards also imputation [[Mr. Secretary of State, stick to the law.]] Yes, of course, but it's about the law, of course, because it's mentioned. [[Intruder: Stick to the law, let go of these personal...]] So children with difficulties. [[You're just talking about the law.]] I've been on occasion in my career to run a kindergarten, I've been on occasion to take care of children with difficulties in times when the concept of assistants in class wasn't at all on the horizon, and I know therefore the assumption is that I know what I'm talking about. I would also like to say that, and therefore, I have the need to answer the question whether this part of funding for children with difficulties is foreseen in the budget, is, of course, 50, and we have naturally referred to the fact that when assistants enter, and so far they have not been listed or recognised in the law, when they enter kindergartens, then it is the obligation of the founder to pay them. It's a possibility, of course, that's what we talked about, and I was understood as if I didn't understand what it meant to get assistants into kindergarten. Also, the spear is being broken about what the waist suggests, which is not suggested by us not to adopt observations, we do not present solutions to what we were warned of before this session. I must say, of all the things I've had the opportunity to see and read again, it all comes down to two key problems. One is DPS and the other is class class. All right, here's to reading initiatives, scientific circles, organizations, all who appear so with what they say in theory except, of course, that they state one conclusion that I disagree with because it's not supported that this amendment of the law will reverse the standards regarding early and preschool education and education, and I disagree with that, it comes down to DPS and comes down to class education. I don't know why this DPS fama was created, but I do know that when, for example, the SIDRO Association came to talk to the ministry, we both received the Minister and I. We said we'd consider DPS, and putting aside DPS wasn't at all a question. I went to the best religion in Opatija for a conference. There were four unions, there was the Sidro Association, we had a panel. After that, they even thanked me in writing for a constructive discussion, for everything. I think here's a colleague of yours. Did I ever mention, implying that we'd put out DPS power and put it on, deal with it with the rules. The rule was an option, but it was not an option for him to go to the harm of those who work in kindergartens and to go to the harm of those hardworking breeders who work with those children. It was never an idea at least for me, and I ran this process. And I'd like these things to be about the law, but we also have to clear them up if we can talk about it that way. As regards these examples, which in practice occur from fantastic to even some nakaradal and anomalies, I will mention that, of course, the articles are defined by very clear articles under which terms can be opened and all criteria must be contained. And why they have to go through programs, procedures to get a solution. Who's not holding on to that? We've had a lot of implications here that a lot of people don't stick with it. Why don't you report to the Educational Inspector if you have any knowledge that someone isn't following those standards and that someone doesn't respect them. I don't know, that's one option. I invite you to report it. Then the Educational Inspection will require that these shortcomings be removed, which in the second one will mean that they will have to be cut off, or expelled, from the system. Is that a better solution I don't know, but these changes to the law through the NPO and the funds available to us in this first call of the 1.22 billion kuna will create better conditions for our children. And we can't say that we don't think about them as far as class classes are concerned. So, with everything that I have to repeat class, so primary education and primary education teachers can enter and work in kindergarten only if no educator has reported to work in that workplace, regardless of whether it is two-year schools, pedagogical schools. Whether or not it's the beekeepers, so three-year-olds, also the senior expert prepares. Whether it was the masters of early preschool education and education. So it's only when you don't have any of him that you have the opportunity to hire the most related associate, and that's the master's of primary education. Someone explain to me that this is not the case and let someone explain to me that a master’s degree in primary education under such conditions cannot work well in kindergartens. I will stand behind this bill and personally and not because I am the one, but because these are parallel processes that are extremely cooperative, which are compatible. It's just like that. 80 and some amendments are here. Of course we'll study everyone, analyze each other, and explain ourselves. But already this letharmic view of this class teaching issue whether they will be permanent non-professionals and whether they are in some period of time only that limited I have not seen that there is a time limit, but I have not seen any constructive solution to how to bridge that gap that will happen when there will be no one working in kindergartens. I'd like to know those solutions, I didn't see them, okay. I'll allow it. We will look again and if one of these amendments finds a solution in which this situation potentially and extremely dangerously exceeds, then of course we will include it and we will consider it. Furthermore, I will always prefer to make decisions and make mistakes rather than wait as in this example for nine years to happen some changes in the law. It's not a problem, of course, to put up with critics, fucks, eggs. The problem is that information is mixed and concepts are mixed. So these are changes to the law in ten of some reference points and I guarantee that each of these points, of these articles, is a qualitative step in the right direction. What would be, and that's what I said and I'll repeat it irresponsiblely in this situation not to support it. Whether or not there will be an assessment that something essential will be obtained by third reading at this point will not prejudge but I will say that these amendments to the law have come well and not only because of the NPO but also because of the other business parts to which they apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105608	Thank you. Here's your final presentation that caused a few reactions. First, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague, Marija Selak Rasdic, declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105609	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. Your serious answer to my rhetorical question made me laugh especially when you were surrounded by so many things as a man of nature in caring for a child that I could only talk to you about as a woman. However, my question may be, did you write this bill while changing diapers? Why don't you explain to me how breeders can change diapers at the same time in a sanitary knot and take care of the rest of the 20 children standing in that same room? So this is the question to be [[Invadica Vidovic: Time of colleague.]] deal with the position and rights of breeders in the system, not the question of whether or not you've really changed diapers. [[Invadica Vidovic: Time of colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105610	Time's up, buddy! You have to get a warning, because you could've asked for a replica, you could've said the same thing. But you lost your right, so you got a reassurance, but which one is it. The third, I guess, is taking away your right to speak. Mr. Secretary of State, you must speak when you are given your word. Now a fellow colleague, Davor Dretar, has come forward for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105611	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, 238, Mr. Secretary of State. Extraordinary alarming drawers, you've hurt, not just feelings, but everything you need, I'm sorry. Your pledoies on procreation are impressive, it's an honor, but in a few places you're really, we have to say freely, all of us have been instructed to ask ourselves, when you asked who would work in kindergartens, if this law would solve it. That's the situation. [[/Intruder: Time's up, fellow Dretar, unfortunately. Here.]] Tell me who's going to work on the building, who's going to work at the cafes. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Well, it's a product created by your government, Your Honor. [[Intruder: Comrade Dretar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105612	Comrade Dretar, time's up. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're getting a warning about this, counterpart Sanja Radolović also has, injure of the Rules of Procedure [[I'll be glad.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 238, we are discussing here, so I don't know, almost 10 hours about these amendments to the bill, and several times we've given you a solution to how to solve the educational deficit, and that solution is to negotiate with high schools, it's a national interest to increase the quotas at high schools, and on the other hand you have a surplus of class teachers and what we're interested in, how long this temporary measure will take. Is it actually a permanent measure or is it going to have some kind of The time frame? [[Thank you, colleagues. Time is up, I'm afraid.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105614	Unfortunately, this is also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica so that you get a warning, and the replica now has a colleague Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105615	My dear secretary, I wanted to tell you, so you keep mentioning that you've been fucked, so we didn't fuck you, you've been fucked by protesters in front of the Parliament, but in all the protests in all the cities and before, you've been fucked by scientists with your open letter, by 20 of them, is it, that the law is not good. Now, I know that people tend to resist change, so if, by no means, I wouldn't characterise this as if it were a group of people who, there, don't want to change their system, so now, they're yelling out just like that so they don't have some kind of, I don't know, comfortable and commuting movement, but people really did write a serious set of remarks, and I said, "I'm surprised that you didn't, like, ask you this morning at the beginning, you said you didn't look at that. Yeah, okay, but what I said was actually one absurd. Okay, I'm out of time, but I wanted to talk about Absurdu to say that the educators go to others [[You're out of time, pal.]] Jobs, here, I'll get a warning, [[She's fine, colleague. It's good.]] And the educators go to other jobs, and come from class to their place. [[So don't be co-workers.]] Don't you think that's a little weird?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105616	Now it's a warning, I have to give you a warning, and the Secretary of State has a chance to answer this line now, please. Now you've got it and now you've got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105617	Thank you very much. I've already asked if there's any personal identity protection institutes for officials. No, so we're saying we're dividing concepts. Of course we are talking about quotas and in university,.../incomprehensible/... in Rijeka we have an example of the standard of occupation, or a study programme that can immediately produce this qualification without any problems, that is, it is also a form for other universities and we are talking to them. This question of the quota, why did it happen to us at.../incomprehensible/... that we don't have enough educators, and we have too many recipients, that's of course a broader question, but I warn you that universities are autonomy in determining quotas, and we're just one subport in that sense of suggestion, which, of course, we also do. This second part... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105618	Thank you very much. You'll get a chance to answer that. My colleague Katica Glamuzina is about to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105619	Thank you, Mr. Thumb. You said very confidently at first that you were behind every decision, behind every article of this Law. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm glad you made it so clear, maybe it'll be relevant for the prime minister in some future government reconstruction to know who's behind these bad decisions, and I'll ask you who's behind the decision, i.e. the lack of decision is already a long number of years on clearly calculated labour market needs does not correspond to an increase in the registration quotas in the relevant colleges because since 2017, there has been a calculation that defines exactly how many new breeders it takes to get out of college, and the quotas have not been increased since then. They are recorded about 600 each year, and needs are numbered in thousands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105620	Thank you very much. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105621	Thank you very much. Ask me about my direct level of responsibility. This is what I said, so quotas are a question of university autonomy, and we're just an advisory role in that part, and they're responsible for it, it's a question for them, just like the mass of questions asked here, actually questions for units of local and regional self-government, or their standards, respecting or disregarding those standards. Here, I can say it, and what I said, I'm behind it, I'm behind these changes and I wouldn't allow myself and I won't, I'm usually a member of the government, that's right, I can always be part of the reconstruction, though, uh, I'm not HDZ. If I didn't believe this, no HDZ and no government would have made me defend this. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105622	Thank you very much. The next line has colleagues Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105623	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I would ask you to reconsider the possibilities either through your amendments or by accepting ours to more precisely define which bodies are founders when the founder of units of local and regional self-government. In fact, we see a lot of times that it's, like, agree that a third educator or assistant for children with developmental difficulties can be employed, as well as the appointment of V.D. Director, etc. So that there would be no dilemma whether it was a representative body or an executive, that in the whole of this law it would define it more precisely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105624	Thank you very much. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105625	Thank you very much. So I realized that it's the intensity of being an executive body because it's more logical in terms of clarity of decision-making. If there are no obstacles to this amendment being adopted or defined that way, we'll see, but you'll also get an answer and an explanation, but I know what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105626	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's a colleague and a colleague of mine we've concluded here after 10 hours of debate on this obviously extremely important, important subject, and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Here you go. I suggest we go to the next item of today's agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, second reading, P.Z. No. 186. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, Mr. Ivica Sušak, State Secretary of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105935	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary deputies and distinguished parliamentary representations. The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science lies before you. HS held at its meeting on 14 December 2001. He passed the Law on the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development, which later changed the name of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The Foundation was established with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and in order to achieve its fundamental purpose, the Foundation provides support for basic, applied and development research. The existing legislation is obsolete and does not regulate a system of science funding in a way that would be consistent with all requirements currently made by Croatia and the European Research Area. In view of the fact that the applicable law is in force together with the 2012 amendments. its provisions do not comply with the provisions of the Foundation Act, and in that sense it was necessary to comply with the legislation. The aim of this law is to define more clearly the legal status of the foundation, and the way it works through increasing the quality and transparency of the financing of scientific projects and programmes, and a clearer division of the work of the bodies themselves. The starting point of these changes is a national development strategy which, within the strategic objective of a competitive and innovative economy, defines the priorities of science and technology policies and, among other things, the reform of the science system and the academic research sector in order to achieve global standards of excellence and innovation creation, and then develop research capacities with an emphasis on human potential in STEM and ICT areas, research and innovation funding reforms through the new institutional framework and research programmes, technological development and innovation, particularly in the fields of information communication technology, artificial intelligence and robotics, biotechnology and green technologies. Furthermore, the NPOO approved by the European Commission supports the above-mentioned priorities through the proposed measures aimed at raising research and innovation potential in the framework of a reform called improving the efficiency of public investment in the field of research, development and innovation. The implementation of the reform includes the adoption of a new Act on the Croatian Science Foundation, which will allow for the implementation of tailored programmes towards the revised framework of funding and research, development and innovation. The new legislative framework to be adopted will allow for the transformation and strengthening of the capacity of the trust into a body that will allow for a simplified and systematic approach to the policy of project financing, research and innovation management. The draft Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science began the process of restructuring the Foundation. The restructuring of the Science Foundation will cover the modification of fundamental acts and the normative framework of the Foundation through the introduction of a new programming framework and monitoring, and the strengthening of the operational capacities of the foundation itself. As part of the project, a review of public expenditure on science, technology and innovation carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education with the World Bank has made a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of investments in science, technology and innovation in the Republic of Croatia in the past seven years. The Croatian Foundation for Science programmes have been analysed in terms of functionality, efficiency, surveyed users, and recommendations on design and implementation of the funding programme for scientific activities have been adopted. As regards those recommendations related to the Foundation programmes, the reduction of the project selection process, the reduction of administrative burdens for users, as well as the introduction of a framework for monitoring and evaluation of the effects of the programmes themselves, is one of the key recommendations for the implementation of the selection of projects, stressing that there should be a much greater impact of independent and international reviewers, and a smaller impact of expert panels composed of local scientists who are very often in conflict of interest given the small scientific community in the Republic of Croatia. In order to make science funding programmes easier to adapt to the national framework for funding, research and innovation through the entire innovation system, it is proposed that certain types of programmes set out in general be established in order to establish certain types of programmes to the general acts of the Foundation. The Management Board will coordinate the programmes on its own in line with the recommendations for improving the programme, which has been made through a project review of public expenditure in research, development and innovation in terms of greater efficiency and functionality. The new law makes it clearer to define the legal status of the foundation in such a way that it is prescribed who is exercising founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia for the foundation itself, who exercises supervision of the legality of the work and the conduct of the trust, as well as supervision of the financial operations of the trust. Following the debate at the meeting of HS held on 27 January 2022. in relation to the text of the law in the first reading, and respecting the observations made by the honourable legislators, the proposal for a law has been completed, the purpose of the foundation itself is more detailed in such a way as to add words with a view to ensuring sustainable, scientific, technological, social and economic development, a more clearly defined concept of researchers, and the aim of the foundation which reads: "The development of the economy and the creation of a new knowledge-based environment and society". Furthermore, it is also prescribed that the process of evaluation of the proposals for scientific projects should be carried out by scientific and professional committees whose work and composition has so far been more clearly prescribed. The final draft law provides that the types of programmes, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funding for scientific projects from the state budget, then the evaluation of proposals for scientific projects, the financing and monitoring of the implementation of scientific projects, shall be determined by general acts in accordance with the purpose of the Foundation's Management Board. It is prescribed that the evaluation process is independent and largely international scientific and expert reviewers, and the selection procedure of the projects is prescribed by the Regulation on the terms and procedures of the allocation of funds to achieve the purpose of the trust, which, according to the type of funding programme, brings the Management Board of the Foundation. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the evaluation of the proposal for scientific projects is carried out independently, objectively, impartially and transparently, and that it includes scientific and professional review mostly at international level. While more extensive projects require international reviewers for shorter youth mobility programmes, project evaluation can also be carried out by local expert committees. As regards European funds, it is prescribed that the procedure for the evaluation of proposals for scientific projects is financed and monitored for the implementation of scientific projects financed and decentralised by the EU funds and other international sources to be established by implementing agreements with competent authorities, given that it is European funds which are allocated in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down by specific programmes, such as NPOO, the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the Croatian-Switzerland Cooperation Programme. The draft final draft law harmonises the term of office of the members of all bodies of the foundation for four years and stipulates that the strategic plan of the foundation brings HS to the proposal of the Management Board of the Foundation, with the previous consent of the Ministry of Science. Furthermore, the final proposal for a law requires the Management Board of the Foundation to adopt a Regulation on the terms and procedures of the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation without the prior consent of the Ministry of Science. The final draft law clearly defines the power of the Foundation Management Board in the decision making on the financing of projects in such a way that it is prescribed that the same applies to decisions of the Management Board on the financing of scientific projects under the programmes and that provisions have been added to which it is prescribed that the Management Board of the Foundations make individual financial decisions in accordance with the terms of the prescribed statute of the Foundation and the decision on the allocation of financial resources in accordance with the purpose of the Foundation. The selection criteria of the members of the Management Board of the Foundation are further clearly defined and the authority of the Vice-President of the Management Board of the Foundation is prescribed to convene meetings of the Management Board of the Foundation in the event of the absence or prevention of the Chair of the Management Board of the Foundation. In order to increase the quality, transparency of the financing of scientific projects and programmes, we have previously prescribed the establishment of a new expert body of the Board of Appeals Foundation, and now further developed criteria for the appointment of members of that Committee for Objections and the appointment of members of the Commission are exclusively within the competence of HS. It is also prescribed that objections may be made to decisions of the Management Board of Foundations due to conflicts of interest or administrative or procedural errors prescribed by the General Act on the procedure of allocation of funds within eight days of the date of delivery of the decision. The final draft law stipulates that the term of office of the Executive Director of the Foundation shall cease on the date of entry into force of this Act or the obligation of the Management Board of the Foundation to appoint the Executive Director of the Foundation under the Foundation Act within eight days of the entry into force of the Law itself and to open a tender for the Director of the Foundation within 15 days of the adoption of the Statute of the Foundation. A new provision has also been added, requiring the Ministry of Science to publish a public call for candidates for members of the Board of Appeals within 15 days of the entry into force of the statutes of the Foundation. The new law proposes that the Foundation conducts business books and draws up financial reports according to the rules governing the management of accounts of budgetary users, which is in accordance with the provisions of the State budget for 2022. adopted by HS at its session held on 8 December 2021. The Fund is mostly financed by donations from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, and by less than part from the European Structural Funds, international cooperation and other sources. Since 2002. By 2020, from a total of $1,093 billion of income is even €1,013 billion, the revenues of the state budget. In 2022. The planned investment from the state budget in Croatia is worth a total of 186.7 million kuna. In addition, investments in Croatia's Science Foundation totalling 621 million kuna in the period from 2022-2026 were planned through planned programmes under the NPOO. The correction only related to a billion kunas and billions and 13 million kunas were revenues from the state budget. Based on this proposed law and with the combined funding of the national budget of eu funds, the Croatian Foundation for Science will become a strong and central institution of financing excellent science both basic scientific research and applied with the aim of developing the Croatian economy and society as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105936	Here we have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative Marija Selak Rapsudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105937	Dear Secretary of State. Given the major problems in the work of the foundation that are recognized in the Croatian scientific community, and given this legislative proposal, which is largely envisioned by the ministry to take over the role of competence over the work of the foundation, I am very particular about what you will do with the key document, which is the strategic plan of the foundation, i.e. by the fact that it is still not adopted, and this last date should have ended in 2018. So, if the ministry really is under such a legal proposal, there will be an opportunity to monitor what you will do if this plan has not been adopted and presented in the Croatian Parliament as a fact so far. Who will be responsible and what tools you will use to finally get some vision of Croatian science, and perhaps we should get for that retroactive period since we obviously skipped it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105938	Thank you, well-respected MPs, so the Ministry of Science and Education is at the disposal of an instrument of administrative oversight regarding the legality of work and business where, if such a law is voted in this high house, it will use all the instruments of supervision, order the board of directors to adopt a strategic plan or make a proposal that comes before this high house, to report on this high home which ultimately appoints members of the Management Board of Foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105939	The next replica is the respected representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105940	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have also seen that you have received an open letter from both the Minister and the Prime Minister, so why are you insisting so much that the Ministry of Science and Education interferes with the story of the foundation, why you want the ministry's consent to be required when proposing and the members of the board themselves who must admit that the system will now be politicized. Therefore, the proposal of members of the board of directors comes from the government, with the agreement of the ministry, to the Croatian Parliament. If it's not politicizing what it is then? And I would ask you to answer me very specifically, which is why, if this has not been the case so far and we have seen from this open letter that scientists are satisfied with the state of affairs as it is now or not, which is why you are now insisting that the ministry and conduct supervision of the work of the foundation itself, be involved in the selection and members of the board of directors and be involved with the adoption of consent to the strategic plan of the foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105941	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So with our attention and attention we received and studied a letter from 332 scientists, on the other hand we also have a second sex, which is opposition, objections to the work of the foundation so far since it was founded. You need to know that since the foundation was founded, no supervision of the legality of the work of the foundation has ever been carried out, it has not been directly prescribed who conducts the supervision or the supervision was to conduct this high home which, given some similar institutions such as the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, had no practice of implementation, exercise of supervision. We had a case where there was a change in the statutes of the foundation where the current board of directors was extended beyond the legal term of four years until the appointment of a new one, and this financial part of this was also out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105942	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105943	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanader. Dear Mr. Shušak, first of all, I am impressed by your ability to use the condicionals. It's very convenient for me when you say if this law goes through, it's impressive but it's not the subject of my replica. Mostly since you're a graduate lawyer, you've also worked at the Institute of History, and I'm quite certain that the termology is quite clear to you. The institute in which you worked is one, the foundation is one entirely different formation whose definition is, the foundation is an institution whose purpose is determined by the founder or trustee by means of his property. So, once again, even though you said that in your opening presentation, I would ask you to explain to us what the revenue side of the Croatian Science Foundation looks like, or how much money comes from donations, and how much from the state budget, or from the pockets of Croatian taxpayers. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105944	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So since the foundation was founded a billion 93 million revenue was a trust fund, out of which billions and 13 million kunas were revenues from the state budget. So over 95% of the revenues the foundation makes come from the state budget, in fact, it has been a pure transmission of the budget user so far, if I may put it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105945	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105946	Dear Secretary, as you said you had carefully read this and with due attention to whether it was an open letter from 332 scientists who said whether or not the new Foundation Act would ensure the independence and continuity of the Foundation's activities without political influence, I would like to know how you provided these two requests, which is to ensure that members of the Management Board and all the professional bodies of the Foundation are chosen exclusively according to the high criteria of scientific excellence and by following the standards of the most scientifically developed countries. And others retaining international project review as a mandatory part of the selection process. Because here in this proposal, you mention these international reviews with the word "mostly." So, mostly that means it's not mandatory but it can, and it doesn't have to. Also, when selecting board members, you also mention some words which can be interpreted differently. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as I said, with due attention, we discussed the letter, the letter of scientists compared to the first reading of this law in this final proposal of the law added additional criteria with experience of international importance in the respect of project management experience, the experience in reviewing trust projects as a criterion for selecting members of the trust board. And when it comes to international, international reviews are particularly important in most cases, however, the possibility has been left for those direct technological projects and projects to which, small projects giving scientific careers researchers are less valuable projects and possibly of professional importance. In this respect, it does not need to engage in international review capacity because it also implies too much cost, and the importance of this is not at international scientific level when it comes to basic and applied scientific research. And a strategic protection program will come before you. You will also have the opportunity to influence the strategic programme itself in this high House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105948	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105949	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is evident from this proposal, the final proposal for a law that the applicant has accepted a whole series of remarks and proposals as well as proposals from the parent board on education and science, as well as proposals from individual representatives. I would especially point out, therefore, the difference and improvement compared to the first reading. It is this Article 4 which stipulates that the evaluation includes a scientific and professional review mostly at international level, which I think is an even stronger role for international panels. And I think it contributes to quality. Equally related to the strategic plan of the Foundation has been added to the improved, defined as bringing it to the Croatian Assembly's proposal by the Management Board, with the agreement of the Ministry of Science. And what I consider to be a good, qualitative improvement is a provision that provides for the possibility of objecting to the Committee for Objections, either because of conflicts of interest or because of administrative or other procedural errors. I think that's progress in terms of transparency. He likes treasures. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105950	Thank you very much. So, definitely what was the objection of many scientists particularly in the scientific field of social and/or humanistic sciences was an objection to the review process and to the selection of reviewers perhaps not so much through panels which are one narrow circle of a group of scientists, perhaps even through the influence of the foundation administration which is miraculously located even partly in Opatija. That's how it was founded then. The fathers or founders of the foundation assessed the issue of its economics and purpose was questionable. And that is definitely why there must be an independent body, a second-degree body, and it is most natural for this House to appoint a body that will resolve complaints because it is primarily big state money, but also for the protection of the interests of scientists themselves who apply to projects as institutions themselves, but primarily scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105951	The next replica of the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105952	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, this legislative solution has been prescribed that the Foundation will, in order to achieve its purpose, allocate financial resources to basic research, applied research at an early stage of technological readiness, scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, and for the development of the career of researchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral level. In order to increase the efficiency and functionality of investments in scientific projects and to enable the implementation of programmes planned under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan proposed by the law, it is prescribed that the types of programmes should be established by general acts of the Foundation rather than by law. And my question to you what does this mean for the foundation and its functioning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105953	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, definitely what has been seen as a negativity, i.e. problems in the functioning of the foundation's work so far, are shortening the deadlines and allowing more meaningful reference to calls and funding themselves. The Fund is taking on to a significant extent the funding of technology projects to improve innovation in the economy and transfer technology from science to the economy, where unfortunately we are badly ranked, where the number of innovations, the number of transfers themselves, technology is at the beginning of EU member states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105954	The next replica is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105955	I thank the chairman. I would, in my free interpretation, conclude that one of the foundation's tasks is through all its activities and a little bit of concern, let's say the reputation of Croatian science, so I liked the part where you talked about the need for an international review of scientific projects. So now I'm going to ask you something else if there is a way the foundation could or think that it should in some way require the Croatian universities to apply international review and doctoral work. Because no matter how detailedly responsible, professional and unsuspecting these are ours, they're being promoted by a few plagiarists, so maybe they could use some help between the lines of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Fortunately or unfortunately, there is a constitutional provision on university autonomy where one of the foundations or essences of the university's own autonomy is the establishment of educational, or study programmes and the acquisition of qualifications that are there only the university can and must improve the reviewing and quality control within itself. It is the starting point and circle of the entire concept of universities, universities, academia and each university bears responsibility and is responsible for the consequences of poor quality of any of its scientific, seminarical, doctoral works, any bad professor titles etc. etc. In Croatian society and the Croatian public, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105957	And the last replica, the respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105958	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The Foundation aims to popularise science and we see that in 2020 we had 185.9 million, 2021. 186.7 million kuna. And now that you ask me whether it's better to work or not, I'll always tell you that it's better to work and suffer a certain criticism than not to do anything and experience criticism again. So our goal is to leave science recruits here in Croatia, give them encouragement, give them the opportunity to achieve health excellence and benefit the Republic of Croatia. And the law is being amended precisely to change the legislation that was outdated in both Croatian and European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105959	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Davor Dretar mentioned my previous internship at the Croatian Institute of History and then, in cooperation with the late academicist Nenad Vekaric, he was a representative of the Institute of Historical Sciences of the HAZU in Dubrovnik and just when the talented projects in the field of humanistic sciences began he calculated that unfortunately the amount of money for the project in history in the field of humanistic science was less than the number of hours spent by scientists from Dubrovnik, from Dubrovnik from the Dubrovnik Institute of Historical Sciences of the HAZU in Dubrovnik than they received money. This administrative bureaucratic pressure that scientists themselves had was amazing from the proof, so I know historians had to deliver to the foundation a copy of the archival structure they took in the Croatian State Archives because it was not a credible document certified and this stamped account from the Croatian State Archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105960	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas, you can sit down. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first one, on behalf of the clubs, is the first Green-left bloc representative club and, on their behalf, the respected representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105961	Dear state secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, following a January debate on the proposal of this law, a group of prominent scientists 69 signed an open letter to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Radovan Fuchs and the Croatian Parliament. In the letter, some flat-rate evaluations of the foundation's work so far are denied in the opening part of the legal text, but in the parliamentary debate. Additional support was given not only by 332 but more precisely 335 scientists, equally prominent scientists, calling for the provisions of the new law to allow for independence and continuity of action and to introduce in appropriate provisions the criteria of excellence. I have no right to say that I speak on behalf of the signatories of that letter or petition, but I can say that I fully share their views and support them from this place. I also share with them disappointment and concern because all the key remarks that we had in our first reading of this law remained undisclosed. What is important is the need for the first foundation to guarantee its independence in work without political influence, secondly, that board members should be chosen exclusively according to scientific excellence criteria in accordance with the criteria of the most developed countries. And thirdly, according to these same criteria and the same criteria, with the participation of international panels, the proposed projects are evaluated. The same demands still stand. I'd like to point out a few things here in particular. The first foundation of the remark refers to Article 3 of this Act, with which the founding rights and obligations are transferred from the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Science and Education. In the larger countries to which we look, the body responsible for policy making and strategies from the organisations responsible for implementing these policies is allocated. The reason is simple, independence is necessary because only political independence also allows for the independence of scientific research. Related issues are the definition of the purpose and purpose of the foundation. Why Article 4. where the purpose of the foundation is described is left out just the first thing written in the current law, which is to support advanced research recognised at international level by investing in top scientific ideas and excellent researchers because this is what the foundation needs to be a lever and platform for participation in world-class science. Instead, paragraph 1 of this article states that the purpose of the Foundation is to develop and promote science with the aim of ensuring sustainable scientific, technological, social and economic development, and paragraph 4 describes the objective of once again saying the Foundation promotes scientific excellence, etc. etc. with the aim of developing an economy and creating a new knowledge-based environment and society. I'm going to direct this, these statements, and I'm going to tell the foundation it doesn't serve economic development. The Foundation serves and should serve the primary development of science. And science not only has its intrinsic value but it needs and serves for much wider and much more fundamental than economic development, which is the development of society in all its dimensions, including the economy. In paragraph 3, scientific research remains of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, although it is not clear what it is and where it is defined or who will define it, given that they are neither basic research nor applied research at an early stage of technological readiness and the question is what it is, and doubts are raised about the creation of privileged topics and areas. Secondly, members of the Management Board of the Foundation, members of the Management Board of the Foundation shall appoint the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular those who have internationally recognised works of order, in particular those that have internationally recognised works and results and experience in the management of scientific projects and the evaluation of project proposals, says Article 8. However, no criteria are laid down on the basis of which scientists who are indeed the top-notch criteria of the most developed countries would be chosen. Quite recently, we had the opportunity to see how, in practice, the proposal and appointment of board members are indeed refused when it seems without visible criteria. In short, any criteria of excellence have been completely abandoned, and this is totally unacceptable. It is absolutely necessary for candidates for board members to be top scientists according to the criteria of the most scientifically developed countries, those who have world-renowned results. That's the key. And here every compromise, every deviation makes inconceivable damage. Similarly, Article 11 left out any criteria for the selection of trustees, and everything is stated in the profile of the board members. It should, it should be applied here. In addition, they are left out of the circle of authorised applicants, candidates for members of the Board of Directors of the Association of Employers of the National Council for Science, and scientists and members of the academic community. In this procedure, it is necessary to ensure that the entire academic community is a participatory. Third and just as important as the previous who and how they evaluate projects. Article 4 of paragraphs 6 and 7 states that the evaluation of the proposal for scientific projects is mainly carried out at international level and that mainly international experts are involved, which is mostly bad. Where the international panels that we patiently and carefully built for years disappeared. Paragraph 3 of Article 13 states: “Articles of scientific and professional committees shall consist of experts with experience in the management of scientific projects, the evaluation of project proposals, and those with international visibility. That's not enough. It is necessary to seek experience in the management of scientific projects and experience in the evaluation of proposals for scientific projects of the same rank of competence, and the emphasis is again the same, in the same spirit. It is necessary to ensure that members of the committees are elected according to the criteria of excellence, to possess competences, to be at least referred to at the level of competence of trust tenders. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the attitudes I have expressed here are expressed on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club but also beyond that. They were first expressed in the interest of the academic community and the overall scientific work in the Republic of Croatia. The same goes for the amendments we're going to make. They are not a fruit of party interest, but they are authentic attempts by scientists to fix, or improve this legal text. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support them, and the Secretary of State, and I ask you to pass that message on to the Minister, please consider their adoption, so the adoption of these amendments at least with as much sincere concern as they are written with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105962	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative of Mary Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105963	The tragedy of the Croatian people and happiness in the accident of certain ministers of the current government consists of the fact that there are so many publicly-proclaimed ministers who are accused of corruption, that many other ministers in the same government and their actions go completely under the radar, or beyond the public's eyes. So when we look at one of the entire government in the current hour, we can see maybe some smiling faces, because maybe Minister Beros is looking forward to having Mrs. Tramišak here, so he is looking forward to maybe having a minister there now soon, former Aladrovic, etc. We have a vicious circle of people who are lucky to exist in this government worse than they are. And in such a consolidation of the strength and burden of the public of all known affairs, we have some ministers whose actions are never discussed in public. One of these ministers is Minister Fuchs and the Ministry of Science. The Ministry of Science is not the first time in this legislative proposal but before what I warned about, and what happened before summer at that time when you are sure that the debate will not be so active and current it will go into a quiet march on independent scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so we talked about how the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education under the new legislative proposal that finally passed through we now have the same process with the Croatian Foundation for Science. And, of course, this is all just a prelude to that key project that awaits us, which is the new Law on Science and Higher Education. Minister Fuchs is truly happy and can be grateful that he is in such a government, with such a consolidation of power and burden on corruption affairs that no one thinks about his actions. And so he can actually do whatever he wants. Of course, there are some parliamentary deputies here at 8 p.m. to discuss this proposal and we have made amendments to finally stop this silent march on independent institutions. However, because of everything that he can smile about when he looks at other fellow ministers right now in the government, I regrettably have to conclude that there is not enough public sensitivity to even seriously discuss what is going on with the system of science and all the problems it is facing. And I won't even be so ambitious as to go towards what no one else will question, which is what they are. corrections by the previous minister and her projects in the 13 million kuna Life School where the money was allocated by hand and hat without public competitions for jobs that we will ultimately pay for, rather than the EU funds from which we should have drawn those funds. The Croatian scientific community is now being blackmailed by the money that we need to draw from the Recovery and Resistance fund, although they should only be consequences, not the condition for our scientific action, nor are we now allowed as a scientific community to press against the wall to bring about harmful changes to the Law on Science and Higher Education, and we will just talk about it. I will now return to this burden that prepares a quiet march on institutions, which is part of this Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Through the few amendments I have submitted, I will explain how to ensure what is key to what I am always warning about, and that is to remove policy from scientific institutions. Politics comes and goes and politics should always be criticised, and the scientific community should, through its independence, be one of the few social guarantees that this policy will have anyone questionable. No matter how badly you do your job sometimes, that possibility should always remain. Therefore, simply put, the ministry must keep its fingers off the scientific institutions. As far as art is concerned. 3 in which the Ministry of Science replaces the words of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where the rights and obligations of the founders are assumed, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should remain as a broader concept so that what is happening with the NCVVO would not happen, which is that the ministry again takes everything under its own criteria. To ensure the independence of scientific action from any political influence. As far as art is concerned. 4 and this mainly at international level, it is a concept that is certainly not well defined enough because it can mainly mean anything at international level, and it does not have to mean anything. When we say that these must be projects that are mostly international, then we're talking about what, what? 51% of projects must have an international review, so that's okay? Or it's someone's impression, so if we have 20%, that might be enough for the most part. It's not a weather forecast, the concepts in the law need to be clearly defined. If we're going to have international reviews, then I suggest that it be a formula whenever it comes to a project that can be reviewed internationally. So it's not mostly. It must be possible that there are projects for which it is not possible to obtain an international review, and these are projects concerning some specific national heritage, etc. Of course I can keep in mind and that we should encourage such research. However, for all other projects that participate in the international scene in the sense that there are international researchers involved in the same work, international reviews should indeed be obtained. In addition, the scientific community in the Republic of Croatia warned of this. As regards members of the Management Board of the Foundation, i.e. 8 Where HS is to be returned to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that part is accepted. However, there should also be high criteria of scientific excellence as criteria that we will always consider when we will choose members of the Management Board of the Foundation. As far as art is concerned. 18 and here we come to what I asked, and yet again, the roles of the Ministry, the supervision of the law of work and the conduct of the Foundation, I believe that we should return HS which, unfortunately so far, was not in a position to take it seriously, or did not want to take it seriously. Also, when we talk about financial business, let's keep it the Ministry of Finance. Of course, the goal of these amendments is only one, which is to allow as much independence as possible of scientific institutions, i.e. that one ministry that is politically appointed does not handle processes, key processes, especially financial nature, within what should be independent, which is Croatian scientific action. In earlier discussions, I warned a lot about the problems facing the Croatian Foundation for Science, not only the review process but also the whole review of the Croatian scientific community on what the Foundation is doing, and the lack of a strategic plan that we have been running late for four years, and science should supposedly be the engine of society, so our engine didn't even start, so I can't even say it failed. As for weaknesses and shortcomings, so we have problems that we are not involved enough in the European Research Area, that scientists indicate that they are long ago not being asked about the Foundation's work itself, extensive red tape, lack of personality in communication, arbitration transparency, absolute authority and pointless demands of the Foundation, I quote this from scientific research, these are just one of the comments that are objecting to the current work of the Foundation. What do you say in the end? I hope you adopt the amendments. I hope that the march that is increasingly loud to independent scientific institutions will stop, that we will not adopt harmful proposals of the Law on Science and Higher Education, and if you already, since you have most of these legislative changes without the adoption of the amendments, you will at least lead to such supervision that will finally allow us to have strategic plans and other things that have been neglected for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105964	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105965	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates. Between the two readings you adopted some of our suggestions that we gave you during the discussion in HS, I welcome that you adopted the fact that you explained more clearly what researchers really mean in art. 4th century 3. So that's where you've now defined that they're researchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral level. I also welcome the fact that you have aligned the term of office of the Board of Appeal with respect to all these other members of the Body of the Science Foundation. However, you yourself are aware that there is still a series of words and well-intentioned criticisms and suggestions that we should say to iron out in the very proposal of the law. What's in everyone's eyes is, of course, taking us away, so we can say autonomy in the work of the Science Foundation itself. In the first row, I'll start with an art class. 8th and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Foundation. This is where the article says. 8th century 2 that members of the Foundation's Management Board are appointed HS on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia remains the fact that they are selected from the ranks of scientists, especially those who have internationally recognised scientific papers, and that candidates for members of the Governing Board are elected or determined on the basis of proposals submitted by scientific institutes, higher schools, and the HAZU on the basis of a public call. What we certainly believe is that this should be done as is, in principle, chosen by the National Council, and we have seen that they do not respect the legal provisions, that they do not provide annual reports to the HS and the relevant parliamentary committee, and also on their websites do not respect the legal provisions, have no published records and reports from their sessions, and we fear that the same situation will be with the work of the Science Foundation. It is also not acceptable for us to appoint members on the government's proposal, so you're aware, you have this government, you have the ministries, you have a political option, you have in the assembly the same political option that's most of it, so we have political one-mindedness. We all know how members of the National Council are elected, by secret vote, also a public invitation to the Assembly Committee on Education and I see no problem why this could not be reflected in the members of the Board of Directors of the Foundation or I see it, and it is clear to me that the unpleasant experiences that we all have can say by the parliamentary representatives with the failure to comply with the legal provisions of the National Council in terms of non-response of the report, the answer to the request of the Committee after two months, etc., you do not want to see that as well as the work of the Management Board of Foundation, but I do not think that this is an excuse and that we should be devoided of political unanimity and that, on the basis of a public call, the Committee should choose members of the Foundation's board of directors board of directors. Furthermore, what's in the eyes, of course, is an art. 18, which we have already heard about the supervision of the legality of the work and the conduct of the foundation carried out by the Ministry of Science. It's clear to me again here that the intensity of both the minister and the associate that we want to have is something we can say, a lever and a strong hand that will actually oversee the entire work of the foundation which has not been the case so far, but I don't think this is a good way to go, especially when we're looking at what's already been mentioned that it's not, that it's late to adopt the strategic plan of the foundation for four years. and I don't really know, and we also saw that the minister has now put himself on board that he has to agree to this strategic plan because I really don't know how it's going to work because we all know that these are documents that are supposed to happen on an annual basis, and we see that he's late with the papers 4 years old, so I don't know if it's going to stop the whole work of the foundation, the whole work of calling public calls, project assignments, and ultimately stop what's the most important work of government and scientists and the whole system of scientific research projects. It's all visible and in the very report of the foundation that I'm going to refer to, and I'm going to repeat what I said and at the first reading what bothers me so far, and that's what we should be more seriously dealing with, and I'm aware that we can't do this with this legal proposal regarding the functioning of the foundation itself, but I think that we should all put it as a priority together, and that's a big dropout of our young scientists, a big dropout of students whose scholarships are funded from projects, and we all know that a large percentage of those who don't end up because of the obligations on the projects themselves where they don't often take on their own project proposals are meant to their senior mentors, experienced scientists, and that all of them belong to the back of young researchers, scientists who should be involved in their scientific research work, fulfilling their doctoral studies, and certainly are not in the same level as a doctoral position to do a lot of researching them, and not have to be able to be able to do a lot of doing a lot of researching a lot. The report itself shows that 660 doctors have been followed and 60 have been defended by dissertation that you must admit that it is a very small number, an executive indicator that we cannot be proud of. Also from the annual work of the foundation, it is evident that it came from a foundation project of an extremely small number of patents, only 3 patents, which I must say is not only a foundation's fault, it is the fault of an absolutely whole legislative framework in our country in terms of intellectual property. Scientists don't know how or how to protect it when they produce patents, and our legal regulations protect them enough. I therefore believe that even before the Law on the Foundation for Science was adopted, it was necessary to strengthen legislation that even addresses the issue of the protection of intellectual property of all indicators and the results resulting from valuable research projects and which are ultimately linked to the economy. I can agree somewhat with my colleague Bakic that the foundation should be primarily focused on the work of science, but yet I think that their indicators should be applicable in the economy itself and that is what we are missing chronically in Croatia. We have several positive examples, but we are chronically lacking in the connection of the scientific sector and the private sector, and we are here at the beginning of the EU when we look at how much our scientific institutes and universities are related to our private sector, and all this reflects with the needs of the labour market, I think we are all aware of that. What I would also like to warn you is that the foundation actually costs us 185 million kuna from the state budget. Why do I say cost? I think it's even too small for science, but I certainly think that we should include a little more European funds at our disposal, and I think that on the issue of the foundation, we can say one negative component so far. We pointed out that I mean all the political options on both the Committee itself and through the first reading that there are also Swiss funds that should be intended for Southeast Europe and our countries in the environment and their foundations are using it while we are really starting here and I don't have a clear plan and programme to pull out additional funds. Why am I saying all this? So I'm saying because there are great needs in science and education, it's visible from the amendments that we as advocates are submitted to the state budget, most of it actually comes from science and education, and maybe if we start using the funds for science from eu funds, we might be able to free up places for some projects that can't be used because I am responsiblely claiming as a person who knows somewhat the functioning of eu funds for 99% of the projects implemented under the foundation we can absolutely use 100% of the funding from eu funds. And you know yourself that science is more or less funded 100% when it comes to science institutes and universities from eu funds. The private sector when working in combination with universities and scientific institutions can receive up to some 75% support from eu funds, and I think that this foundation should be strengthened, that this should be highlighted in the very strategic plan of the Foundation's work, and that this is some focus that the foundation should give its own focus to in this way in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105966	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105967	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. I will remind you that the basic reasons for the adoption of the new Act on the Croatian Foundation for Science are existing legal regulations. The current law was passed in 2001. and certainly that this regulation is obsolete and does not regulate the system of science funding in such a way as to comply with all the requirements of the current Croatian current and Croatian but equally European research space. And I will also remind myself that the current law does not comply with the provisions of the Foundation Act and, of course, in this respect, appropriate harmonisation is also needed. And what may be important is just to repeat, although we have already been told, I will point out in this sense that this new law clearly defines, above all, the legal status of the foundation by the fact that it is prescribed who is exercising founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia for the Foundation, who exercises supervision of the legality of work and conduct and certainly supervision of the financial operations of the Foundation, founding rights and obligations in the name of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Finance, of course in accordance with specific regulations. What is important to stress is that the foundation will, in the early phase of its technological readiness, then through scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, certainly also of interest to develop the career of researchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral level and, of course, it is prescribed that the exact names of the programme will be established by a general act, by means of acts of trust, not by law. I will, of course, reiterate and emphasise that the foundation primarily promotes scientific excellence, and then what is very important, and I would like to stress this in particular, in times in which we live in accordance with the needs of Croatia and the situation in the European Research Area of the Foundation encourages competence in funding research of national but internationally recognised research topics. Of course, it is important that the Foundation promotes national and international cooperation and networking and what is very important that the process of evaluation of the projects that have arrived is independent above all, and then objective, impartial and transparent and based on scientific and professional review. Also, what I think is good is that I will remind myself that the current old law to express myself so requires that users of the foundation's support can be PhDs, after PhDs, scientists and scientific organisations, and this proposal requires that the beneficiaries of the foundation's financial resources can also be legal persons by making a contract with legal persons who are beneficiaries of financial resources. The names and tasks of the bodies are also in line with the Foundation Act. What I also find worthy of pointing out is that the establishment of a new expert body of the foundation, which is a committee for complaints which discusses complaints concerning any conflicts of interest, was an administrative or procedural error in the procedure, a procedure for the allocation of financial resources. The Foundation also runs business books, drawing up financial reports, of course, in accordance with the provisions of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. As I have already said in the replica to the proposing representative, I appreciate that the applicant has accepted a whole series of important suggestions both from the home Board on Education and Science and from the suggestions of individual parliamentary representatives and, of course, I will just point out some differences between the first and second readings of this law. The differences above all relate to amendments to Article 4 where the researcher's concept is more clearly defined. The same article was then completed by prescribing the Foundation’s objective. An evaluation is required to include a scientific and professional review mostly at the international level where I said there is an additional one, putting emphasis on international panels, I apologize. Similarly, Article 8 where a more clearly defined criterion is the selection of members of the Management Board of the Foundation. It is also further, I think it is a well-prescribed authority for the Vice-President of the Management Board of Foundations to call meetings in cases of the prevention of the president himself. What is good is consistent with the duration of the term of office of the members of the foundation body, i.e. in such a way that all members of the foundation body have a term of office for 4 years. As regards the strategic plan of the Foundation in Article 10, it is therefore clarified that the Croatian Assembly actually brings the strategic plan of the Foundation to the proposal of the Management Board, and yet with the agreement of the Ministry of Science. What is important is that the Management Board of the Foundations adopts a Regulation on the terms and procedures of the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation without prior consent of the Ministry of Science and, of course, what I consider to be important is a provision which provides for the possibility of objecting to the Board of Appeal and whether I do not know it because of conflicts of interest or because of administrative, procedural or any other errors. I therefore believe that this is indeed a qualitative improvement in terms of the transparency of the work of the foundation. Members of the Board of Appeals elects the Croatian Parliament, it is within the competence of the Croatian Parliament, it is good with additional criteria for the appointment of members of that body. More detailed and clear is the work and composition of scientific and professional committees, I think of Article 13 on its completion. And, of course, in Article 17, it is complemented, complemented by guidance, complemented by the provision of additional funds from which the trust can be financed. From everything I've listed, from all these amendments to the bill's proposal in the first reading, it's true that the motioner has accepted a whole series of remarks and suggestions from any members of the parent board, either as I have said to individual parliamentary representatives. I also believe that all these embedded remarks will qualitatively improve the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science and, in this sense, will also, as I said at the beginning of the HDZ Representatives Club, support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105968	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105969	Nice greeting to all, we can say good evening to the Honorable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, yes, science in Croatia, I'm not sure if it's an oxymoron but let's try to pretend it isn't, we have science in Croatia. But here and now that we're discussing the State Science Foundation, we're talking about a state-funded institution, and we know that the boss's house respects the rules and everything else would be unnatural. But let's at least try for a moment in these 10 minutes to separate politically from the scientific one. There is no need to interfere with each other especially when we read almost, so I can say andersen's statements such as paragraph 6. The evaluation of the proposal of scientific projects is independent, objectively, impartially and transparently, and includes a scientific and professional review mostly at international level. We welcome you from the bottom of our hearts. The evaluation process of the proposal for scientific projects shall be carried out by scientific and professional committees, independent and mainly international expert reviewers and trust services. Oh, how proud that sounds. Article 9, financial resources shall be allocated exclusively on the basis of public calls published on the Foundation's website. The summer view of the foundation's web pages tells us next. There are currently no open competitions for projects. In the spring of this year, a range of competitions are planned for research projects for all fields of science and without thematic constraints, which should pass. The tender will be launched under the VIV Initiative, so that project applications will be able to apply in two ways, in accordance with the already applicable rules for application projects in the research project programme or as a bilateral or trilateral consortium with researchers from Slovenia and Switzerland. The Croatian Science Foundation will serve as the leading agency carrying out a scientific evaluation to report bilateral or trilateral project applications. The same projects will be fully implemented under the rules of competition research projects. In addition, calls are expected to be made during 2022. According to the rules and procedures of the NPOO. More information on calls and tendering for documentation will be published later. The planned calls are in 4 rare, imobility programme, development and research support, the development of young researchers' careers and targeted scientific research. We have to stop here for a moment from this fantastic fountain of knowledge and skill to ask what is true and what are the sciences for which Croatia has decided that they are crucial to us, that they are important to us and that we will build on them the development of Croatia or the financial progress of our entire nation in some period was within a year, 5 or 20 years, whether it will be social sciences, whether it will be semantics, philology, whether we will deal with history, or whether we will try to motivate those people we ourselves see today to create their own lives, create a Croatian future regardless of whether they involve any Croatian declaration of science, Croatian government or any of us here in HS in any way. We have to ask that question ourselves. The Management Board of the Foundation shall be referred to further in Article. 5th century 2. makes its own decisions on programmes and the allocation of financial resources in accordance with this law and the general acts of the Foundation. I may even leave that to the end, so I'm going to move on to another menu that's very interesting about how the board of directors is elected, or what competences should be. Competences should be an exceptional publication, expertise, and, of course, let's say almost a fanatical love of scientists in Croatia in the person who will lead this foundation. I repeat again, by flying insight into the Hrčak web portal I found one of the only registered work of Mr. Ruzhinski, Mr. President, as co-author of 1995. on this ‘Our sea’. The work is about pollution of coastal waters. Equally with a flight inspection now after the replica and speech I flew to Hrcko and I saw that the respected secretary of state has four times more registered applications in the HRČAK system than the current chairman of the Management Board of Foundations, so four hundred times more competent to act in that capacity. The fact, I'm sorry, very simple and easily available. Without, of course, wanting to disrupt peace or disrupt the character and work of the respected Mr. Ruzhinski once again, 95% is the percentage of which the Croatian state budget finances the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science. I suppose, or not, this kind of foundation survives on the market, but in some country that would also leave it in the same market, it puts it in the hands of people who would choose to invest in scientists and, of course, get profit from the results of their scientific works, that we don't all work for money. Are there any mecenities that would invest in the development of Croatian science in Croatia today? We have to admit it's very difficult to answer that question with the word yes. Our mecenaries withdrew money before they were 30 years old, bought companies and today almost no one is even here in Croatia. So what we can conclude, let no one be angry, let them not think that the House of Homeland Movement Club has anything to do with the development of Croatian science, because even at the moment I'm saying this, even though it's eight o'clock in the evening, and now there are certain people, there must not necessarily be young people who learn, who are doing, who write their seminarical, doctoral or any works and their hats down, but such a foundation, such as it is without a grudge and do not be angry with the relic of some past times. With its organisational structure unbreakably connected to the state, however deep that same state is, the same foundation is incurably ill without the penicillin budgets and will always be a factor of discord, and this is a constant struggle for supremacy between the two worlds of the divided interest group. So, let me ask politely, in the name of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, if you are not only in the foundation, but also all of you Croatian scientists really behave in accordance with the principles of scientific reputation and integrity, spare us the act and persuasion of anyone's scientific and human integrity, especially in front of the knots full of money from Croatian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105970	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representatives Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105971	I thank the chairman. Dear secretaries and associates here are dear 6, 2, 4, 6 and I am the seventh, 6 colleagues, we are talking today about the Foundation Act, the Croatian Foundation for Science. I'm going to take a look at this at the beginning of my colleague Dretar who, in his introduction, somehow, put all the scientists in the same basket. He says, speaking of whether science in Croatia is oxymoron. So you put in the same basket and those scientists who have worked hard their entire lives, properly doctored, were excellent, posted internationally recognized results and successes, and those who, for example, plagiarized their PhDs and, in effect, disgraced themselves and institutions. After all, you know that I also requested a thematic session, for example. on the status or state of the University of Osijek precisely because I think that the recent events have caused them great reputation damage. It's a shame to all those hardworking scientists, the employees who work at that university and all those hardworking students who study neatly and valuablely at that university, and in some ways they've been put in a position to be ashamed today if they're said to be at that institution. I need to read this open letter which was signed by the Prime Minister, Minister of Science, Education and the Croatian Assembly 335, so it signed at the beginning, 69, but at the end of the 335 scientists signed precisely because in the assembly during the debate at the first reading some things were said about the work of the foundation that they, they want to deny. I've already read that letter in free speech once, but here I want to and I need to have that open letter and hear and citizens who are watching this debate and remain in writing with this debate. Thus, it was said in the assembly that the work of the foundation was burdened with conflict of interest, biased evaluation, inability to object, with the absence of final reports and poor flexibility. I'm reading this and quoting that open letter. We participated in the Foundation's work as independent experts in evaluation panels in certain fields of science, where the main tasks of the panel were to evaluate project proposals and ensure the implementation of their evaluation. Since we have participated and participated in the work of the foundation, we need to react to the inaccuracies presented during the parliamentary debate, so on each item. On the conflict of interest, before accessing data on the project, each panelist signed 2 documents under full responsibility, a statement of non-permanent conflict of interest and a declaration of confidentiality of information. Also, if scientists applied for their projects on the tender deadline, they could not participate in the work of the panel. The members of the Management Board have been unable to apply for trust projects throughout their term of office. We consider such a pattern of action when it comes to preventing conflict of interest at a high level and in line with similar scientific foundations in developed countries. The second programme that was listed, biased evaluation. According to projects received, panelists who were not in conflict of interest assessed the scientific quality of the applicant and its project. The panels were dependent on the scientific field and up to a dozen experts from the relevant scientific fields. The project's notifiers have been assessed primarily according to published scientific publications i.e. by the quality of the journals in which they published works and the contribution of the promoters to these works. The decision to refer to the review was based on the scientific excellence of candidates and the project proposal. Each panelist proposed two or more potential international reviews according to the project theme. Due to the poor response of international reviewers who could not be honored to review applications for review, several experts were sent, and the first two reviews were the basis for making recommendations on the financing of the project. When cross-examination of international experts was obtained before the panel's decision, an additional third reviewer was requested. Such reviewing is common in similar international institutions and respects the most scientific standards. Next problem, inability to object. Unsatisfactory project promoters had the possibility of objecting and using it, and the complaints were discussed by members of the panel and informed of their arguments and proposals, the decision was informed by the Management Board. We understand that the applicants of the rejected projects have found it difficult to take a negative decision but should bear in mind that the percentage of rejected projects in most foreign scientific foundations and over 90% which is significantly more stringent than in the selection process of the foundation. The process of breakthrough should be recognised and allocated to the best candidates and projects we have tried to do in the best possible way. Project reporting. Accepted projects have been implemented for the most part for 4 years. After each year, the leaders submitted a periodic report on the implementation of the approved work plan. The financing of the next project year depended on a positive assessment of the reports for the previous year. A final report was submitted at the end of the project. The reports contained descriptive indications of all elements of the project, the list of published works, the number of defence doctorates and other relevant data relating to the project. In addition to the report on scientific results, an extremely detailed financial report was submitted, and the project costs had to be supported by accounts until the last June. It should be noted that the progress reports of the project were evaluated by two independent experts who also listed a statement of lack of conflicts of interest and on keeping the confidentiality of data. Finally, the financial scientific reports were very demanding and transparent. A poor reaction to the pandemic, contrary to the Foundation, has issued a recommendation to all independent experts involved in monitoring the project to take into account the difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic and earthquakes in Zagreb and Banovna, which is in practice and respected. The following responsiblely argues that the work of the foundation was transparent and in the best interest of Croatian science, and that the financial resources were allocated according to clear previously published criteria, the best project proposals for leaders with the best scientific achievements. They say further in the letter, the proposal for a new fund law introduces systematic changes in the functioning of the foundation which violates the independence of a key institution that finances Croatian science from the executive government. The independence from politics, however, is the basic principle of the functioning of similar foundations in the most developed countries. We believe that members of the Management Board, as so far, should be appointed to the Assembly on the proposal of key scientific institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The appointment should be according to the criteria of scientific excellence that apply to the world's most developed countries, and this is not precisely worked out in the new bill. In the parliamentary debate, we were particularly concerned about a statement that did not necessarily require an international review of the proposals for all projects. This would mean the introduction of extremely bad practices that should certainly be avoided because it can be an introduction to the intransparency of the allocation of funding for science in the Republic of Croatia. We therefore call on you to ensure that the new Foundation Act ensures the independence and continuity of the operation of the Foundation without political influence and thus ensuring that members of the Management Board and all expert bodies of the Foundation are selected exclusively according to the high criteria of scientific excellence by complying with the standards of the most developed countries and the second by retaining the international review of projects as a mandatory part of the selection process. It should be borne in mind that the foundation is the main source of funding for science in the Republic of Croatia, so the circumvention of scientific excellence criteria in the work of the foundation would endanger the funding of the most capable scientists and would encourage many excellent experts to leave Croatia. The current functioning of the foundation has been in line with the most advanced scientific systems, and the new bill that puts the work of the foundation under the control of politics, and the criteria of scientific excellence in the selection of expert bodies are clearly and explicitly not mentioned. So a big step back, we urge you not to take that step. And in signature, so 335 scientists. So the foundation that works independently according to the criteria of excellence is a step forward compared to the period before the foundation even existed when the ministry allocated money to projects. So there is no way that even scientists can say for themselves in this letter that they should not return under the Ministry under direct control of politics. Therefore, regardless of who the founder is, the control of action must be based on criteria and left to scientists. It means an independent institution that the founder can impose only on the basic framework of the activity of unconventional implementation of interference in professional criteria. Another note this for a few seconds. There is no mention, therefore, of the Board of Appeals, but there is no mention of the so-called. an ethical commission that would evaluate and evaluate projects according to the ethical principles of au science. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105972	Next is the debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105973	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry. While colleagues before me focused mainly on details about the foundation itself, I will focus more on its field of action, on science. Croatia is a small country, our production industry is on its knees, the amount is practically negligible. But we are also a country that has the potential of knowledge that every country has in its children, students, scientists. This potential needs to be properly adjusted because it is the only way that it can be the greatest driving force of this society. And when we recall some data from the recent census and remember the devastating data that comes to us from various measurement scales in the EU, then we must be aware that our only remaining asset for a better future is education and special science. Because just as we are recognizable as a tourist and sports country, we have the potential to be recognized as a country where science is appreciated and in which science flourishes, and we can only do so if we start to value it and if we invest in science as much as in tourism or sports, and instead we stop Doctors of science that in no other country, we could not possibly be in any way. A few years ago, a high school student based on his successes but also filled his views with newspaper lines. The most successful Croatian high school student then decided not to want to study in Croatia because he simply does not have to, because he is so good that he has other options and did not think that he would conclude that other options are better than those offered by science in Croatia. I quote his statement: “In Croatia, a good student is considered one who can sum up fractions. In Cembridge, even the Olympics sleep if they're not good enough and have to learn more. I wanted to be in such an environment encouraging and challenging." When asked if Croatian education adequately prepared him for a study at Cambridge, he replied: "Croatian education does not. I came all the way here for what I was learning myself and for the knowledge I won in the competitions. This is the first year we do things in Croatia only on the second and third. My formal high school education that I received in Croatia would not have prepared me for it." This was all said by the conqueror of 9 Olympic medals, more than and one Croatian athlete, and I believe there is not one person present here even though we are not many who can remember his name. And he's not the only one. There's a lot of our best people who estimate that our scientific world is not the best for them. And they usually end up at a few of the same universities around the world. Now, if someone wanted to and thought it was important, maybe they could talk to our scientists and figure out what's better on those other scientific institutions. Perhaps at some incredible moment of lucidity and desire for a positive change he would apply these knowledge to the Croatian world of science if he wanted to. Because it is obvious that not only those who must flee from Croatia, because their existence here is threatened. The Croatians are also able to escape from Croatia because they have earned an opportunity and it is clear to them that although they could live well in Croatia somewhere else they can live much better and are much better at doing what is best for quality education and life devoted to science, it is crystal clear to them that in Croatia education and science are not worth it, that education and science are not invested and that education and science are not accounted for. Yesterday I was on a roundtable on demographics organised by my club Social Democrats listening to all the causes of negative demographic trends in Croatia. This was talked about by renowned and proven experts and scientists, and they have proposals for a solution, presented them yesterday as they have been for many years both to the ruling and to everyone who wants to listen, but no one takes them into account, no one listens to science, and as a result we continue to fail. At the beginning of the covid epidemic I encountered an interesting cartoon, two scientists standing over the microscopes while anxiously behind them and eagerly waiting for representatives of different religions. There was a vaccine waiting, and the text below the cartoon was "All religions in the world are looking forward to a solution from science". In short, when it comes to our lives, we rely on science. It would be good if we were always so aware of the importance and strength of science. Research, development, innovation, that's what opens the door to a safe future, that's what needs to be made possible and evaluated in the scientific world. Let us remember the threefold Helix who puts the simplest said industry, state and science or the quadruple Helix, which adds civil society to the story, when all these parts work well then we have both quality innovations and quality entrepreneurship and the development of society. But unfortunately, none of this works in any way. In the end, I'll mention the following because it doesn't matter. I read today an article that begins with the title "Ivan Đikić received the scientific Oscar for the third time in a row, this is a top-notch success and a great rarity", the article ends with the words "Leopoldine is a German Academy of Science and Arts, and recently the American Academy of Science and Arts", I add that this Croatian science is obviously one of the best and most reputed scientists of today is not a member of both the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, not guilty and is not the only one. It has been centuries since scientists in the field of Croatia who have entrusted the world, but at some point for some reason we have completely changed direction, we are no longer a country where scientists can act and develop our society and contribute to the well-being of the state. We're a country where scientists escape or are driven away. Only citizenship and today we inherit names that are very relevant in world science, but unfortunately they work within universities and scientific institutions in foreign countries, those where there is no plagiarizer of scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105974	Next is an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105975	Good evening, everyone. It wouldn't be hard to count. First of all, I will repeat what is crucial, we cannot agree with the transfer of founding rights from the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry because it endangers the independence of the work of the Foundation and not that it is inconsistencies but is contrary to the basic principles in the work of such institutions in all advanced countries. Transferring the strategic plan to the Assembly is not sufficient correction compared to the proposal that was in the first reading. We cannot agree either with the abandonment of excellence as a basic criterion for the selection of board members and scientific and professional committees. Not some abstract excellence but real excellence that is proven in the published results and works in top-of-the-line world magazines, running prestigious competitive projects and participating in evaluation procedures in competitions for competitive international projects. I'm going to skip a part of my exposure and try to take a moment of my time and something that actually got me kicked out of Glamuzima's exposure, so I'm going to go to art. The 12th to describe the newly introduced panel of objections. This is important news, this commission will have five members, it is said to be scientists, but there are no criteria of excellence here either. And what may actually be even more important, now it is no longer clear what the commission will serve. In the first version of the law, it was intended to resolve complaints in a metric, objecting to whether a project proposal was of sufficient quality. When it was realized that five people, however valuable they were, could not measure the quality of each proposal precisely in every scientific discipline, then the final text now says that this commission will only consider possible conflicts of interest, administrative and procedural, which I think means procedural objections. And the real question is, and who will then consider complaints in the metrics, complaints claiming that the project proposal is excellent and not recognised as such. Apparently, the need for such an instance was the motivation to lead this body, I think something on that trail was said by the secretary of state because so far these objections have been solved by each panel in its own discipline as quoted by counterpart Puljak in this open letter by 69 scientists. What will be further adopted such a legal provision is completely unclear. Hand to heart a real problem with not accepting project proposals I would say did not exist because not accepting certain project proposals in competitive competitions just as well as not accepting scientific papers for publication in the most prestigious magazines is an integral part of the scientific eco system, is an integral part of our careers. We scientists have to live in such a system because it's just about paradoxical, our contribution to the preservation of criteria and overall progress. I'm not gonna make it, but good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in each chapter of the NPOO, there are some standard headings, subtitles such as green dimension, digital dimensions, cross-border dimensions, then principles of no significant damage. It is said that these amendments and additions to the Foundation Act were needed to make more effective use of NPOO funds. It may be so, but at the beginning we have a problem because this one of the above principles is seriously violated, namely, in its present form, it causes significant damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105976	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105977	Here's a respected colleague, I actually wanted to ask you, together here we've been commenting on the part where the respected secretary talked about how technology projects don't need this here is why that part of the mostly international, international review why they don't need to know less about technology projects, so it doesn't matter that they're being reviewed internationally. Here's what, what do you think about whether it's a good practice and actually how it's defined in the law right now, is whether there's going to be a variety of interpretations, so here's the esteemed secretary who's going to interpret it in his own way, and some other scientists are going to interpret it in their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105978	Thank you. Well, I think I've actually answered that question of yours before in that first show on behalf of the club, but I'll do it again. Now I'm going to do it again, and actually, from my personal, personal discourse as a scientist, and I'm going to say it in secret as a scientist who published in top-of-the-line world magazines, I'm going to participate in the evaluations of proposals for scientific projects in other countries, etc. Yeah, I think it's absolutely necessary in the assessment of all project proposals in each round, in every competition to have international commissions. I think it's absolutely necessary, that it's the only way, that it's the only way in which, the only way that our science can actually advance, exist, participate in world scientific flows, everything else, every compromise on that side I think leads not only to stagnation but also to reverse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105979	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. On behalf of the final debate, the first club of HDZ MPs respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105980	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's only three sentences. I can't be as ironic as some colleagues and colleagues here and I find it incorrect for those who have made this law and I believe that the secretary of state and all its associates have made this law in their best interest and I will also say that it is not correct if in Croatia we have 16 thousand scientists here to be considered relevant, it can be said, but that one fifty-fifty will be the one to determine 16 thousand scientists really is wrong, and especially if most of these 300 scientists have received this support from the Croatian Foundation for Science. I am not going to quote certain laws here, I just want to say that I believe that this foundation will bring full legal certainty, quality and transparent financial policy according to scientific projects and that this will actually meet the purposes of young scientists to stay here in Croatia and to achieve their scientific goals. I think it's better to do and offer certain things, so make a mistake than not to do anything, and also to suffer criticism, means to make mistakes, change, but don't ever accept what I'm not going to do, so I'm going to suffer the same criticism. The HDZ Club gives full support to this proposal for the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105981	We have a final debate on behalf of the motionary, respected Secretary of State Ivica Sušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105982	Honorable Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. I'll be brief since I know you've had a long and hard day's work. I'd like to try to circle this personally given the impression that it is. There is no legal text, there is no constitution, there is no law, there is no regulation, no regulation, a sublegal act that will change social relations if our practice and our conduct will not bear self-responsibility, self-control in front of citizens, because we have both good and bad legal texts and good and bad sublaws. I am afraid that the debate has forgotten that the foundation is an institutional form, an institutional form which according to a special regulation, or a special fund law where all foundations must be established with it, it organises the achievement of the objectives and purposes of the Foundation, but only through the assignment, collection and distribution of assets, in this case most of the assets of the Croatian Foundation for Science come from the state budget, so the money of Croatian taxpayers and it is imperative and a dictatorship that there must be control and control of the purpose of the work not putting under politics, opposition, ruling etc. but simply every citizen of the Republic of Croatia deserves to control the legality and purpose of the foundation. I have with me a full comparative analysis of the existing Foundation Act and this final proposal of the legal text. When it comes to the founder of the foundation in the current law, which is... The Foundation of the Republic of Croatia, and the final draft of the law states that the founder of the Foundation of the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, is responsible for science. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the question of the Board of Objections which has the right and the pre-determined framework to decide on conflict of interest, on procedural or procedural objections. If you call a public tender, if you call a public call and share state money, then you must provide legal protection for all those who apply to that public call and that public tender, the alphabet of law. That's never existed before. I have repeatedly discussed on committees, and in front of this high house, I have mentioned that there has been an illegal extension of the term of office of members of the board of directors of the foundation because they themselves have extended the term of office until the appointment of a new board of directors, and the Foundation Act, the Science Foundation, says that the term of office of members of the Management Board of the Foundation is 4g. and nothing to anyone. Furthermore, the question of science, the question of the scientific excellence of international criteria must exist because it will not meet the purpose of the Foundation. If the strategic programme of the foundation comes before this high house, it must specify the parameters in which and how the objectives of the foundation will be achieved. The question of criteria as a frequently mentioned question in the previous debate, that I may not be longer, and I will also end up with elections or appointments. No legal text laying down criteria for the appointment of members of a collective body provides for such detailed conditions or criteria that potential candidates for members must meet. This is primarily the responsibility of the foundation body and ultimately the self-government and autonomy of the foundation itself that it must fulfil in order to prescribe its own statute, and until now, more detailed criteria have been laid down in the statute of foundations, the comparison of the existing law with the new law speaks to the advantage of the new final bill on the development of criteria where, as an additional criterion with scientific excellence and international visibility, the experience in project management, the experience in evaluation and monitoring of projects, which was also one of the objections and the results of research carried out with the World Bank. I'd stick around, see if there's a replica, so here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105983	Here's a replica of the respected representative Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105984	You know what it says from window number five, I'm going to choose the theme that the foundation of most of its own, which is already said by my colleague Sanja, the foundation of most of its assets actually draws from the state budget. Is there therefore a chance that it should go in some other way not to be 95% of the funding from the state budget but to be encouraged in any way to look at not only European funds and various funds, there are sources of funding in Europe which I think and that as a Croatian municipality we are investigating, but can the foundation become an example, so some funding is also out of the state budget? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105985	Thank you very much. Definitely by changing the entire financial regulatory system, I believe that there will be conditions and the birth of new economic-related foundations, but, above all, significant funds from European funds are foreseen, but they mean respect for strict rules and criteria for the distribution of money. Unfortunately, we have examples of bad practices here, one of these may be the often mentioned scientific centres of excellence and the way money is shared or the way of funding. The European Commission is good at insisting on the sharing of money and the monitoring of the distribution of money the way in which it is shared with respect to all these criteria of international scientific excellence, but then the issue of public calls is the question of accessibility for all to apply for the competition and then also to follow it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-27-0.u105986	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. by proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Procedural Procedure, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 264. Here, good night, everybody. The session was interrupted in 20.49 hours.
