ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u82944	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here... I talked about some topics that were crucial for the first time in HS a few days ago I spoke about Ukraine explicitly in this highest home of the Croatian people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see that today some colleagues from the ruling majority have started to talk about it so much more courageously and if I have to say that my colleague Kapulica talked about it after me. A colleague who spoke earlier made it extremely clear that HS is the highest home of the Croatian people and that key decisions are being made here on the issue of foreign policy and on the issue of HR participation in potential military actions. Decisions are made here on Croatian membership in various international associations. I'd like you here from now on, I'm telling the ruling majority to be a little braver, to be a little braver, and to make up your mind, to encourage the Declaration of Ukraine to come to light on the day, hurry up. If you have taken this into consideration, hurry up, and if you have not considered it. Here I encouraged you not today but a few days ago. So the declaration actually has one simple content, which is to recognise territorial integrity, integrity, inviolability of territory to us friendly Ukraine. I'm not talking about war, I'm not talking about sending soldiers, but I'm talking about a simple fact that we as the highest home of Croatian people have to say about this key problem if you don't want to, I'm going to suggest it already, and it's ready, you know, so here's who will if the chairman or president of the assembly wants to come on the agenda, he'll come. But we don't have time to wait, let's not calculate, don't calculate, but let's put it in the process and loudly and clearly without twisting, let's say our position on this key topic. So it's not about sending soldiers anywhere, it's about our position on the territorial integrity of a European country to us friendly countries. We have different statesmen in Europe, we have an Orban running like Putin a few days ago. We have a Milanovic who makes strange statements like he's a clerk in the Kremlin. We have one general view of the EU that we are on the side of Ukraine in this potential or conflict that has already begun. But Croatia, or Croatian, will be the attitude of this home. So it's not the government or the president's position, but the final position gives us this home. And let's not be afraid or afraid to bring that document here for discussion, so let's see who's where. On the other hand, what I have already said, I will repeat again, we are members of the NATO Pact, we are members of the EU. These associations bring us something good, something bad, but we're a member of those associations. As long as we are part of these associations, we must obey and obey the rules that exist there. If we don't like to talk about it, let's leave those associations. I'm not up for it, but if we're here, then let's be consistent. Let's be a real ally because we also signed an alliance agreement. I would still end this speech in a slightly different tone. I hope so, and I believe there will be no war. And I urge both the Russians and the Ukrainians to prepare for this coming season. Let them come to our blue Adriatic, let them be our guests. And in the meantime, we're getting ready for the tourist season, but we're getting ready for the worst scenario, and let's not forget who we gave our hand to, whose allies we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u82977	Let's move on, now it's time for the House's Attorneys' Club to speak on behalf of a respected colleague, Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u82978	I thank Mr. President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, we see lately that the pandemic narrative is changing around the world that ordinary people are already getting up against these extraordinary measures imposed in recent years, and we can expect it to continue anyway. I'll mention Canada, we all see what's going on in that country, the journalists here recently rebelled that the president's office isn't answering where the President of the Republic is, they're asking the question where they are, where they are, and we can see that the Canadian Prime Minister has been at an unknown location for several days now, and there's no telling where they are. So I think it's all expected in some way, people are tired and I can personally testify that the last days I've never received so many calls from concerned parents who see that these experts who take care of the pandemic in Croatia don't change the board, they don't adapt to the situation. Now they're talking about a new vaccination program, and I got an answer from Mr. Capak the other day. On the issues of concerned parents, they sought the right to answer some questions on the basis of information, and here for the sake of the public, I will read what my colleague Capak answered them. So, there is no, these are his words, there is no study and research on the health consequences of testing children once or more a week. Then, there is no study and research on the impact of long-term and repeated self-testing on emotional, mental and mental development and children’s health. It's from a colleague of Capak's. So we can no doubt conclude that our children may be the greatest victims of this pandemic. Their childhood, growing up will be marked by wearing masks, various measures where they are actually alienated from their peers and we don't really know to the end which will be long-term consequences, and certainly won't be good. Why is this all happening and why does the pandemic not change in Croatia? I will provide once more information that the EU has ordered 4.6 billion doses of vaccines on behalf of all of us by 2023. So I'm going to repeat 4.6 billion doses. This includes children about 10 doses for each person, each of the EU's inhabitants, and the question is who are they going to vaccinate and how many doses. Here they have such an approach, and it is not by chance that the pressure on Ursula von der Leyen, the head of the European Commission, is increasing to publish messages between himself and the main man of Pfizer. She's been refusing to release it to the media for days. It's one big affair in Brussels where we see that rightly many are looking for insight into that information. In what way and what in the name of all of us she arranged with, with Phizzer. And that is very important, so people need to know not only does conflict of interest and corruption happen in our country, unfortunately, it happens at the highest levels of the EU. Even EU membership will not save us unfortunately from these phenomena, it is obvious. So the further away they are from ordinary people, the greater the attack to be abused. So once again I will say the position of the Homeland Movement is on the freedom of choice, of right, of objective information and we appeal to enter into a constructive dialogue with concerned parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83036	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives will speak to the esteemed colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83037	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Croatians are one of the few people in the world who has two countries, Croatia as a national state of Croatian people, and BiH where we are a constituent people. Looking through history when our ancestors moved into these areas, at 7:00 p.m. For centuries, both today's territory of Croatia and today's BiH were inhabited. Croatian rulers also began from the first Croatian king Tomislav who was crowned in the Danube field, through Peter Krešimir IV, to the last national ruler of Peter Svačić or Snačić, they also ruled the BiH area today. The Bosnian rulers of the company Kokoromanic also ruled over parts of today's Croatia during certain periods, but I must point out that it is the rulers of Christians, largely members of the Croatian national being. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, bananas were created, in '39. Finally, Banovina Croatia, which included a large part of BiH, where the Croats then made up the majority. In the Socialist Yugoslavia, BiH became a separate federal republic, and in 1991 it became a private federal republic. The population of Croats in BiH was 17.3%. Although they were the fewest people precisely thanks to the Croats in February of '92. A referendum on BiH's independence on the basis of which BiH has become an internationally recognised state. It was the Croats, the Bosnian-Herzegovic Croats who first stepped in BiH's defence as their countries against high-serb pretensions and large-serb aggression at times when some said it wasn't their war. Just thanks to HVO and HV, and military redistribution actions of Cincar, Winter of '94, Summer of '95, Maestral and South Move were freed from large parts of BiH, and that is why BiH has maintained its viability as an internationally recognised state. The Republic of Croatia is also a signator of numerous peace agreements, so let's remember the Washington Agreement that created the Federation of Bosniaks and Croats, but which also meant to be a confederate between the Federation and the Republic of Croatia. Let's also remember the Dayton Peace Agreement establishing a lasting peace in BiH, and BiH is divided into two entities with three constituent nations, Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. Today, here's almost 22 years old. of the Dayton Agreement, Croats are all but an unconstitutional people in BiH. We are turning into a national minority, losing the number of rights guaranteed to us, so that Croatians do not have a national TV channel in their own language today, Croatians are almost unable to choose their representative in the BiH presidency anymore because they are made by Bosniaks. The Croats lost some 250 to 300,000 inhabitants and today, according to statistics, only 15%, but it is probably much lower. And these last negotiations in Neum have shown that Croats are completely marginalised as a people who should have equal rights along with Bosniaks and Serbs. And that is why we need to talk openly about what the Republic of Croatia needs to take and talk openly about some topics that many politicians do not want to talk about, and that is that it is high time for Croatia as co-signator of the Dayton Agreement to seek revision of the agreement. Croats need and must get their entity in BiH. Only through its own federal unit within BiH will the Croats survive as a nation for the next 50, 100 and 200 years, and BiH will survive as a functioning state, not as now an international protectorate living on the apparatus of international institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83096	Thank you very much. We are going to the 10th debate of a respected colleague, Hajdukovic, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83097	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about this pay phone over the past few weeks since the publication of the census on demographics, about the need to have more children, about the need to have large families, about the need to be demographically restored. And so I have to say that I'm surprised that here I am only the tenth debate in a row, that no one has touched a single question that has become very current these days, or these days is being updated and that can eventually end up for certain children. In fact, in all of Croatia with the exception of Zagreb, Sinagis is missing from children's Palcics. You all know who the Thumbs are, that they are premature or prematurely born children, and this medicine is given to babies preventively due to possible respiratory infections. I'm just going to remind you of a coronary virus that is one, not possibly a respiratory virus, but it can affect the respiratory system, and we're in a pandemic of the same. I'll read to you what a mother from Zadar said to an internet portal, quote. My child was born at 27th week in Split. It was on the respirator, and so was the incubator. Somewhere in October, the baby began to receive Synagis, we were told it was necessary due to respiratory infections during the winter period, especially during the flu season and cold. He was supposed to take the medicine from October to April, in Split, a friend like me, before, and her child was given the same medicine and told her not to come, that there was no medicine. I called the hospital and asked more questions about what I heard. I was told he could take another dose on January 27th. Namely, they've set a few more doses for the risk groups that my child's in. After that, the dose is gone. If anything changes, they said they'd pick up. One dose of the medicine costs about 6.5 thousand kuna, but we can't even buy it because it's simply not allowed for natural persons. The end of the quote. Put yourself in the position of this mother who said she's insulating herself, that she's not going anywhere, that no one's coming to her because she's afraid of the crown and that such an infection to this little thumb of hers could be fatal. But her child has to go to school, can't keep him out of school, has an older daughter. I ask you then, in the absence of a cure, what will happen, God forbid, if your daughter gets infected with the crown at school and brings her home, and the child doesn't receive the medicine that is necessary? These are medicines that are only given in the hospital where the child was born, these are KBCs, we have 4 in Split, Rijeka and Zagreb and Osijek. The medicine is not available in Rijeka, it is not available in Osijek, it is only in Zagreb, so the whole of Croatia is left without the mentioned medicine except Zagreb. The mother from Zadar whose statement I read to you said she didn't want to look for the guilty, she didn't want to point fingers, she just wants a cure for her child. I can understand her as a mother, but I'm gonna point the finger and look for the guilty one. How can this drug disappear? How can it happen that there is only one in Zagreb? Or might Croatians and Croats live in Zagreb, while in other parts of Croatia they are less privileged? Slavonia's empty anyway, so why do we need it there? How can we talk about demographics, and this important cure for little thumbs just disappear? Well, colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the ruling responsibility I see here, must stand by your words for this speaker. If we care about demographics, then we care about things like this, and that's why I call on Minister Beroš from this pay phone, as well as everyone responsible to get the medicine as soon as possible, because the drug supply, the absence of the medicine can take away one young life, take away one too much, can carry more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83165	Thank you, too. We're going to the 13th debate, dear colleague Mrak Taritash on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83166	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the results of the census, i.e. the key number of us in Croatia, have raised quite a storm in the first place, and it is certain that there will be a topic for a long time, but if we want to be smart and use this data to make us feel better, then we must not sit and cry over the results and missed opportunities. What's most important now is how to turn things around for the better, how to ensure that the state works for us in the future. One of the facts that the census only further confirmed is that we are not enough. We are not enough for our economy, our labour market, health and pension systems to be stable and sustainable. There is not enough of us to make any progress in our economy and will get out of this last EU donkey bench that we have been sitting in for too long and too long. The situation is that in many activities we have a chronic lack of workforce. A few years ago, it seemed like science fiction to everyone, and now we're in this situation. We're running out of labor. What worries me is that the government is doing nothing. No plans, no policies or projects to solve this problem. In Croatia the most missing cleaners, chefs, waiters, truck drivers and buses, construction workers, small craftsmen and sellers. The problem is particularly expressed throughout the coast, which belongs to European regions with the greatest labour shortage. New sources of deficits related to the climate neutral future and the European Green Plan are also on the pier. In particular, it will suffer production, construction, transport, professional and scientific activities, tourism, agriculture and education, energy, IT industry, etc., etc. Wherever you bury, employers complain that people are missing. We have the biggest crisis in tourism and construction. The assessment of the Croatian Tourism Association is that we lack 5,000 workers in the hotel and 10,000 workers in the catering industry. And construction that I don't speak at all. One of the key issues in the recovery after the earthquake is who will do it in the first place, where workers who can perform the work worth tens of billions of kunas. What Croatia urgently needs is a migration strategy. Not only immigration, but migration as a whole, because one of the problems we have is the departure of young and educated people. It's not clear to me that it's still at work. While in hotels near the city of Zagreb, we regularly have events at which, for example, German employers are making mass talks and agreements with nurses, which we do during that time. The other thing that we also need urgently is the use of what is available to us but not used. Active working inactive population. Ensure programmes that really give results, invest more in lifelong education, prevent early retirement and better coordinate education and the labour market. I've got us a little bit, the population is old, our growth is negative, and it just won't work anymore. Our economy will remain underdeveloped, and our pension and health systems will be even poorer than they are now. And with all due respect but a thorough change of that trend on that 30-year-old illusion about the return of emigrants is unserious. Let's stop fooling ourselves. The answers that the government must urgently give in the form of some concrete and quick implementing measures are how we will help those who are still in Croatia to acquire the necessary qualifications and get the most employment, but also how we will attract people from other countries who could do jobs for which we cannot find workers. It is a real important and serious job for Croatia, which, after six years, Plenkovic's government has not even principled at all, has not even scratched the problem, and the problem is huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83238	And the last 14 debates on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, respected colleague Urša Raukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83239	Thank you. I will talk about the same subject as my colleague Hajdukovic because of urgency and too much importance. So in the world, one to 10 children are born prematurely, in Croatia it is more than 2,600 children, so about 7 every day. Because they are born immature to these children, the Palcics need to survive the necessary support of specific medical devices, medicines and great expertise and commitment of highly educated medical professionals. Nevertheless, the consequences of premature birth can be very serious and permanent, and premature birth is a leading cause of child mortality under 1 year of age and another leading cause of child mortality under 5 years of age. Every year, millions of children die because of premature birth in the world. Otherwise due to a poor system, the worse the health care system in Croatia dies more babies than the European average. These more premature children, Palcici, in Croatia, are real little heroes when it comes to fighting for life. Therefore, news has been reported that for children, Palcice does not normally have Synagis needed to prevent respiratory infections. In particular, in Split, one mother who came with her Palcic for 3 months once a month for the necessary Synagis was told not to have the medicine because the Republic of Croatia did not order it, that she should wait for a phone call if the situation changes. It's the same situation in Rijeka, Syinagis is missing for the Thumbs. One dose of the medicine costs 6,500 kuna but cannot be bought by a private person even if you have the opportunity to pay for it. The parents of Rijeka, from Split, cannot come to Zagreb with their Palcics because hospitals order this medicine according to the number of minors born there and there are no others. It is not clear why Syinagisa is not available in Split and Rijeka. Parents contacted HZJZ where they were told that there were sufficient amounts of Syinagis delivered to Croatian hospitals but it was wrongly distributed. The problem seems to have arisen when the Palcic list is expanded in Split, but it is not clear why it is not re-allocated in this alarming situation to all babies who need it and get it. Both in Zagreb and Split, Rijeka and Osijek. The latest news today is the HZJZ indication that hospitals are being directed to obtain Synagis in direct contact with the MAH and the distributor of this medicinal product, and the ministry explains that there was a supply disturbance at the end of last year due to the inability of the manufacturer to deliver the quantities requested in time. The question arises, why immediately, at the end of last year, when it was known that there was a delay in delivery did not give the hospitals instructions to obtain Synagis on their own from a distributor on the domestic market but it was allowed that the medicine was not available and that the Palcics had to wait for emergency supplies of hospitals with uncertain results. Do domestic distributors even have enough of that medicine to deliver them to hospitals urgently? Why has the product not been redistributed if it has been misaligned? Desperate parents ask all media representatives, members of political parties, the state aid administration, do not ask for money, do not ask for a device, seek what is necessary to keep small and fragile from a severe disease that can be devastating for them. In light of the recent devastating results of the census, particular care should be taken to ensure that every child and child are provided with the necessary care, treatment, and attention, both in the timely and current response to the situation when there is a clear problem in the supply and supply of the medicinal product. We therefore join the appeal of parents of Palcic and invite Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Beros to join in immediately and as quickly as possible to organise the delivery of Synagis to Rijeka, Split, Osijek. It's important every day. The medicine is necessary. Don't let it be too late for some. That would be unforgivable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83317	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, colleagues of Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83318	It's not about respected citizens about terrorism. I know that Prime Minister Plenkovic is coming to the National Security Committee today because of the man he brought in because of the eggs. Eggs like guns. It's not a weapon, it's not a threat to anyone. But we will talk about eggs and harvesting. So you don't have to call the guard a weapon, it's not a terrorist act. I'd like to point out a few very important things here. We've got a gas collection five times right now. What will cause this gathering? That this egg, mostly from free farming, will collect five times. However, how will a farmer produce this egg when an artificial fertiliser depends on gas on Petrokemia. The production of artificial fertiliser depends on gas, which means that this year's farmer is not self-sufficient in this crisis anyway, except that his colleagues from the Zadar HDZ said it was a terrorist act by some sectarians there, I don't even know what man is talking about, but it's embarrassing to talk about an egg as a terrorist act, not as a food product that Boris Dvorinnik said in his song whether he's going to mutilate the eggs in the sysorole, in the eye, whether there are eggs, whether our children will be able to eat this egg. Five times the government does nothing. The government is dealing with primary matters. I know that it is important for the prime minister to say that he will react to Ukraine with his own strength, that Russia will shake, and it cannot.../incomprehensible/... except for the stream in Sinj with Croatian waters together or some other things that are much more significant. When I'm talking about the price I'll tell you a comparison, about water today is a question of how the local water lines will work, I'll say an example for the Cetin end of Sinj and the local municipalities, electricity in, last year in public procurement so that every household in Sinj and the Cetin region had water of 2 million and 160 for the electricity of thousands of kuna. Two months ago, she said 6 million and 332 thousand kuna, which is 200% more expensive. Our water, the water that we have the sources of the river Cetina, will be in Sinj, the Cetina region, which the government has taken, whether or not it sat down with HEP Minister Coric, whether all the water lines were called and to create a unique public procurement is large, large. 3 times, 4 costs only electricity to carry the pumps to households mainly in the mountainous areas in Dalmatia, Gorski Kotar, Lici where there are otherwise great losses and few consumers. What is the government doing about this whole lite? Except they're talking about an egg like terrorism, and this isn't the President of terrorism. Here's an egg, I mean, I'm gonna stand on the srid of the blue market and I'm gonna bring 100 eggs and let them beat me with eggs and what now. If that's the theme of bringing in a man who said something about an egg, imagine what kind of democracy we live in. We've got a lot more serious stuff. We have a problem of self-sufficiency. We have a problem selling agricultural land to foreigners next year. A Croat cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary because it is gold. And our farmer, the cattleman who wants, the cattleman or the one who manufactures this grain, the wheat he can't plant this year, it's not worth it. That's why the egg is not terrorism, the egg is a food item that will collect 5 times, it's a serious topic don't bring it up again For stupidity. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83389	12th debate of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83390	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The last time I spoke to this speaker was about certain measures that the government was supposed to take to protect the most vulnerable citizens, because inflation was the third shock in 2nd g. what Croatian citizens and Croatian society experience. The first shock was, was, was a pandemic, the second shock was an earthquake, and the third shock that is now being overcome by citizens' psychosis is actually inflation, is it, and these are three mixtures that must be difficult to work on Croatian society. The government is doing what it can, doing certain steps for the pandemic, for the earthquake, now creating a new set of measures that must mitigate inflation prices. However, unlike these other measures, why inflation is something that flows over to all citizens of society and why it may be the most dangerous in this area and why the government has to react as soon as possible, is this a race with time. When the government will react to stop this stampede, or this chain, chain direction that goes along with all these prices of food. So this is the time if the panic that is already on the market will talk about the purchase of products where everyone is already talking about product collection, not of 5 and 10%, but of 100%, 150%, 200%. So yesterday and the speech minister won't collect 400%, but even 100%, he'll pick up somewhere, he wouldn't say, but when he says he won't even have 100%, it's actually serious information that the government unfortunately in the inflation race has to go as fast as possible and as fast as possible to the market if this doesn't have a market, now there's no market. There is no market but simply one panic prevailed and therefore the government listened to Maric as soon as possible, and I support that as soon as possible with measures to stop these speculations happening on the market. Is even worse going to be later, it might be even worse than this which has increased the price of gas eating. Speculation must be stopped as soon as possible or with measures that must go as soon as possible this week and how to stop the market from expecting government intervention. The government is still calculating, waiting for who will be the second, third, no more waiting races, the problem is that it has to get out as soon as possible, this week that it has to go out and say stop all these speculations and punish anyone who wants to earn, make extra money in those speculations. It has to be said very clearly, is if it spills, and it is already overrun, and if price calculations already begin, and the government announces price control only sometime in the 6th or 7th month. It is too late to spill already 2 to 3 times, but on February 1st, a working group was to be formed to say what would happen to the prices. So look what the CNB's doing. At the 11th month, the CNB said inflation would be 2%, 10 days ago they said it would be 4 to 5%, so they were 100% wrong about how much inflation there would be. Yesterday I hear information that the minister says that the loss of gas pipelines is a billion and a half kuna, and it must be said very clearly that billions and a half of kunas are losses. Someone will pay them, they will be paid by the state through which they will have to pay hospital bills, they will be paid by local administration, all of them will be on the burden of the budget or the state or local dish, if they are owners, and they are both owners of it. But what's worse, as far as we don't know, from these billions and a half of kuna, we don't know how much that's gone to increase the price of all agricultural products to food, right, is that 5 billion kuna, is that 6 billion kuna, is your entry increased by a billion and a half. This multiplier works and therefore needs to urgently re-emerge the CNB and the Ministry of Economy to stop it, quickly calculate what it means and see which instruments it, try to prevent it, try to prevent it. And what you actually forgot, six months ago, so once again I point out, the citizens in this part of inflation where the escape is going to go back to silent minuses. This is where you promised to solve them within six months. Don't let everyone get away with it now. We don't have them regulated into those silenced minuses again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You promised to settle it by 12 months, you didn't solve it, so don't let the citizens solve their existential problems get back into the quieted minuses that aren't regulated. Please regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83474	We are now going to the ninth debate of a respected colleague, Simicevic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83475	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of anniversary talk going on here at this pay phone. Here's me getting a chance to say something about the Maslenica military-related operation that started 22. January and as General Gotovina said, it ended only in the fall when it was mentioned, when a truce was agreed. One who does not know his history is forced to repeat it and therefore we need to remember our history and learn about events so as not to repeat mistakes. The circumstances in which we lived before the Maslenica military-redar operation will be remembered forever. Daily destruction and killing more than 200,000 exiles in the city of Zadar, a constant shortage of water, electricity, continuous alarms, children in shelters. Operation Maslenica also announced a milestone in the Homeland War and will remain permanently marked in Croatian history by a clear message to the Chetniks and the Yugoslav People's Army, about what we think about their occupation ideas and the wish of Croatian people to defend their home and territory to their own forces and join the north and south of Croatia. The Maslenica military-redar operation also had a strong message to the International Community, which until then expressed deep doubt and infidelity in the ability and strength of the Croatian Armed Forces. The Maslenica action has not only denied this, but we have sent a message to the entire international world and to the community that the Croatian people are ready and their Armed Forces to make a thousand-year-old dream of our ancestors to create a completely free and independent Croatian state against a much more powerful enemy. The operation was planned and carried out by Generals Janko Bobetko, Ante Rosso, Ante Gotovina, Mirko Norac and Mladen Markac. Battle action on the ground began on January 22, '93. at six o'clock, and it ended as I had already said that General Gotovina only said in the fall when such a truce was reached. During the action of the Croatian Armed Forces and police, they freed the Zadar hinterland and the Maslenica Bridge, Jasenica, the Air Force Base, and the Peruca dam was later released, which was mined by the rebel Serbs. Here it should be emphasized that on the one hand the enemy was well equipped, had strong support while on the other hand they were young men in jeans, but with love and a responsible heart for the free and independent state of Croatia. Croatian defenders with a crown around their necks and faith in God without hesitation set out in this battle with pride and a sense of justice and freedom, not thinking of their own lives, decided to end oppression and defend their home, family and country. To all victims, especially those who gave what was most valuable to them, I thank and admire their lives, and I believe all people who regard the Croatian state as their own. From January 22nd to January 25th, 13 Croatian defenders were killed for the next two days on January 26th, 27th, and another 6 Croatian defenders were injured in defence of the lines reached. Since the enemy has performed constant combat activities seeking to recover the lost that since 31 March 1993, the number of Croatian defenders killed has risen to 127. The release of this part of our homeland begins a new life not only of the Zadar County, but of the hope that war suffering and suffering will finally end. A new transport link has been established between the north and south through a new crane. Operation Maslenica will be permanently marked in the history of the Croatian people after a brilliant operation, an operation the enemy did not expect, but according to a message expected in the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia. The success of the Maslenica military-related operation seems to be even bigger and brighter today. The marking of Operation Maslenica is once again remembered by all victims of Croatian defenders, their courage, determination and faith, which are embedded in a sovereign, independent Croatia. Those who left everything and went to war for free Croatia with a crown around their necks, faith in God no one can erase from our memories. Because of all this, we need to keep repeating our history, not just among us who were part of that history, but our young people. that they know how hard it was to get to a free country. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83552	We are now going to the 7th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, a respected colleague of Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83553	Good afternoon, everyone. Here's a colleague and colleague, Minister Coric told us yesterday that we don't have to worry that this government will do everything possible so that our citizens don't feel a blow to their budget by collecting energy and then eventually by collecting other prices. But as they've been dealing with energy poverty so far, I guess Minister Coric was thinking about that old man that our people always remember somewhere, and it's not supposed to surprise us, and it's actually going to survive because they're already ready for anything. So it's 2021. There has been a huge increase in the number of those who temporarily had to switch off electricity due to non-payments, over 30,000 means households, which is an increase of 11% compared to 2020, even 5.7% of households cannot pay for heating costs in the coldest months. We are the 6th worst country in Europe for poverty and social exclusion, and the total person at risk of poverty and social exclusion is over 23%. So now, given the fact that it is more than 800,000 people, that more than 600,000 pensioners in Croatia have a pension less than the poverty line, I am interested in how the government has solved energy poverty so far, so far. to the vouchers. My colleagues and colleagues, these vouchers could only be used by a little over 60,000 people. Is it really a fight against energy poverty then? So only those who were categorized by the welfare centre as endangered energy consumers could get that poor, I would say and now a voucher is a miserable meal of 200 kuna. It will certainly be insufficient when an even greater collection comes on April 1st, so gas especially. So what we have today is insufficient, we have meaning these vouchers that refer only to and these are means persons with disabilities and users of minimum guaranteed fees, these people are certainly not enough today. And now what Plenkovic announces first that it will well increase the obvious amount of that voucher, that it will extend it not only to electricity but also to thermal energy and gas, okay to do so but we still won't actually have an increase in the scope of those who can enter that category, and so when you ask means pensioners, pensioners, poor workers who often address us, so why don't I think you're not in that category, why don't you get that voucher they can't qualify, so people who have poor pensions, but can't qualify for those threatened customers because if you don't know the income of 800 kuna you can't get into that category. Therefore, a property or income censorship that is already somewhere and determined should be determined, meaning 60% of the media salary that would mean for a single household being somewhere around a little more than 2,700 kuna, for the household of two parents with two children who are under 14 years of age, that would be a little more than 5,600 kuna and that would have said insufficient, but let's say that there is some criterion that could set it. Then, of course, the question will be asked where it will all be financed from, so colleagues and colleagues, fortunately, and in these crises, shows how important it is to have unprivitised public systems that, like HEP, could be able to jump in, could be asked to adopt a regulation to obtain public undertakings providing municipal services redistributed with the subsidies of their services. HEP 2020 had 1.4 billion kuna profits from which the state took 840 million kuna, leaving HEP with a retained profit of around 500 million kuna. So if that amount of $1.4 billion was divided into about 2.2 million of electricity calculated in the household category, we got an average of about 1,500 kuna per accounting place, 130 kuna per month, which is more than twice what the state is now giving for just over 60, a little more than 60,000 of these protected energy customers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83598	We move on to the 11th debate, now will speak to a respected colleague, Lerotić, on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83599	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about gatherings and living standards, which, unfortunately, is getting worse in this country. To begin with, I will say that only four EU countries have a lower minimum wage than the Republic of Croatia. Even so, 13 have a minimum wage prescribed. 2 countries have a minimum salary of more than 1000 euros and 6 have more than 1500 euros. Those with lower minimum wage are Bulgarians, 332 euros, Latvia 500 euros, Romania, 550 euros, and then Croatia with slightly more than 620 euros. By contrast, our neighbouring Slovenia has 1074 euros minimum wage. And by the way, they're already at the beginning of the most vulnerable situation, and all these purchases that we have, fuel prices, gas, electricity, food, almost everything, are definitely making our fellow citizens' lives worse. And what are we doing? At this point we had a few months ago fixed fuel price, and now the vouchers are being prepared at 200 kuna for electricity and gas. And that's a fire escape. However, we all know that every citizen of this country wants to work, wants to receive a salary that will give him a decent life, wants to receive a salary with which he will be able to pay all of his obligations, both for himself, for his family, for his children, without being given to him, or to pay the vouchers of 200 kuna, because it is even an insult to our citizens in which we say, here are 200 kuna and pay for the electricity. Firefighting measures and these are clear moves and indicators that the government actually has no clear vision of how to achieve, how to create a competitive economy because a serious country cannot retain the standard of citizens at some level by freezing prices or vouchers. It is not and cannot be a question of how to solve the quality of our fellow citizens' lives. Some of the questions the government should ask itself is how to make salary growth possible. How to enable a higher level of investment. How to enable an increase in employment. I don't remember when we had an example. The latest major foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia to create new jobs, which will allow new employment. I've been here at HS since I entered, for almost a year trying to save production in Kanfanar, a BAT factory that was, if I'm not mistaken, the largest foreign investment in Croatia. It took us a year, Vlad, to decide whether to intervene and to save 500 jobs in Kanfanar without talking about suppliers and those who produce raw materials in Slavonia. And members of both business and academic communities have long appealed to reforms, made concrete proposals in the area of public administration reform, health and education systems, justice and labour law without which there is no significant economic growth and achievement of more developed EU members. The national strategy foresees 100,000 new jobs by 2030, and when we look at the reforms that the government plans, only 40% of all reforms, it refers to how it plans to create a more competitive economy. Our share of income from taxes and contributions to GDP is more than 37%. We have 400,000 people less, a major labour problem, and the main reason for this is payload, making it difficult for employers to retain existing workers, and even more attractive to new workers, especially now that we are on the EU's single market. And what is rarely mentioned, and that is that we definitely need a reform of the country's expenditure budget, we have new responsibilities announced by the Ministry of Finance over a billion euros, and we simply don't see how this government has a vision, or even a desire to create a decent life, that our citizens have the right to work, that they have the right to receive wages that will enable themselves and their family to live a decent life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83629	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the SDSS Representatives' Club debate, respected colleague Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83630	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, currently in force, the Labour Act prescribes that the conclusion of the Labour Treaty is an exception for a certain period of time, to be more direct should be an exception. However, I am sure that each of us knows at least one person to whom the employer extends the Labour Treaty for a period of time longer than 3 g. Whether there's an objective reason or not. Workers are probably silent, fearing the loss of such employment, and they agree to such unfavorable conditions because they cannot be found permanently. On the other hand, employers justify such contracts by verifying workers and at the risk of operating even though such a possibility is of course not provided for by law. No matter how aware they are of the fact that the work is for a certain time in us the rule of no exception is detailed analysis conducted by the Zagreb Institute for Social Research in collaboration with the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and presented several very worrying facts. So you should know that about every fifth employee in us works temporarily. Among the temporary employees, each third has a contract shorter than 3 months. Just to clarify that these short labor contracts wouldn't be a problem if it were so-called. positive transitions from the working contract to specified in the contract on work indefinitely, but that is not the case. We unfortunately belong to EU countries with a low probability of a positive transition. Short-term contracts are often and succesively renewed, making employment additionally insecure, and only every ten people welcome this positive transition to the permanent one, therefore, to the work contract indefinitely. Workers employed at a certain time are more unfavourable than those with a permanent contract, so as many as 25% of respondents stated that they had no equal salary compared to their colleagues at the same workplace, a fifth could not manage the same time, nor could they exercise the same right to stay. It is known that work has a negative impact on other important life issues such as housing problems with difficulty access, loans and the like. In addition to the wide range of work in different sectors and interests, it is also present among all categories of workers with the most affected younger workers, as a consequence of new employment practices. So according to the Employment Service 9 out of 10 out of the unemployment records is actually hiring through the contract again on a certain level. As with other more insecure forms of work, employment affects women for a certain time, of course. All of these shows us that the labour market is truly ruthless to certain groups because unconscious employers abuse labour law institutes written in good faith. For this reason, we should be wise and take advantage of the opportunity ahead of us, as regards recent procedures of the Labour Law. As a guideline, we can serve recent reforms of labour legislation in other EU countries where contracts are used for the purposes for which they are intended, rather than to continue to follow a specific one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83673	We now move to 8 debates, Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia, a respected colleague of Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83674	Thank you. Dearly beloved, the last few months have priced in us savagely. In some categories such as oils, more than 20% of what is happening now and at European markets and those with lower standards such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria have gone up. Although at EU level, food prices, alcohol, smoked in December were only 3.2% higher while inflation was about 5%. Croatia has never been a cheap country, especially when it comes to food, telecommunications services, various technical goods and the like, and one of the more important reasons why we are expensive are high trade margins. Tax experts calculated that after 2010, the leading trade chains in Croatia almost doubled their margins. For example, in 2010, most trade margins ranged around 17% and in 2015 they were more than 30%. As for the prices of food in the shops, however, they do not follow the producers that are being changed daily and the country’s aid is expected to survive. It is irrelevant whether it will be through the reduction or elimination of VAT, freezing of the prices of basic products, vouchers to a certain level of monthly consumption or similar to that of some poorer EU members. Consider, for example, the price of milk and dairy products that are increasing daily. But as the price of liter of milk in stores increases, the price of the same liter of milk delivered by the farmer to the factories remains the same for years. And while the purchase price of a liter of milk remains the same, citizens pay a liter more than three years ago. In 2019, a liter of milk cost 5 kuna 99 limes, today 7 kuna 99, liters of yoghurt was on average 8.99, today it cost 2 kunas more. The butter is more expensive for even 8 kunas. The dairy industry's price hike justifies its high costs, but parallelly generates an increasing profit. No matter what the costs of those who produce raw materials for the domestic industry, do any notice their increase. The price of oil went up, fertilisers for over 300% and seeds, and since this year, warlords have been costing them the seed that the ministry has imposed on them. Soon we will see a new price increase as a consequence of the introduction of the EUR. Despite the very reasonable fear of the gathering, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far decided not to apply the most successful method of preventing price savagery in the process of introducing the EUR. The publication of black lists of merchants, which saved our neighbours from excessive gatherings in Croatia, will still not be held. The decision is made by the Ministry of Economy which publishes blacklists no longer mentioned, and this instrument has also been thrown out of recently published economic adjustment guidelines in the Croatian kuna replacement process. It's a bit surprising, especially since it's made so-called. the blacklists, among other things, in the National Kuna Replacement Plan, published in December 2020, which clearly stated that the list would be published on the Euro.hr page and that it would list the names of companies that would try to abuse the process of introducing the EUR in order to increase prices to the detriment of consumers. Among other things, the governor himself said publicly when he presented the plan to the public in November 2020. And he repeated it a year later when he represented activities to protect consumers at a business conference. The Ministry of Economy considers it sufficient to apply consumer protection measures such as dual price display, application of a fixed rate of conversion when calculating, supervision of traders and service providers, and monitoring the trends in prices of the most commonly used products on the market, making blacklists. So it's no longer on the list of tools to protect consumers, but that's why it's mentioned making so-called. The ethical code, which the ministry claims will allow for a reliable and transparent introduction of the euro. It's actually going to be a set of standards that entrepreneurs will be able to do, but they won't have to apply. I believe that Croatian citizens are rightly afraid that it is all waiting for us in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83715	Now we will cross as always at the beginning of the week, our, the beginning of a plenary session with a view to clubs and independent representatives. The first is today's honoured counterpart Klasic on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u83716	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Good morning, everyone. First of all, the Croatian Army, the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia is not political toys and the state must operate on the basis of the agreements and consent of the highest state bodies, especially in the area of co-operation. A lot of messages have recently appeared in media space that do not inform but often confuse citizens. In parliamentary democracies, as well as in ours, the decision to send soldiers to the Croatian Army is neither made by the president nor by the government but by the HS. Just as we have made such decisions so far on sending soldiers to the peacekeeping and NATO missions, which is our duty as members of the UN and NATO, Croatia has agreed to join the NATO alliance and signed certain agreements that are two-way and in which we accept the common commitments of the alliance, which, among other things, is the very essence of the establishment of NATO alliance. Unfortunately, our governments so far have often seen this as an excuse for not developing and not investing in their own armed forces for the past 20 years because in the event of a threat, we will be protected by the same NATO alliance. The president's statement gives the impression that Croatia is the leading force in the NATO alliance and that everything revolves around us. Here, yesterday we just heard that Great Britain is a second-rate force with which we have nothing to talk about because they don't really matter, and in fact our contribution is just a little bit larger than a declarative one, which is in a small state policy like us, often more significant than the actual engagement of the armed forces. So far, we have participated in a large number of international and NATO missions, with the approval of HS, from Afghanistan, Iraq, North Africa, the Mediterranean, Poland and Kosovo, and thus acquired an enviable role, a role, a reputation as a stability and a reliable partner. As part of the EU and NATO alliance, we should consistently assume the obligations we have made in protecting and developing the space we live in if we want to be taken seriously and respected. If we don't want to, it's just up to us and if it's acceptable to everyone, and it's a democracy, but let's forget about getting into the Schengen area and forget about the relative security these institutions bring, let's forget about the fund money. There are no benefits, even less investment in countries that are securely unstable or yet another Balkan country or an unwanted force, an unstable zone of Europe whose citizens do not have access to the free market. Honestly, I'm just curious about how our country would function without all of it. Especially without the funds we're getting right now. As hard as I try, I can't look back on the president's latest statements in Ukraine. Wasn't the Croatian Government in 2013 and 2014 that he was the Prime Minister following events in Kiev and supporting the people's wishes for democratic change and European integration. Didn't we just, in 2014, send a plane to Zagreb from Kiev to transport a group of heavily wounded Ukrainian defenders? Personally, I agree that Croatian soldiers should not fight in other people's wars, the decision is for individuals who can do it as volunteers or on their own behalf and responsibility, but what I disagree with is the rhetoric of the president's expressions and the hypocrisy of these statements. During our Homeland War, where we were in a similar situation, we also sent a call to the West and while Western policy was slow and ineffective, it was paid by the blood of our citizens, and especially that ineffective care paid for in Bosnia and Herzegovina, until the West decided to engage. At that time, any help, even if declared, meant a lot to us. Our freedom was also defended by not a few foreigners who did not wait for their governments to react, and they knew we were fighting for our own freedom. Among them and the Ukrainians, some Ukrainian citizens laid down their lives for Croatia's freedom. Also, if memory doesn't cheat on me, Ukraine has us on December 11th, '91. She confessed among the first countries when she gave us support when we needed it most, and she participated significantly in receiving our Armed Forces when we needed it, but let's just remember that half of our MiG-24s came from Ukraine and the instructors who followed them. I find such statements by the president unacceptable, as surely as we are, who are surely discredited and destroyed by the existing, what kind of reputation of the country that we have hard acquired in the EU and our allies in the NATO Pact. Such statements and foreign policy management re-classify us as a unstable and unconstitutional country, which rather belongs to the Balkans than to EU countries and give us the right of all the countries within the EU that are often looking at us below the increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89371	Thank you, too. Here we had 14 clubs or 13 clubs and an independent representative, and now we're going to go to the agenda. First point: - Final proposal of the Law on the notification procedure in the field of technical regulations and regulations on information society services (TRIS), second reading, P.Z.E. No. 185 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and the introduction of the proposal will provide an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Mario Šiljeg. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89372	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I am pleased to have the opportunity to present the Final Proposal for the Law on Notification Procedures in the field of technical regulations and regulations on information society services. The notification procedure shall indicate the public consultation procedure in the national rules of the EU Member States. The procedure is governed by EU Directive 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The same procedure requires the competent authorities of the EU Member States to inform the European Commission and the interested public of any draft national and technical regulations on the products and services of the information society before they are adopted by national legislation. At present, in the Republic of Croatia, the notification procedure is governed by the Regulation on the procedure of notification of technical regulations and regulations concerning the services of the information society to which Directive 98/34/EC has been adopted. In the meantime, the codified text of the directive has been adopted, so the area in question needs to be regulated by the regulation of a more legal force, and especially because of the legal consequences that can lead to non-compliance with the notification procedure, taking into account the case-law of the EU court in the context of non-compliance with the notification obligations. The notification process allows the Commission and the EU Member States to take into account the draft technical rules which the Member State intends to adopt for the products and services of the information society. The aim is to ensure their compliance with EU law and the principles of the internal market. The implementation of the notification process reveals possible new barriers on the internal market before it causes a negative effect. The notification procedure applies to draft national rules on information society products and services which do not comply with EU legislation. For example, all industrial, agricultural and fishery products, and in the case of services, it is the services which are generally provided with a distance fee by electronic means and the individual request of the service user. In the case-law of the EU Court of Justice, failure to comply with the notification obligation is an essential procedural flaw in the procedure for the adoption of the rules in question, which implies that any interested individual may challenge the legality of such a regulation before a national court and appeal to its inapplicability. As compared to the draft law which was under discussion in HS in November last year, the first reading in the text of the final proposal of the law was carried out nomotechnically supplementing the expressions of certain provisions, comments, proposals and opinions of MPs and club representatives who were highlighted in the debate in HS were considered, and it was concluded that they do not require an amendment to the provisions of the final draft law. Also, as highlighted during the debate in the first reading, the possibilities for better information and greater participation and contribution of our shareholders, representatives of the business community and interested public in the notification procedures have been recognised. In this respect, with the already existing activities carried out in order to inform the interested public, the applicant considers that this final proposal for a law will achieve greater visibility of the proceedings in question. The Proposer shall also plan to provide further information to the economic operators, representatives of professional associations and interested public through education and other forms of familiarisation with the advantages and opportunities of using the relevant European Commission tool. The following, I propose, presented, I apologize, is proposed to adopt the final bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89373	Stay here because we have replicas, now we'll see how many there are. The first one is mostly a colleague of Dreven Buddinski's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89374	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I think this law is very good because this is a great incentive for Croatian exporters, and especially smaller companies, because this Notification Act will contribute to the visibility of their products and services, so please let me know which benefits our shareholders receive from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89375	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89376	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. Yes, among other things, we believe that this law will have certain benefits, significant benefits and on our exporters. Why? From very simple facts, all our businessmen, and in particular, would dare to say small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are planning to export their products and services to this law, will be given the opportunity to make information about their product or their services available throughout the EU market, in all official languages, for example. The EU, so I'm talking about a market of nearly 450 million people, so that's a special benefit, I would dare say for smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It also means at the time when one of our entrepreneurs intends to make a certain deal with an EU Member State and place their products and services on its territory this law will have a timely detection of potential obstacles to their work and differences between our national legislation and possible differences and their legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89377	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89378	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I really appreciate it, and I think this is an important law and it's important that we have it. He won't cause any heated debate, like it wasn't even in the first reading. It's from that set of laws that kind of go under the radar. But what I appreciate is that it's important, and that's how the rest of the ministry is going to make contact with all those professional associations and the whole public to get good information and to participate. So the form is satisfied, so the form will be satisfied, we know exactly what it is, how it will go notification and everything else, but what's important for everyone to become aware of it, that it should be involved. You know, we have this habit of always remembering at the end when it's all over then we remember why something is one way or another. And I'm curious to know what you're going to do or what you're going to do, what you're going to do and what you're going to do, actually, that the interested public is actively involved in the process?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89379	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89380	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The very fact that we raise the level from the regulation to the law contributes to visibility means needs and opportunities in such matters. What we're going to do is definitely and we've already done that we're going to increase the visibility of these possibilities through our ministry's web portal. In addition, we have a plan for regular consultations with HGK and with professional associations and we plan with existing consultations that we have in the county centres to bring advice and better information to the public, especially our entrepreneurs at the county level. So I agree with you that more work needs to be done on the visibility of this law, and since it also has a obligator character, then within 3 months it is necessary to carry out the notification and surely that liability fact will contribute to the visibility of the need for this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89381	Now it's time for my colleague Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89382	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, on the trail of what you have been asked and colleague Mrak-Taritash, therefore the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations gives you different instruments such as holding round tables, including interested public and entrepreneurs and all other participants in the process and thus helping you to create a bill, so before it comes to us here on the agenda. I wonder why our ministries are persistently avoiding the provisions of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89383	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89384	As regards the concrete legislative solution that is before us today, we think that we have taken a series of activities in this particular sense, which you are talking about and re-emphasizing commitment, means the procedure, so before any legal solution is passed in this esteemed home, which is not defined by the directive or by the regulation of the EU, which is outside these regulations, will be required, so we would dare say not only about the preference but also about the obligation to implement such procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89385	My colleague Željko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89386	Dear Secretary, how serious it is that this directive is, in fact, a different version, given that it was already regulated at the level of Europe before that, but it was not good enough, so a new directive was adopted in 2015, the procedure... And I think it's a good thing we're implementing it into the law, and just the way you did it is, I think it's done great. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What bothers me is that no one actually participated in the public debate. So if we look at the documents on the Ministry, on the Ministry's portal, we see that none of the entrepreneurs actually came forward, but we have several places written down and written that actually the TRIS Centre has been working with the HUP, with the HOK, with the Chamber of Commerce, and then when you go to look at what these institutions are doing, you see that the HUP is actually doing something for TRIS, and everyone else is silent. You don't have any information on their TRIS portals. Please, does the Ministry mean anything to you? take or.../incomprehensible/...? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89387	Thank you, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89388	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, on the basis of your presentation, I would also like to commend the HUP as a professional association that has been actively participating with our ministry lately, especially in these e-intelligence procedures and increasing visibility. We intend with them also, and continue further cooperation and on this matter, but what I would particularly stress is going out on the ground, i.e. information, especially to smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, what brings them in, which benefits them to pass this Act before us and we are working actively on this plan, and we will do so very quickly in the weeks ahead and realize at lower levels, conditionally speaking, to the county levels, that everyone gets timely information about the possibilities resulting from this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89389	Thank you very much. And it's my last colleague Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89390	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, I wish there was a minister here because this notification through e-Consultation. e-Information of our entrepreneurs, middle, small, on the market, as said by half a billion people, slightly less, us 3 million and something is very important. We have a huge problem right now, and I wish your ministry had talked more about the problem, and if you'd come up with a solution, this is a regulation and an eye copy, a solution to the current electricity collection, the problems of our water lines that will have 3.4 times more expensive electrical energy to deliver water to their households, for example. In the Cetina region, since last year with 2 million kuna, now public procurement has gone to something more, about 6.5 million kuna, which is 200% higher. So we have problems both in the private sector, so in the public sector as far as our entrepreneurship is concerned, so I'd like those solutions, I'm sorry the minister didn't come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89391	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89392	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since it's mine, let's say, narrow water supply and disposal, I'm aware of this problem you're.../incomprehensible... that you pointed out. What I can say is that the investment wave in Croatia, as you know, for example in the Cetin region, has been extremely busy lately, that the agreement, or approval of projects, is over 200% of allotment in the water-communal sector, but that all these projects are approved with one of the preconditions, which is the affordability of the water service price after implementation of the projects. We are aware that this kind of infrastructure, such new modern wastewater treatment and drinking water production devices, will necessarily cause a certain increase in service prices, but I say, it was a prerequisite for cost-effectiveness, or affordability to be below 3%, so that we count that with modern service our citizens will not feel important about increasing the price of water service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89393	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89394	Thank you very much, President. The secretary of state has been injured by an officer. 238, he didn't answer the question I said, I wasn't talking about investment, I was talking about power collection for 200 percent for suppliers.../incomprehensible/... for water lines in the Cetina region. What have you done, will you go to the unique public procurement of all the plumbing? Because from 2 million last year, the price now went to 6.5 million kuna, the price of water to be delivered to water consumers at all, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89395	You know for yourself, colleague Bulj, that this is a warning because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Secretary of State, you can return to your post, no more replicas. We'll move on now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, dear colleague Zeljko Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89396	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague, welcome first. I will today, given that we believe that what the legislator has done in the law, that he has transposed the essential provisions of the directive, I will discuss it a little differently today, in fact, I will say something about the directive with the aim of getting to know all those who have not met in the public debate, and neither have they been introduced by the HOK, HGK and HUP in that part. Of course, the ministry did what it could to do and sent information to the institutions that were supposed to do it and here, we heard today that it would happen at lower levels or the level of the county and units of local self-government. But I'm still going to make an introduction so we can get to know our businessmen, our entrepreneurs who are waiting for them and what are their obligations. At one point, Mr. Secretary said something would make it easier for them. Actually, this binds them. That's what this is about. They can't function without this. All those debtors who won't respect what's written and what's been adopted and if we don't adapt to certain norms, when we do that notification, we'll have problems and we won't be able to do our job. Since this Law is very important for our entrepreneurs, and according to the public debate, it has not brought too much attention to them, it is expected that more activities related to this Act will be taken over and taken over by HGK, HUP and HOK and that they will carry out the notification and informing of entrepreneurs. In fact, the Information Centre for TRIS is in fact at the Ministry of Economy and is coordinating the process of notification in Croatia and is working with the EU Commission in Croatia, and is also working in Croatia with the HUP, HOK and the Chamber of Commerce and with all state administration bodies as well as with exporters. This cooperation is necessary because it is important to inform the economic operators in time of the intention of individual members to regulate a particular area since it is non-harmonised and non-harmonised areas and regulations. It is equally important that businessmen can prepare themselves in time for new business conditions. We believe that the legislator has transposed the essential provisions of the directive into this law, so I will not waste my time on the articles of the law but will say something about TRIS and the notification process. Let's first demystify a sentence of TRIS which is very often mentioned when we talk about notifying technical regulations. This TRIS keybinding used in the law essentially has roots in English and if we could translate it into a Croatian language translation would be an information system of technical regulations. This is simplified by the information system which registers new draft technical regulations and aims to form and maintain an up-to-date information system, and that entrepreneurs can be informed of new draft technical regulations and enable them to participate in the 2015/2035 procedure. Until now, the notification procedure, i.e. the formal notification procedure for technical regulations and regulations on information society services in the Republic of Croatia, has been and has been further regulated by the regulation on the procedure for notification of technical regulations and regulations on information society services. I think it's just that we've moved from the regulation to the law to talk enough about the seriousness of the subject we're talking about. The notification procedure shall have such a name because it has been established by Directive 2015, 15/35. This process is a tool for information and prevention and dialogue in the field of technical regulations on information society products and services, helping to foresee and prevent the creation of barriers to trade that may affect entrepreneurial activities. This procedure allows the Commission and EU Member States to review the technical rules which Member States intend to introduce for products, means for industrial products, agricultural and fishery products and for information society services before their adoption. This is extremely important that this applies to the time before their adoption. The point is to ensure that these texts comply with EU law and the principles of the internal market. In a simplified form, it shall apply to the Member States of the European Free Trade Association, i.e. to the EFTA States which are signatories to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and to Switzerland and Turkey. I will not talk about the objectives of this procedure, Mr Secretary has already said enough, but I would like to say that, in accordance with this procedure, Member States must inform the Commission of any draft technical regulation prior to its adoption, a three-month standstill period has been defined during which the Member State which sent the notification cannot adopt the technical regulation in question, and that period allows the Commission and the Member State to review the notified text and the corresponding reply. If it turns out that this draft can create obstacles to the free movement of goods or to the free provision of information society services or to secondary EU legislation by the Commission and other Member States, Member States may deliver a detailed opinion to the Member State which has notified the draft. A detailed opinion shall have the effect of extending the rest period for an additional three months for products and an additional one month for services. In the event of a detailed opinion being issued, the Member State concerned must explain the measures it intends to take in response to a detailed opinion. And what is extremely important for both our entrepreneurs and all those particularly interested in exporters is that the Commission can block the draft during the period from 12 to 18 months if coordination is to be carried out at EU level or is already being carried out in the same area. Upon completion of the 2015/35 procedure, Member States shall be obliged to notify the Commission of the final texts immediately after the adoption of those texts, and to specify the cases in which the notified draft was abandoned and all with a view to the conclusion of the 2015/35 procedure. This allows the Commission and other Member States to verify whether the country which sent the notification has taken into account the indications received during the procedure. The Directive also provides for an emergency procedure for the urgent adoption of a national draft subject to certain conditions, i.e. serious and unpredictable circumstances relating to the protection of public health and safety, i.e. the protection of animals or plants. The Commission shall take into account the eligibility of the emergency procedure as soon as possible and, if the Commission adopts a request for an emergency period of three months, it shall not apply and the notified text may be adopted immediately. It is evident from the above that the procedure is not simple and that it is extremely important to inform notifying entrepreneurs. On the website of the HUP, it is stated that on its website and via e-mail, the HUP will regularly notify its members of the current notifications, as well as the united and accepted observations to the national contact point, i.e. the TRIS centre. Other entrepreneurs, except that they can be informed in the HUP, should also be able to be informed in the HGK or the HOK, but they can access the database themselves and look at the data if they know how to use this database. Everything that has been stated so far has been defined in the law and we believe that it will find our entrepreneurs and exporters in time and in an appropriate manner and in an appropriate format to receive all the necessary information related to the draft notifications that are listed in the single EU-level database, and in the event of exceptional needs and self-informed by reviewing and searching that database. I'm not going to go into those details about the training of our entrepreneurs and exporters, so I'll talk about it later in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89397	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89398	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, is here before us the Final Proposal for the Law on Notification Procedure in the field of technical regulations and regulations of information society services. As we could hear from both the State Secretary and colleagues, this notification procedure or the formal notification procedure of technical regulations and regulations on information society services in the Republic of Croatia was further governed by the Regulation on the procedure for notifying technical regulations and regulations and services of the information society in the National Journal 105/15 which adopted the '98 Directive in the national legislation. European Parliament and Council of Europe. In view of the fact that the Directive of 98 has undergone a number of amendments for the sake of clarity, for the sake of greater purpose, it is the same.../incomprehensible/... the 2015 Directive. The European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of the information provision process in the field of technical regulations and rules on the services of an information society which has put out of force and replaced the '98 Directive. A year. Based on an analysis of the notifications received in the field of national and technical regulations in accordance with the Regulation on the European Commission's adopted recommendations under the European Semester 2020, the need for these activities to be improved in order to improve the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU internal market. According to case law, the Court of Justice of the EU does not fulfil the notification obligation constitutes an essential procedural flaw in the process of adopting the technical regulation in question. The law requires the provision of a notification procedure in the field of technical regulations and regulations on information society services, the obligation of national competent authorities to prepare technical regulations and the tasks of national contact points. The aim is to prevent the creation of new trade barriers on the internal market in such a way as to inform the competent authorities of the European Commission and other EU Member States and the interested public of draft technical regulations, on the products and services of the information society before they are adopted into national legislation. The regulation of the proposed legislative proposal is expected to improve the application of the notification procedure when public authorities adopt technical regulations and regulations on information society services, thereby removing potential legal consequences in national legislation which may arise from non-compliance with the obligations of this procedure. More active participation by national and public authorities in the implementation of the process of notifying the draft rules of other EU Member States through the introduction of a larger number of objections, comments or opinions, and thus better integration into the EU internal market, in line with the Commission's recommendations. A greater contribution and more active involvement of representatives of professional associations and interested public in the process of adopting regulations by other EU Member States in order to contribute to the prevention of the creation of barriers to the freedom of movement of goods and the provision of services. In view of all that has been said so far, the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89399	The third debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, respected colleague Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89400	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Associates, colleagues and colleagues in the second reading, we have a proposal for a Law on Notification Procedure in the field of Technical Regulations and Regulations on Information Society Services. I am one of those who, when it comes out for this speaker, I never have a problem, and I am even more concerned about all the benefits that Croatia has from being an EU member and I think every time I repeat that it is incomparably better that we are in a good and successful society than that we are outside of society and of course that we are both present and future, and this also shows that this is good. But on July 1, 2013, we all know well at the political level how long it was, at the political level, we know that it was not easy for us, but it was difficult for us to be honest and then to be honest, we saw that there were a number of things that we hadn't prepared for the end and that surprised us. And we, therefore, in 2022 today, are going to turn the regulation that we have brought about the notification into the law, but what seems to me to be a key topic and a key story, how can one of those who should be involved really not speak in a formal sense because we know in a formal sense what dots are, which is this who is in charge of what they really need than those who need to be actively involved and that they participate. It seems to me that this law, the law is technically well written, it is correct, we see everything that should be, between the first and the second reading, I think there was something very little, the clarifications were kind of because they opened up through a debate on committees, so that law is one of those laws that will not cause or cause any big and sensational storm in the debate in this assembly, but what is crucial is how those who, in that law, have some consequence in which they should participate actively, participate. It's actually a key topic because we say, among other things, that this law regulates free movement of goods, services and capital. All right, everything's fine, but someone who wants to participate in a market tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the European market, not someone but the EU market, should be interested in what conditions, in which way, whether they are there, whether there are some changes that will affect him or vice versa if you want to have your standards and your things that are applicable, so it's some kind of mutual relationship. We're not doing it well enough yet. A colleague, Pavić, when speaking on behalf of the club, stated that the general interest that was in this law was none when he was in public debate, nothing. Interest in this assembly is not too much for the simple reason that it is one of the technical regulations. Now, what should be crucial should be, and it should be, I have pointed out in my first reading, and I am stressing now, and this is the active role of the state administration, and I think the central state administration should at all shed light on the business community of the importance of this law, the importance of how they can participate, how they are facilitated by access to national technical regulations, how they can be informed in time, and there should be representatives and professional associations and interested public and education and everything else. Why was this introduction when I spoke and said that on July 1st, we came in and that we were surprised? Then we were surprised that a lot of things needed this or that. So the EU has certain forms of behaviour. In these forms of behavior you should be active and participate. I've spent my whole working life and my life thinking it's a lot simpler when you have steps and some hodograms and work on it and participate in it than when you improvise. We are, unfortunately, all together somehow people and nations that we remember at the last minute. I'm just going to refer to something that's not a topic, but it can be very close to that. We recently had that set of social care laws. In that set of laws, there was a lot of debate about family homes. They're up to 20 protégés who can be and say that the adjustment is 5. Well, I can bet here with any one of you that those who own family homes will be 4 years old. They won't do anything, they'll ask for five years what that adjustment should be, and then the last six months will be a panic. It's whether or not it's someone else's, I don't know, another nation's, we live in this country, I'm a member of this country, and I know it keeps going, so I'm 4 years old. We watch, and then we think about it. Why am I saying this all together? It's just like that when we feel that someone was supposed to participate in the whole process when they come to work or sell and when someone tells them but it's worth it, and then he says look, but it doesn't suit me now because there's something in there that says something else, and when he says but you had a chance to react, and then he says when, you had a chance to react when, and sori, in the process, in this process, you have a chance to react, then you can say you have, I want it to change in one way or another, but you have to know that you have to have a chance to react. I will always, always tie it to the work that I've been doing and which I understand. If you do not react to something planned in the spatial plan of the municipality or the city, you do not react in any detailed plan, as found in the environmental impact assessment process, you do not react, as found in the process of issuing an allocation permit, as found in the construction permit issue process you do not react. When do you react? When a manager comes out and starts digging, it's too late, all these procedures are over. Why do I speak and try to speak in such a picturesque way? I therefore have this debate that our club will support this law for the simple reason that it is one of the laws that you are actually allowing people in Croatia to go to work in the EU and be an active participant. Not to come in there and say I do it because I have to, I do it because it suits me, I'm in time familiar with everything together, and that's why it's the importance of a law like this, and that's why it's important for that interested public. We discussed the HGK, the HOK on several occasions, so they have a role to play, so their significance is there, so all of these employers who are and who will be registered with them somewhere are important for them to be actively involved. In other words, in conclusion, it is one regulation where we have converted the regulation into law, the form is satisfied, but let's try to finally satisfy the content, let's finally get to those people who really actively participate in this field of capital services, the movement of goods and everything else that they actively participate in. Actively, they can only participate if they start to participate from the very beginning, and the very beginning is foreseen by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89401	Let's move on now. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89402	I would like to thank Mr. President, the President-in-Office of the Proposer. First of all, I have to admit I was a bad weatherman. When the first reading was, and it was Friday morning, I predicted that the second reading of this law would be Friday morning to fill the time until the vote. But here it is, Wednesday morning and we're not filling the time to vote, but we're putting these judicial issues away in a slightly less attractive time. So the principle is the same, these are shades, but here's to admit it for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89403	But what do you mean by a less attractive term?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89404	Well, this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89405	Well, now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89406	Okay. In the National Journal, now little about the law, a regulation on the procedure of official notification of technical regulations and regulations on information society services has been published in the National Journal of the European Union. By taking effect this law, this Regulation will cease to apply. What Croatia's citizens receive in particular from the directive and generally from what has therefore been adopted in 2012 and 2015 and which are implemented in this law. Of these specific directives, they therefore get that if they want to export something to other EU Member States, they have certain technical characteristics and regulations that they must meet and then if they want to sell something, they will sell it more easily. Since it is therefore the law between the two readings has not experienced any changes other than nomotechnical and it is de facto about the implementation of the directives already in 2015. The SDPs have been implemented in some way by the Government on this Regulation on the notification procedure of technical regulations, etc. The SDP advocates' club will support this bill in a second reading. These topics always come well to mention what Croatian citizens, which Croatia gets from EU membership as well as how decisions, regulations, directives and other regulations are made at EU level which are mandatory for us and how many representatives of Croatian citizens, so I primarily think about the euro of MPs and others representing the Republic of Croatia in those EU bodies where decisions are made. So, it can also be representatives of the executive or permanent representatives in Brussels that once again, we are aware and that we are calling on these officials and citizens to follow as much as possible and how decisions are made at EU level, because these are also our representatives, therefore the same as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so are representatives of citizens, parties in the European Parliament and in other EU bodies. And that what we agree with, as in the Croatian Parliament, is that what we disagree with without fear that we will resent someone up there, that we also express ourselves. In this regard, by supporting both content and formal and in any other way what has been passed, we will support the law, and we will closely monitor the way the EU works and decides especially those directly concerned by Croatian citizens. Since it is a community of different countries with different interests, and we know within our country that individual groups, on any basis, also have different interests, know how difficult it is to reconcile. That may be why the process of adoption is more complicated and difficult, regulations are less attractive or less useful, but in some ways we have accepted it by joining the EU. That's why we're going to make some interests easier and make some interests more difficult. But as long as that part of the easier achievement of common interests prevails, there is no need to question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89407	We are going to the sixth debate of the club of representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89408	Thank you. As I have said in the replica of this law by adopting a notification of this regulation which has so far been a regulation, i.e. The implementation of Croatian legislation is the standard that we as a Parliament are working on. It's overwritten, it's a little disguised as regulations and directives and we put it out here and that's, uh, pretty on paper looks like. But here we try to talk about the effects of every law, and that is the least spoken of. And it's also very important to implement these laws as far as these matters are concerned, mainly, about entrepreneurs. We mention a market of half a billion people, we mention the opportunities offered by that market, but what we have made our entrepreneurs small is now a question that has led to impact and results since we joined the EU that the population is getting smaller and smaller. Some will say open borders. So it was not the goal of opening the borders that we had two-thirds of Croatia empty, but that we had people in that area. Is this regulation going to be an effect because I don't know what kind of meetings you've had and what kind of information you've actually had from people who are in entrepreneurship? However, the fact is that there are things here that are well regulated. For example, I have noticed that chemical and other harmful agents can be detected through this information system and products that are harmful to, for example, glycosate GMO products. Now the question is how much this information system will be to encourage it and how much it is, what are these values because the fact that today when we talk about this is why I mentioned this problem when I talk about entrepreneurs, when I talk about this system, about notifying these regulations, then we're talking about the current problems. We can't just talk about the euro and copying regulations and directives. The most important issue for us is the euro. As inflation swallows everything in front of it, prices rise unlovingly. This morning I mentioned in my speech, and since the secretary of state mentioned that as far as water is concerned, it was once again mentioned that public power supplies for 2021 were 200% more expensive. I can give you an example of the water supply of the cetin area and for 2020, the 2021 electricity price so that it could function in the hilly area at all, it's pumps, it was all 2 million and 160 000. For 2022, this year's purchase showed 6 million and 400, which means 4 million and 300 more expensive, which means 200% more expensive, but that's what an entrepreneur and our citizen will have to pay for that more expensive water. It's not a water line, I mean water, I'm talking about water, I'm talking about the Cetina region, I'm talking about such a personal area, I'm talking about a mountainous area. We must have current solutions to these entrepreneurs, to survive in this area at all. Medium and small, and I'm not going to talk about farmers who were brought to the edge, mostly by collecting gas, oil, and mostly gas, artificial fertilisers to these people, today will come more expensive, who knows, 4.5 times more expensive. Therefore, the wheat producer will have to sell the wheat five times more expensive, hence the bread will collect 4, 5 times more expensive, this morning I mentioned the egg, not with the intention of carrying out a terrorist act here but simply to see how our manufacturer will produce an egg, it will have to give up if these prices are such because simply, whoever comes, the cereal for his chickens will increase our imports, poor, unquality food and that information system will help importers, unfortunately because we are importing 3 billion food products today. 3 billion. 700 thousand acres of raw agricultural land. The irrigation system in the problem, I don't know if we have 1% of it seems to me, irrigated agricultural land. So I know you're dealing with the Ministry of Energy around the water, but I'm speaking completely. So it's not enough to rewrite and say this is nice and good. EU Directives and regulations. Imagine if we were to rewrite regulations and directives of the EU and translate it into legislation of the Republic of Croatia, then we do not need to be here at all, but rather look at the real picture. We have the current problem of agricultural land as very important to us development branches, i.e. Self-sufficiency is in crisis. This crisis is increasing to us, so what I think someone will be solidarity with us, someone will give us, let us close the border for 7 days, for this export of goods from another country, import to us, you'll see problems. We're not gonna have any pomidores. And the fields lie to us. We need to be more serious at this point... To improve, to make laws, to implement what is good, means it's not enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the effects? How's the party going? What does this mean for Slavonia? Here, colleague Rose? What does this paper mean for an empty Slavonia? Except for what we're going to say, Lipo, this is written. What does it mean? What does that mean, I don't know, for a citizen, I don't know from which, from which, I don't know, Zadar hinterland? That's fantastic, if it were the production of agricultural goods, it'd be flat wheels, always. But it's unprocessed. We copied everything nice, for who? To import harmful products, so we pig import a billion kunas. Pigs, and our cattlemen can't sell domestic products. And then we sell as Dalmatian, unknown, prosciutto Slavonic, these, they, unfortunately, have no pigs. Everyone whose prosciutto is. Maybe it's... in a truck frozen somewhere passing through Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a problem. We have a problem, we have conditions, we have agricultural land, we have everything. And this directive and the regulation give me this way of notifying, because this notified isn't known what effects are. What will that mean for our entrepreneur, small, medium, our farmer, our food producer? That they would reduce exports with this, that they would remain people in these areas from Dubrovnik to Ilock? Whether it's empty or Dalmatian Zagora, the Sibenik hinterland, so I think, I'm passing the auto when I go to work. Empty. Empty. And not just that. The next year I'm going to pass the law and then I was, when, in 2021 was land, I think, in 2020 was that I could sell agricultural land to foreigners, we have to stop agricultural land from being sold to foreign legal and physical persons. For what? That is why if Croatian citizens, a natural and legal person cannot buy it in Hungary, cannot. And Hungary is in the EU, which is why Hungarians or others could buy our agricultural land, throughout the villages for very little money? Whole villages. Agricultural land. So we need to get serious because agriculture is also, entrepreneurship and very important, perhaps the most important. The survival of people, mainly in crisis situations, secretary of state, we had a problem in crisis situations. As far as energy is concerned, I don't know what it's doing at.../incomprehensible/... the moment of HEP. If 200, 300% of our electricity is collected, I told you about the water lines, so why don't you all sit down together with all the lines and make common public procurement throughout the Republic of Croatia? Because in the end, they're gonna have to pay for it again, so it's not a water line, who's gonna pay for it? So he has to react urgently and promptly, not just talk about the egg. That egg is a terrorist act. So now I'm in the middle of a blue market... I'll bring the eggs down, there's 12 of them, I brought them this morning, and there's also lengths and I'll drink when Nadal's balls are muttering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to play Boris Dvornik. It's not meaningful, but you've brought in that egg to be five times as expensive. Until this situation, and we're talking about the introduction of the euro, at the same time you can't control, not inflation, you're not controlling anything anymore. Nothing. And you will create chaos, and you will boast that you are more European than those in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89409	Thank you, thank you very much. Next individual, we are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89410	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here is a respected secretary of state, first of all one, one nomotechnical note that came into my eyes, this law is called the Law on Notification of Technical Regulations, notification if you Google the notification will drop a statement and this statement is used in Croatian language in the context of diplomacy and even a notification and declaration of war. I see here that someone was translating that, that English information dictionary not when it comes out on the notification on the Windows and so on, that's not it. We were wrong to translate this in a better way in Croatian because I believe this expression of notification is not in line with what the notification in Croatian means. So here's what might be a little late now, given that it's the final bill of law, but that's what it's all about, and maybe some changes to this law make a different name. Now I don't know how it stands in the original I suppose that in the original this European regulation or directive is something of a notification, but we can't translate it in such a way, it's the one that translated it isn't, it's wrong. What you've noticed here is that everyone who's been following the debate about this law is one exceptional law that is closely specialized. So here I think and the wider public can't understand what it is,.../incomprehensible/... with colleagues in the conversation and studying the law here's colleague Mrak has helped me here in fact I realized that it is the law where Croatian businessmen will now be given the opportunity but in fact the obligation in some way to through the competent authorities, which is the Croatian Employers' Association, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and, of course, the Resort Ministry is giving its comments on technical regulations and that the technical regulations of products and services that we produce and place on the European market are placed on that unique list of technical regulations. That'd be pretty much it. So tomorrow, to translate a little into those who are looking at this, tomorrow some sort of water heater that we produce, I don't think we produce it, can actually Končar produce something he will, when he comes to the European market, have the opportunity to make these technical regulations public in the same way, according to the same criteria to everyone in the EU as anyone who produces and places something on the Croatian market has the same obligation. Here, that's it. As far as this law is concerned, nothing changes because these things were pre-arranged by the government's regulation. I think this is a good alignment, but here I'm calling you maybe that's a nomotechnical remark is actually what's crucial to me. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89411	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89412	Your Honor, counsel, if he can do this without a grudge, it's actually notation. Why is that notation? Because, in fact, through our activities, we give another government or member of the EU to know that we intend to do something. As well as all EU members here are actually telling all other members of the Union that they intend to amend some technical regulation, and it is up to us as members of the EU and as businessmen, as entrepreneurs, that we react or do not react unless we do not object, if we are disturbed by the reaction. Just like some association of these employers can react, or maybe I don't know the ministry or the government as such. So it's actually a notification.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89413	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89414	Dear colleague, here's a thank you for the explanation, you've explained it nicely, and I will, even better than the secretary of state, so it's about me or someone informing me through the EU institutions of the intention to amend a regulation. Okay, now here I would not enter into a change and search for an expression of notification, a substitute term in Croatian, perhaps a little later through a replica, but I believe that the expression notification that is really rarely used in Croatian is something else. So which is used for a little bit somehow I'd say more in diplomacy, and less in these technical things, even though this is connected to diplomacy, but thank you for explaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89415	The next debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89416	Dear Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague here we have heard several approaches to this law. I think we're all on the same track and there's no need for something special to be explained except that you'd like to draw attention to one MP saying that this law allows us to respect technical regulations. In fact, it is originally the aim of this law that, after a member puts some notification into the base or that the statement here is to be in line with Mr Zekanovic, it means that the statement that he intends to amend some technical regulation in the area of industry, agriculture or fisheries and, of course, there is still information about this, if this has come to that base, then all those interested in that area can react within 3 months. So the commission reacts in a way that the regulation freezes for 3 months for the country that brings it in, and in the meantime all participants and stakeholders can react particularly in case they feel threatened or if they feel they will not be able to deal with those products they already have. And that's extremely important because if you have a product that's finished and you're trying to place it on the market if a country adopts a new regulation from that area after that you won't be able to place your product. It is therefore important that business people follow it, it is important that the associations follow it, it is important that the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the association of exporters, respond to this by the Croatian Employers' Association. I said before when I had a replica for Mr. Secretary that unfortunately from all of these participants with whom the ministry has been working with so far, only the HUP has published something on its portal and made it clear that something is happening and that something in the regulation is going to turn into a law and that it actually allows in a different way our business, excuse us, our entrepreneurs to participate in the adoption of technical regulations at the level of Europe. Whether or not the European Commission will accept someone’s remarks or not depends on what is really a subject of a particular dentification, the fact is that the entrepreneur has the opportunity to do his part of the job and to protect himself in some way. And it's not just that, it's not just about that, it's about taking care that an entrepreneur can draw attention if something is going on in part of the negative practice in Europe, so then the European Commission can process it in a different way. I talked, before I talked about those emergency notification procedures when it comes to both human health and safety, and I don't think there's anything controversial here, that there's going to be all those who are interested in responding on time and that they're going to bring it in, that they will certainly do everything that is in line with the interests of the entire population of the EU. What I wanted to point out in particular is that I believe that it should be urgent to inform entrepreneurs what is waiting for them or what I can do even though it was already part of the regulation defined and knew what and how, however, the law is still the law and I think it would be good for the ministry, then the HGK, the crafts chamber, the employers' association, and especially the exporting association to react and to inform its members and members that a new law is being passed and that they have the opportunity to react when they adopt new technical regulations within the EU. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89417	Well, we've got more replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89418	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague, we have already debated both in the first reading of this law and discussed the importance of the law and on the subject of actually weak information, poor knowledge that the law, that this law exists, the opportunities that I have and what I have highlighted in my debate, that you, often someone who wants to be a participant, and the EU market is facing the problem at the moment when the problem hits him in the nose to say so, and that there is enough time to do so earlier. In response to how to encourage the public to participate more actively, the secretary of state said there will be no regulation now, so it will be law. That's not the answer. Is the regulation, is the law, therefore, giving some in the sense of another's conduct. But what is important is the importance of this debate and it is important that the public knows and that everyone knows that there are some tools and opportunities when you go to the EU market that you must be prepared for it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89419	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89420	Thank you very much. You've already given me a clear warning in your presentation, and I'm glad you gave me a chance to explain it a little bit more. In fact, I will remind you that this is about the technical regulations that Member States intend to introduce for certain products from industry, agriculture and fisheries and information society services. So we have information before adopting or adopting them that someone intends to change something and that someone intends to do something. It is now on all our associations, chambers, economic chamber, craft chamber, employers' association, exporters to inform their members and members that they can react if something is wrong with them. If you have watched the base that is on the EU's pages, then you can see that you have the right area of opportunity to get information quickly, so that these associations I mentioned earlier have a really good tool that they can react and inform those members and members in time for a specific area of what is happening and inform these people specifically that something is happening and that they can react to something in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89421	We have the next replica of the esteemed MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89422	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Pavic, I am also interested in your opinion on the organization of the Round Tables because only the mere introduction of the proposal for e-consultation has been made lately by less and less people who have actually appeared and made their comments, and on the round table itself are invited by interested parties and in this way it is possible to hear whether the regulation that is foreseen for adoption is possible in Croatia at all because if we do not include the interested public, we become the mere copyists of the EU-level norms, so I would like to know whether it is necessary in your opinion to include the wider circle of people or interested and address at the end of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89423	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89424	Yes, I am already in my opening statement on behalf of the club, and now I am, I stressed that it is extremely important that entrepreneurs know what is going on and what is their destiny for each of their actions. If the entrepreneur does not know what is waiting for him on the market, unless he is aware that something is happening in Europe with his product, unless he is aware that the technical characteristics of that product or the specifications for that product will change, he will happen to be on the market tomorrow and that this product cannot be sold, that he can no longer participate in the trade. After what's next? The following problems are addressed to the domestic market, which is likely to disprove it since there is not enough traffic. Especially those who have been focused on exports. Therefore, he must participate and be informed about this. Of course, round tables are one of the good ideas, and I think it proved to be very good in practice, and I think that the Chamber of Commerce has failed very well, given that it has not done that part of the work in the county organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89425	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89426	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavic, you said that there is a large role of chambers, associations in encouraging actually entrepreneurs to react in time to changes in these technical regulations. In addition to chambers and associations, whether HRT as a public service could also have some emissions that could encourage entrepreneurs to actually respond to these changes in technical regulations because it is still important that they have this information in export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89427	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89428	Dear MPs, I'm glad that you've drawn attention to the fact that we can also inform our public on public television since public television should actually do such things. You should be in the service of the citizens. And if we did such things on public television, there would certainly be a lot more interested and much more involved in public debate. Probably not in this law, we couldn't expect thousands and thousands of these interested to be involved, given that there are so many, but those who are interested, who have seen that there may be some problems in law enforcement, I think they would certainly be involved and to say their opinions. Most of them, I suppose, didn't even know that the law was passed since the ministry relied on associations that I had mentioned before, and these associations didn't actually do their job entirely. For now informing what is written on the website of the Employers' Association will go through mail, and whether round tables will be organised and whether some training will be done later on, it will be seen and the gentleman will probably explain it to us later in his In the final... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89429	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89430	My dear colleague, you yourself have well noticed that there was almost no interest in the public debate, so today the debate here at the plenary session is modest given that it is a prime time. I was wondering if we as a state and as a ministry, even though you're not in front of the ministry, how much work is it, if you think we're teamed up for this, trained, and whether we're going to be able to do this job or this law that we've passed actually work in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89431	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89432	Well, that's what we talked about on the board. We've touched this subject. As far as the Tris Center is concerned, it exists in the ministry, I don't know when the center was founded, but definitely it works, it works. As many employees as I really don't know, I didn't find that information on the Ministry's pages, but what was significant was that this TRIS centre was working with these associations that we mentioned several times. And that teamwork in the center will actually contribute greatly to whether there's going to be something in the plus or the minus. Unless the centre is going to do what needs to be done and if the ministry won't initiate certain activities through these associations, I don't think our entrepreneurs will make it to the green branch. And don't forget we said industry, agriculture and fishing and, of course, Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89433	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89434	Thank you very much, Vice President. There he is. I'm glad this law is here. Most of us all agreed that it was good and needed and in one part it was kind of, firstly, that the transposition of the directive means we have to coordinate with the European and I was very interested in listening, the debate was very good, so here I was, and I involved it in some way to find out that our entrepreneurs should get all the information how and in what way they would even enter the EU market, there it is in this law. And that one of mine in the replica that I gave to the secretary of state because I asked which benefits our economies or especially small companies receive, and in one part he replied to me that yet this law will mean information about products, about the services that our small businesses or our exporters primarily receive from all EU member states. So in all officially recognised languages, and officially recognised, the EU language is also our Croatian language. So, since I come from the north of Croatia or the Varazdin County then I would refer to my colleague Bulja as getting Slavonia by this law, we are up in the north and I really think we will get a lot of it, but that our businessmen should get the information that they know. That the biggest thing and the most important thing in all of this is information. Our exporters who have been on the market for years, and already Europe, when we have joined the EU, know more and less what they need and what they are getting and what is expected of them. We also have these new ones that will probably just enter with some of their products on the EU market, and I think it is there as well, and here's fellow Pavić, and more or less, we've agreed that we should get involved, there's the HUP, but we also have the HGK, we have the Chamber of Commerce, we have all the ones that should be informed in some way, and our economics and exporters themselves will probably be interested in what they expect when they launch their own product or launch into such a large market, as is the EU market. Here it is, so I think that the Law is good, now, whether it is a regulation, or whether it is a regulation, but now it is before us, I think that the Law is quite good, that it has quite well covered, it was not a very big public interest to even include it to say some of its proposals, suggestions and concerns, and I think that the Law is very good, and on all of us, especially in these institutions and organisations that have to inform all its users and their other interested public to be involved, especially if it is those exporters and economic operators that are very strictly tied to the EU market, except for Switzerland and Turkey, there is something, this, that is, that is, that is, change. Well, that's it. There he is. That's what she'd say, I think the law is pretty good anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89435	Thank you. The next final on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club will speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89436	Thank you very much. And here, for the end, just a few more notes. I said in the opening statement that this directive had experienced its change in 2015 and that it was also then defined as a notification process. Here, it took us a little bit more time to turn this regulation that we had in Croatia into a law and to fully transpose the directive into our law. I don't know how many directives have been transposed now, but I think what was important is that it was transferred in an adequate way and I think that all our entrepreneurs who intend to participate in some kind of debate, if they think to participate in some kind of activities related to these notifications, would have the opportunity to do so neatly and properly. I would ask the Ministry's representative to really inform these associations that I mentioned earlier, meaning the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, the Association of Exporters, in time to inform them or in some way encourage them to carry out training of their members, or members, with a view to ensuring that all our entrepreneurs can participate equally in the trade of goods at the level of Europe. We said three are important areas that are standardized here, which are industry, agriculture and fishing. As advanced as we are in the industry, we could talk about it. Our goal is to encourage agriculture and move forward. In fishing, here, we have really enough capacity to make big moves, and if we're going to let someone else bring us regulations that will later prevent us from exporting our products and participating in the trade of goods... Europe, we're not going well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why we think it would be very good for the Ministry to do this part of the work in a way to encourage these associations to inform their users and members as soon as possible about how and how they can participate in the debate at the level of Europe. Of course, there is a Commission that will decide later on what they will accept, but the fact is that our entrepreneurs need to know because otherwise they will be left out of the market in one part. I also remind you that we can provide notifications and that our entrepreneurs can participate in this. Of course, then the members of Europe have the opportunity to influence this, and of course, the goal is to help our entrepreneurs to have those conditions that suit them more. As far as this law is concerned, our Social Democrats Club believes that all the essential provisions of the directive have been transposed in the law and I don't think there's any reason why this law should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89437	Now finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89438	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here it is, the reason for the adoption of the Law is the transposition of EU Directive 2015/1553 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 laying down procedures for the provision of information and technical regulations and rules on information society services. The law prevents the creation of new trade barriers on the internal market. The competent authorities shall inform the EU, the EU Commission and the other Member States and the interested public of draft technical regulations on the products and services of the information society prior to adoption into national legislation. The establishment of this area creates a better and greater application of the notification procedure or of publication in the adoption of technical regulations and regulations on information society services. It is also expected to participate more actively in the implementation of the notification process, draft rules by other Member States with more comments and to publish detailed opinions, and thus better integration into the EU internal market, in line with the Commission's recommendations, as well as more active membership of professional associations and interested public. We see in Appendix 1, which is an indicative list of services which are not covered by Article 1. 3 points. 2 of this Act, which are services which are not provided remotely, services provided in the physical presence of providers and recipients, cha and if electronic devices are used, so here we have medical examinations or treatment of doctors in offices where electronic equipment is used in the presence, in the physical presence of patients. Consultation of the electronic catalogue on trade with the presence of the customer, booking of airline tickets at the travel agency, and that the customer is physically present, electronic games available in these intended premises where the user is present. Second, services which are not provided at a distance whose content is materialised are cash or ticket issue machines, access to road networks and parking spaces or exit and entrance devices, voice telephony and fax services, medical and legal consultation. Services that are not provided at the personal request of the recipient we have television broadcasting services, radio broadcasting services and teletext. Annex 2 shall include the indicative or indicative list of financial services referred to in Article 2. 4.. These are investment services, insurance and reinsurance operations, bank services and pension fund-related transactions. We can say that the final proposal of the Law on Notification Procedure in the field and technical regulations and regulations of information society services is a very important and very good law, especially for our exporters, and primarily for smaller companies because it will contribute to the visibility of their products and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89439	And now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative Marijana Puljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89440	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me just point out once again how important it is for our businessmen, entrepreneurs to pay attention to this very useful tool. In fact, this is a law that defines one of the procedures that should in some way ensure or help freedom of movement of goods and products within the EU market. What's this about? So here we talk about tools, so-called tools. To the TRIS or Technical Regulations Information System, one information system, or to put it simply in a dictionary one application in, is the application of whether the European Commission through which EU Member States inform each other whether they are informing each other, informing the European Commission, but also one another about some technical regulations that are important for entrepreneurs who want to export their products and goods to this market. And it's important to point out, so that's where the regulations are actually cited and those that will actually come and come into effect, so that entrepreneurs are informed in time, right. Here we are already several times colleagues have stressed that often entrepreneurs have no idea about this tool, they don't know that the tool exists, and then it happens when they go out with their products on the market that they may not even be in line with all the rules, technical rules and the EU itself, but in fact other countries that want to export their products, so actually this one, this tool is really how they need me to tell them about it and explain how important it is that they use it. TRIS is publicly available on web sites, so you can search it, you can search all these draft regulations. The participating countries are EU Member States, as well as Lichtenstein, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Turkey. You can see, I can associations and stakeholders and I can make and add my own comments, and I'm saying here I agree with someone maybe this notification process might be kind of vague this whole, this whole law might sound kind of foreign to people, and actually it's a very, very simple thing. This is one database, you can search these technical regulations on the basis of different criteria by number, country, date, product, keywords, etc., so all those interested in exporting to the EU market and the market of these other countries can easily find the rules relating to their product. You can also subscribe and get your notice. I've been meaning to say a few examples here, which are regulations. Let's say in '21. Each year it is a plan to apply to this system, so here is the Regulation on packaging, waste packaging, the Regulation on waste packaging management, so let's say from the Ministry of Agriculture specification of products, proven quality for fresh consumption eggs, this is kind of popular lately, product specification, proven quality for lamb and goatmeat, for example from the area of spatial regulation of technical regulations for concrete stakes, the Regulation of the MUP area, the Regulation on the conditions and method of implementation of technical protection and the like. So all these rules are in some way important to those entrepreneurs who have products in these areas and it is important to actually consult them and see if their products are in line with those rules. Here, I join those who will support this law here, and I would point out once more and pay attention to whether our entrepreneurs should be interested and see what TRIS is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89441	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. So respected MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, are now moving to a united debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda scheduled for today, these are: - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 207 and - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Areas and Seats, second reading, P.Z. No. 209. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, please. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I see the esteemed representative of the coat of arms has requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89444	I am, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, let me protest sharply that there is no minister present at this point. This is an important topic for the resort we're talking about. It's a judicial resor. It is a resort in which Croatia and mildly does not stand well. Justice doesn't work. And what do we do? We're trying to move things from a dead end. And of course we're not gonna make it. In our first reading, we presented a number of criticisms and concrete suggestions on what should be done. Almost nothing accepted. The explanations are ridiculous, it's not the subject of this law, we'll talk about it in the future, not now. And what did we suggest? We suggested stricter control of the judge's property cards and a clear sanctioning of the offender, the ventilation system. We have also proposed strengthening of tight measures and strong responsibilities. We suggested strengthening education. We talked about public publishing of all cases and all this in the light of the bill and not now, so don't push us, so don't do anything concrete. And the result of a set of laws that won't bring about a real change, a set of laws that in a year's time, in two years we'll be back here talking about how the situation in the judiciary is getting worse and worse and how nothing changes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you are proposing changes to the CAP in it to run deadlines, and you did not foresee mechanisms or ensure that the infringements of these deadlines are sanctioned and that they really bear a strong responsibility for what they do not do. Unfortunately, we cannot support this, because this real shift will not bring the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89445	Thank you very much. Of course the break will be approved. Stanku was also requested by the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89446	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes to discuss once again the systematic and persistent ignoring of opposition appeals to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally send to the Croatian Parliament a package of real and not cosmetic reform laws to implement a real and comprehensive reform of the judiciary. If there is no capacity in the Government to make such reform proposals of the law and write, ask the President of the Supreme Court, Radovan Dobrinić, to give you his programme of work that he defended before the Committee on Justice and in which he outlined the deep diagnosis of the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary and the reform proposals which were obviously sufficient reason to elect him as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, the Government does not seem to be responsible for clearing up the situation in the judiciary, so that on that chess plate, the judiciary can see clearly who the king and queen are, who the pawns are, and who the horses are, and who's really making the key moves. If the Government has no intention of real justice reforming Croatia, it will evict the younger population, and when the age of the heavenly plains of Croatia will be a country without a population, so there will be no need for justice or judicial reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89447	Stanku also asked for the Green-Left bloc club, so Sandra Bencic, a respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89448	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club for 10 minutes, and in order to re-communicate with the other colleagues in the opposition primarily the fact that we have yet to see another example of the Facebook reform, an attempt in fact to show that something is being done in front of the public and all with the aim of actually not having any radical change happen in the justice system. [[Intruder Reiner: Of course I'll grant a break from the respected representative Nadj, forgive the interruption.]] We already mentioned at the press conference today, that we have a completely absurd situation, very typical of this government, which is that at this point you have a national judicial plan of 2021 at your public consultation. By 2027 which, therefore, has not yet reached this Parliament, and that, at the same time, before the national plan is presented to the public and before it is adopted, we are changing the laws of force for the judicial system. So, the Law on Courts, the Law on Areas of Courts, the Law on State Attorney's Office. So how is it possible to justify going to any changes, and then after that you bring a plan about what kind of change we want and what we want to achieve in the next 7 years? So it's already in itself showing that this is a freak. Second. There is still no intervention in the system of organisation, territorial organisation of courts, no intervention in the system and jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council. We're still not going to get a tight court, we're still not going to professionalise the functions within the DSV that would allow it. So there's no movement compared to before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89449	Thank you very much. Stanko was also requested by the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89450	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the center and GLAS party club for further consultations. I would like to draw attention to one of the most important facts that are happening to these amendments to the law, as well as to the entire Croatian public. So, first of all, we need to publicly say that we are the only country within the EU, and perhaps the only country in the world in which the judiciary is tailored by a political party legally convicted of corruption. And now, if this package of laws is adopted, we will also be the only country in the EU over whose judges are subject to regular, continuous, periodic, security checks. A situation in which any authority, so that authority is both the most honest and the best, has the power to hold judges in their hands because it can manipulate security checks would be bad and dangerous for the rule of law and for the independence of the judiciary. And we are now going to put such power into the hands of the notorous and criminal HDZ through these amendments to the Law of Courts. Security checks cannot in themselves achieve the desired results in reducing corruption risks because security checks eliminate some other risks for the state and for the government is primarily linked to individuals and groups acting contrary to the legal order. The detection of corruption and the reduction of corruption risks serve some other procedures. Procedures for verifying property cards, procedures for verifying how to acquire assets and better protection of whistles that only have direct knowledge of the fact that a corrupt criminal offence has occurred. In these areas, this government has done nothing but incapacitate those bodies that could have dealt with such topics. I therefore call on the proposed amendments to the law to say one decisive no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89451	Stanko was also requested by the Justice Party of Croatia, according to a respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89452	Thank you, Vice President... spoke in the first reading and... [[Speech is not enabled.]] I'll take a few articles. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So Article 15 is considered constitutionally legal, but also Article 38, so I'm going to explain it a little more in detail. So it is a norm that I think the Croatian public clearly knows that the law comes into force 8 days after the publication in the National Journal, so in the official opinion of the Republic of Croatia, and here in this proposal, the law continues to enter into force on 1 January 2022. So, I am talking about a breach of the principle of retroactivity that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not foresee, or I believe that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice themselves should not violate the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89453	Stanko was also requested by the HSS Party, the Workers' Front, and the honourable representative Katarina Peovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89454	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes to pay a little more attention to this law that obviously introduces changes just so no change can happen. It means a change that guarantees that there will be no change. What we see from those really cosmetic changes that are in this law problematicly recentralising power into the hands of the ministry, in the hands of a minister who will actually be able to decide these provisions and who will be employed and what kind of expert exam will be passed and whether this employee has the quality to remain in that position, I don't know who gives the qualification means the Minister to determine what kind of professional exam even the additional staff needs to take. And on the other hand, we see again in this law a dangerous social Darwinist again structure where those who are lower, who have lower coefficients, such as officials, are in opposition to those with higher coefficients and again imposes additional pressures and additional and educational and other criteria of principle, etc., which we do not consider ourselves to be problematic, but if you don't actually have any additional education, investment in that system that would follow it then that actually means what we've been following for years, so let's say in the jumping departments of county courts, increasing the pressure on the officials and tenants who, although they pass security checks, have not received a raise in relation to judges. So this form of conflict is meant to be introduced into this, in this law, so we don't welcome this law anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89455	Stanku was also requested by the HDZ Representatives' Club, according to a respected representative, Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89456	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues here we have had the opportunity to hear in these six opposition committee clubs that this law is no good in short, that this law is no good, that there is no reform and that nothing is really good. There have been a lot of words here about the need to reform the judiciary, but since the reforms we haven't heard an R. Unlike that, this very bill of law and one and the other, both on courts and on areas and the courts' seats gives a big step, it actually makes a big step in this particular area. First of all, we have recently witnessed in the election of the President of the Supreme Court, some stakeholders have indicated that there are certain ambiguities, indeterminateness in the procedure itself. This law also harmonizes and evens. Also, there were words to mention the specializations of judges in the field of therefore in matters of family relations which I think is a significant step in relation to first reading and a right in this second one, i.e. in this final draft of the law. Here were words from counterpart Dalia Oreshkovic to hold the HDZ in the hands of the judiciary and how the ruling majority were proposing laws. So I'm asking who should be proposing laws? So whether the MP who wins the election is 0.16% or should do so is the ruling majority. As far as security checks are concerned, I think it's quite clear and evident from the provision that it's proposed who ultimately brings and gives the last word on security changes, checks and I think it's actually a solution that's already existed so far for jump judges, so the periodic check now refers to all the judges of municipal, commercial and county, a good solution and a clue to what you've been doing in some of your discussions over the past two years since you've actually pointed out here. It is therefore a normative harmonisation and a good proposal. As the ruling coalition, we have been prepared to listen to all your proposals and all of what you say as reforms, however, I repeat reforms, nor R. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89457	I will, of course, approve all breaks with the fact that we will continue in accordance with Article 293b, but the previously respected representative Dalia Oreshković has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89458	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been injured, because calling for a percentage with which someone became a representative in the Croatian Parliament is a purely demeaning not only of the representatives but also of the citizens who have declared themselves in the elections as they have declared themselves. A fellow Habian, for your information, is allowed to propose laws to each of us and to me or to any of us. What I pointed out in my request for a break is the fact that here the law proposes a political party convicted of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89459	Thank you very much, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Now, as I said, we will not go in accordance with Article 203 93b. on a 10 minute break than we will continue and will speak on behalf of the rapporteur as announced by the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89460	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us a debate on the final proposal of the Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Before starting to measure the final text of the law, I would say that this morning we accepted on the Committee on Legislative Amendments where these entire set of laws that we are discussing today enter into force on 1 March 2022 so that, given the procedure in the assembly at the time we discussed, we do not go retroactively. As for Justice Minister Ivan Malenica, he would certainly be with MPs at the Croatian Parliament today but the international obligations of the Minister of Justice in France, the minister is on his way to France and I am changing him here today in the assembly so that there is no wrong intention of the minister. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Courts, the conditions for the establishment of specialised family departments in municipal courts shall be laid down, the powers of the High Criminal Court shall be specified, the questions relating to the selection procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the obligation of periodic security checks shall be imposed on all judges. In addition, this legislative proposal revises the normative framework of permanent judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters, further regulates provisions on ministry officials working on the affairs of the insurance of judicial authorities and judicial inspection as well as on court officials. As regards the debate and public consultation regarding security checks, the Law on the State Judicial Council provides for the implementation of security checks prior to the appointment of judges, and the Law on Courts to provide security checks for judges and court officials working on the so-called so-called. Jumping objects. As stated in the debates of the MPs, a final assessment of the existence of security barriers on the basis of the report shall be carried out by a special council whose members of the Supreme Court Judges will be appointed by the General Session of the Supreme Court. Also asked questions about this periodic security check within 5 years here, the final text of the law states the possibility of ex post security checks, in those situations where there are certain findings or circumstances which, in which case, will be decided on the proposal of the President of the Court of Justice, set the possibility and need for additional security checks. The presidents of the courts will submit requests for the renewal of security checks through the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to the Security Intelligence Agency. As regards the course of action, it is also related to the Security Intelligence Agency Act, therefore, and on the basis of the talks and opinions carried out, the conditions for the adoption of the rules, the procedures for the basic security checks to be carried out within the time limits provided for by this law. For all judges for whom a security check has not been carried out or has been carried out more than 5 years ago, the obligation to renew security checks after the entry into force of this law shall be prescribed. As regards the provisions concerning the election of the President of the Supreme Court, in accordance with the legal considerations of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the current decision of the Law on Courts, we specify the provisions on the procedure for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The State Judicial Council shall only provide the President of the Republic with timely and complete applications. If the President of the Republic does not propose a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion of the committee responsible and of the General Session of the Supreme Court, or if the proposed candidate for the President of the Supreme Court is not elected in the Croatian Parliament, the State Judicial Council will cancel the call and, no later than 8 days, resume the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court. In the event that the President of the Supreme Court is suspended from office and the new President of the State Judicial Council is not elected, the Supreme Court will appoint judges to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration until the President of the Supreme Court is elected. Therefore, in relation to the valid solution when the President of the Supreme Court, acting or vice-president, was changed by automation, the power was now conferred on the State Judicial Council to appoint, under the envisaged procedure, a person who would therefore change the President of the Supreme Court as acting Head of Administration until a new President of the Supreme Court was elected. As regards judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters, since the existing system of decision-making on the status issues of permanent judicial experts, assessors and interpreters generates principle practice because they are appointed by the county trade courts of these amendments, we want to give authority to the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary to be unified and to be equal to the treatment of all courts. This will more clearly define their rights and obligations but also control mechanisms. In addition, since a fundamental difference has been lost over time between permanent judicial experts and assessors, it is proposed to suspend the special arrangement for permanent judicial assessors and, therefore, the appointed judicial assessors will continue to carry out their duties as court experts. In addition, we propose the abolition of the four-year period of appointment and their permanent appointment as long as there are prescribed conditions, and the status of a court expert will no longer be recognised in particular by legal persons because it is the tasks that are exclusively carried out in person. As regards family departments, in order to ensure effective and quality legal protection in family legal matters, specialised judicial departments will be established in municipal courts established by special law. Only judges who meet the specific conditions of professional training to be governed by a special regulation may be assigned to those departments. These judges will be appointed for five years by the President of the Supreme Court. In particular, a number of experts will be deployed in these judicial departments according to a specific decision by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary and of the administration. As regards other changes, therefore, in order to further encourage the professional training of judges, provisions on their professional training are amended. As unsatisfactory, the prescribed obligation to perfect at least 1 a year is deleted, and the dynamics of mandatory professional training of judges will be governed by a special regulation, meaning in real life, that these professional trainings will need to be done not now once a year but more times over one year, depending on which specialised branch of law and conduct. In the process of recognising the right of judicial officials to compensation for a separate life from our family, we have defined the concept of family members. For law enforcement officers, or judicial officers, we introduce new restrictions, the presence of any amount of alcohol in the body during their work will be a particularly serious violation of official duty. In addition, the status issues of these officers are in line with the provisions of the Penal Code. When it comes to directors of the judicial administration, we specify the conditions for the schedule to this post and prescribe that the director of the judicial administration have all the larger courts with 15 or more judges and all the higher courts in the Republic of Croatia. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts provides that municipal courts at the headquarters of county courts and the Municipal Court in New Zagreb are competent to decide in matters governed by family relations. These amendments shall establish 16 family departments and the conditions for which the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts are laid down. As for these changes in both of these laws, we believe that the prerequisite for restoring citizens' trust in the judiciary is these changes, they must be comprehensive and cover every segment of the judiciary, of quality rules, modern tools and quality infrastructure. Dear MPs and MPs, we propose that both laws in HS be accepted as important organisational laws to improve the functioning and operation of the Croatian judicial system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89461	Thank you. We've got a whole series of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89462	Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Secretary of State, in essence and so far, the Presidents of the Courts had the opportunity or all the tools in their hands to make a particular court more effective or functional. The appointment of the Director of the Court of Justice at all major courts, therefore, you have actually confirmed that this has not happened previously. So, what tools do you think that the directors will mention by appointing them and using what, in fact, make the situation in courts to which they are appointed better and more effective than what has been so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89463	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89464	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for the practice of the director of the judiciary, we already have it in the judicial system. This has proved to be a useful and important duty in court, that the presidents of the courts are relieved of actions that are not related only to the functioning of the court in terms of monitoring the case, the assignment of work to individual judges, so that the judicial directors of the administration in the laws have the exact powers and duties that they can do. It has been shown that they have greatly disbursed the presidents of the courts from those actions that would not fall within the jurisdiction of the President of the Court as provided for in the former regulations. So the assessment is ours, but study also means the proportionality of such duties on the ground that it was necessary and we believe that it will contribute to better quality work of the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89465	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, as I said, I don't think this law will bring any fundamental changes. One of the best examples is the story of changes to the CAP. Certain deadlines are foreseen which should be defined when decisions are made in certain matters, however, these deadlines are instructive, and we are not talking about how we will ensure a firm responsibility for those who will violate those deadlines. Why am I saying that? And you and I know in how many cases there are already certain instructive deadlines, to start only from disturbing the property, and on and on, labour disputes, when these deadlines are not respected, how many cases have we had that one judge's duties have ceased because he repeatedly violates the deadline? Not really. Not really. But what I want to ask you specifically, this morning, the Justice Committee adopted an amendment concerning the days of judgment relating to family disputes in those courts where there will be no more such departments. What's the position of the Ministry and Government on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89467	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89468	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I do not agree with you that these are not important changes, we also consider important organisational changes and definitely a step forward in relation to the regulation that we have today. As regards the possibility, therefore, that we, as the executive authority, influence the proceedings of the courts by introducing these deadlines on the Law on Procedural Procedure, so we have introduced a period of one year to three years with the monitoring of the permanent action plans that the courts and the presidents of the courts are doing, but with the reason that a case takes a long period of action, we do not have the means to say that some subject is less or more scope, that we can by law determine which time of its conduct will be in a specific case. As for tight procedures, I don't know if you've been a member of the DSV, but there are exact penalties for those who come under the strict treatment of the DSV. As for the amendments you said, we accepted it and therefore provided the possibility that the presidents of the courts in the permanent services, so in their field of the county court allow the debate outside the seat municipal courts in county... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89469	The esteemed representative of the coat of arms has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it's an injury. 238 for a violation of the dignity of all of us here by bringing lies. Mr. Secretary of State, the Justice Minister is next to the Supreme Court President, the only authorised person to press charges against every judge in the Republic of Croatia. So there's a possibility that these procedures can be initiated to violate these things, but the minister doesn't use them. By speaking differently, you bring out the harshest falsehood and you insult the dignity and reason of all of us here, as well as all the citizens who have problems with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89471	Okay. Thank you very much, and you are aware that it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The Republic has a respected representative, Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89472	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Article 4 shall apply from 2014. The law on areas and courts, and just to be clear, is a decision on appeals against first-degree decisions, so, let's say, when it comes to family relations, the County Court of Pula is determined. The County Court in Varazdin and Velika Gorica is determined when it comes to land-booking. Now this proposal puts an end to it and re-determining second-degree cases shall be determined by each County Court in the jurisdiction of the municipal court. Why is that? In these eight years, have there been any problems with the second-degree trial, and I think we're working on it then with decisions, we're going back a little bit to something that was before 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89473	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89474	Thank you very much. Dear MPs are about monitoring the situation on the ground in all courts, so is this about the areas of county courts you said, whether others. Therefore, this workload was not equal everywhere, and the time of action in certain courts was not the same. So now we want this practice, that this acceleration of work and that availability is exactly the same, so we're not going back to a worse regulation than we think, by monitoring the weather conditions on the ground, we've determined that this is a better solution, so this solution is now within the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89475	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89476	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected State Secretarys, this bill improves some material rights of judicial officers working on insurance such as law, introduces the right to severance and the right to family assistance as well as those working in the prison system. However, I am curious, there has also been a change in one of the general conditions for the admission of trainees to these judicial officers working on security, which is that the limit for the reception is 35 years. Before that border seemed different to me for 30 years, so that's where the situation is getting better. I wonder why you've changed this line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89477	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89478	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The simple reason for this age-limit was to allow a larger number of people to participate, enter the justice police system either for the judicial police, for the insurance of judicial authorities, or for the judicial officers working in the prison system. That was a pretty big interest. Unfortunately, this restriction of up to 30 years has created certain problems in the functioning of the system, and we also have not been able to accept candidates who, according to all qualifications, have met the conditions. What I can announce here in front of the Justice and Administration Ministry is that the judicial police of the prison system and the judicial police of this for the insurance of the judicial authorities put it in one frame, that it be the judicial police, that is, the justice department and the administration, where it will connect, and where we will even greater rights to enable and protect people who have very specific working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89479	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89480	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. So, that the situation in the judiciary is bad, I think we can all agree, that when the work of judges is assessed, and when judges self-evaluate in their work, they give themselves bad grades and those researches that show that they themselves think it's not good. What he's trying to prove to be a reform is not a reform, this is an attempt to try to improve something. I feel like when I don't know you, you have a disease, then you get something like a camel, so it won't make you feel any worse, but you won't get any better. What's my question is this? One way to open and solve, trying to detect problems in the judiciary is openness. So, transparency and the public of all decisions. In our Resilience and Recovery Plan, there is an obligation to make all decisions taken in court publicly available. When is it certain to expect it to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89481	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89482	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, provide for the reform in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. So, given the entire technology of the information system that needs to be applied and the way we're going to do it, we've committed ourselves to making this availability of judicial decisions at this time to the end, so from 2022 to 2026, it depends on the dynamics, so the way we're going to do it. So we've accepted it as our obligation but you're aware that it's one big informational, so it's a thing. I think we'll be able to do it by the end of our deadlines. Now that general assessment of the state of justice. We were on the board together today. I believe it is justified to criticise you for being an opposition, but some of the measures we have taken are certainly an improvement in the situation that we have had so far in organisational but also in the security and access of justice to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89483	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Secretary of State, the proposed laws provide for the establishment or establishment of specialised departments to deal exclusively with matters in the field of family law. It is also foreseen that such cases are being done in the future only seems to me to 16 municipal courts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But I will discuss this later in an individual debate and the proposed amendment by the Justice Committee. I'm interested in your comments which are actually expectations of these future specialised departments that will deal exclusively with matters in the field of family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89485	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89486	Thank you very much. Your Honor, our main purpose was to strengthen our protection in these family-law relations, so in terms of the specific sensitivity of these cases. As regards the solution we had in our first reading and in relation to this final text of the law and in relation to the debate today in the Justice Committee, we accepted the amendment in such a way that the presidents of the county courts where the municipal courts are located in the county courts will be able to delegate the cases of such a kind to their permanent services, therefore to municipal courts on the territory of that county court to every specific case, so that we make it available to the citizens in those cases that they do not have to come to the headquarters of the county courts where the municipal courts are. So here is the amendment of the Justice Committee and we will therefore put it in the final text of the law, given the procedure for amendments. It is certainly our intention to improve the situation on the ground and not to endanger, therefore, the functioning of the system as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89487	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89488	Thank you. Your honors were mentioned in your presentation of the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb, which falls under the jurisdiction of the County Court in Velika Gorica. We therefore conclude and ask you why is the Municipal Court in New Zagreb privileged by what you have said in relation to other municipal courts located outside the headquarters of the county courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89489	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89490	Honorable MPs, it is not about whether the court is privileged or not, I said that we are following that burden of the courts, so research, monitoring how much the workload of a particular court is, in this case we have assessed that for the new court in New Zagreb, it is necessary and we have accepted that, therefore, it is not the opinion of the few of us in the Ministry of Justice, but of the people who follow the situation in the courts and the movement of cases in numbers, time of resolution, the way of the court's availability to our citizens. All we've done is make it more accessible and faster to solve the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89491	- Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89492	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, I would like to point out once again the importance of the adoption of the amendment of the Committee on Justice to which it is addressed. 6 adds, in Art. 1 adds chapter 6 which provides that the presidents of the county courts will ensure the conditions for taking procedural actions under the law governing family relations in other municipal courts to be undermined by a particular county court. Otherwise, many of our fellow citizens should travel to the remote seats of county courts. That's what I'd say. As a result of the family-law cases they have so far dealt with in their town, they had to travel to Karlovac, which is 165 km away, and from certain parts of the county, it is even 200 km in one direction. There is no need to stress how much costs they are, especially in the county that is unconnected, where there is no line traffic and where people would really be difficult to come to Karlovac for debates from family items. [[Thank you. Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89493	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89494	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the answer is similar to that of MP Mandaric. It is that, after assessing the situation, we have decided that the presidents of the county courts, so on their own ground, will decide when and in what way such a case will be delegated to the permanent service in view of the situation, hence greater availability for citizens, the implementation of discussions on, in the permanent services and on the place where decisions are to be taken, and this is the question asked, so the representative of the county court will, in any particular case, make his decision. We don't think there's any reason why a decision can't be made in permanent service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89495	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89496	Thank you. These changes increase pressure on court officials and in that segment, means vocational education and professional examinations, as well as security checks. Everyone agrees that our judiciary is not in good shape, especially the problem of corruption that needs to be addressed. I am interested in whether this pressure on officials who, of course, can be good, also monitors the financial well-being of officials, given the specific case, means the jumping departments of county courts where the officials themselves are, means when they enter those jumps, they are denied that raise they received judges. Has there been a raise in their salaries and, if not, why and how will this be followed by an increase in the salary of officials, a rise in the salaries of judges? Is there any equivalent or any proportionality in that because I'm going to warn people that are going through a first-degree security check every little bit? And that they live in really difficult conditions because of that. [[Thank you. Time. Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89497	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89498	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We do not consider these changes to be a special pressure on officials working in the system, either the ministry, any courts, either the state's attorney's office or the USKOK, so there are already certain legal solutions relating to officials. I agree with you that it is our obligation to provide officials with higher salaries and better coefficients, but I also believe that you agree with me that the general circumstances in which we work and the financial situation will go hand in hand with this. We've had some changes, we've had some proposals, it's a large number of employees working in the system, and it's not a significant amount to increase financial resources. Our intention is to make a shift in this area in the future, and also, this specialization and additional training is one of the obligations because the time we worked 10 or 20 years ago and the time we live in the circumstances in which we live and the situations we are working on has changed significantly, and further training is needed for people who work in our systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89499	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89500	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We have heard through the lines that, although the Law itself brings a series of improvements, both in the entire justice system and in certain activities, and employees and officials, that the Justice Committee has also proposed certain amendments, so that one amendment applies primarily in a clear way, selecting who can apply for a permanent judicial interpreter, i.e. clearer criteria, so I would ask you to say what the amendment is and what will be the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the relevant Ministry of Justice on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89501	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89502	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So today on the Justice Committee, in addition to the amendments to family departments, we discussed these permanent interpretations. We have therefore accepted that the obligation to be only a high professional preparer, we now lower both to the level and to more professional arrangements, so that the person who will be a permanent court interpreter must have completed a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate or graduate university study or a pre-graduate university study. So we allow a larger number of people to access this service, and also, maybe this provision has been a little too far-fetched, so here we have, after the debate, accepted this solution as a solution that we will put into the final text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89503	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You want to state the reasons why the government insists on pushing the security checks for all judges appointed on the day of entry into force of this Act although you have received the Supreme Court's testimony that these provisions are unconstitutional because in fact that they are a hidden lustration and that no European country has such a system is actually breaking the principle of trodiocy of power is the SOA actually part of the executive authority that controls then judicial officials. You want to state the reasons and why don't you actually include a more tax administration that will look at this disproportionately possible property and income of judges?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89505	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89506	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I don't know if it's your personal position now, so everything you're talking about has been studied, and the opinion of the Constitutional Court. We also compared the situation in other countries. It is true that, with certain amendments to the law, we have had contacts with the European Commission on this. We have no influence as executive authority on the security checks of judges for several reasons. The security checks of judges shall be carried out by SOA in accordance with the SOA Act and there shall be rules in which these security checks may be carried out. The SOA also determines only the factual situation, the SOA does not conclude whether or not there is an obstacle, so the special council that will be in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will also decide on a special college in the head of the State's attorney once it has received a report on whether there are obstacles and will then be subject to a strict procedure under the DSV Act or the Law on the State's Attorney's Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89507	Thank you very much. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89508	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as I mentioned in the pause, so we recently conducted the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. At that time, some stakeholders pointed out that the provision was an article. 44.a. Therefore, the existing Law on Courts is unclear and unarranged, but in the first reading therefore there have been some changes, now between these two readings we have some additional corrections, so here I would ask you briefly if you could meet colleagues and fellow MPs precisely with these amendments of the so-called Article. 44.a. Court law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89509	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89510	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have, above all, imposed deadlines in these proceedings. The deadline for obtaining the previous opinion of the committee responsible and the general session has been defined, the President shall request... a period of 8 days from the date of receipt of the application, and it is considered not necessary for those bodies to prescribe a specific time limit as regards HS. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the deadline for President of the Republic is concerned, he is 15 days. If the HS does not select any candidate or candidate proposed by the President or the President within the time limit, so by procedure carried out by the Assembly, the DSV will cancel the tender and call a new tender, a public call, or within 8 days. So there's a precise handling of DSV after the procedure goes down in the assembly. Just as we have given special authority to avoid any different interpretations, opinions, biases of this or that of the DSV to appoint the acting chief of the Supreme Court until the election of the President of the Court here in HS, so clearly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89511	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89512	Thank you. Dear Proposer, it is a fact that the opinion of the general session of the Supreme Court is not as part of the regular material delivered to all MPs. I think it's a very bad practice, I don't know why you're hiding it. The second thing, the very fact that you did not respect the content of what the General Court held as people who have both authority and expertise and knowledge suggests that you do not care at all about the judiciary or the quality of the improvements, you care about keeping the judiciary in your hands. Representatives of the European Association and Judges' Associations, as well as the European Commission, have also declared themselves against such periodic security checks. This is indeed an unprecedented attack on the independence of the judiciary, and I do not know why you can defend such a solution as is deviating from the usual standards at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89513	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89514	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there is no deviation from the standard, so we believe that these legal decisions are being influenced and we want to make the situation transparent and clear. On the one hand, the Ministry of Justice is called that it does nothing in the fight against corruption, the other side calls on judges to do this or that in some courts, pointing to everyone and everyone. Now that rules are strictly and strictly laid down, what is the issue if any judge has an obligation to verify in accordance with the law, in accordance with the SOA laws. It will also not decide policy on anyone but the judge himself, because the state lawyers themselves, in accordance with the law and procedures provided for by the DSV Act or the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, will decide whether there is a need to initiate or not by the body consisting of persons in those systems. The situation is pure as tears, clean hands, no influence on anyone, so transparently and clearly without any pressure on... I don't know what's not clear to you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89515	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89516	State Secretary, the reorganisation of the judiciary in the direction of specialisation is certainly a positive change, especially in these matters in family relations because they require great knowledge to be achieved at the end and professional training. This is important because a child appears as a party to the proceedings or only as an entity whose rights are subsequently threatened. I wonder what the number of judges in specialised judicial departments for family relations will depend on, e.g. The number of cases, do you think that would lead to a quicker completion of the procedure? I also welcome the proposed amendment of the Committee on Justice relating to the taking of actions in other municipal courts because of the availability of a trial in smaller and remote areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89517	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89518	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, all these changes are a matter of organisational change in terms of better functioning of the trial in general compared to, in particular, what you point out now, these are family legal protection, family relations, so there is a need for the speed of action, especially the sensitivity of the subject and the person who will be specialised and professional to be able to work on these items. Part of these rules apply to that Law on Juvenile Courts, etc. Everything we've been tracking, we've been following the workload of the courts, so there are special services dealing with this in cooperation with the presidents of the courts to see what the workload of individual courts is. That's how these laws changed. So these changes were attended by other than our people, experts from the Ministry of Justice and Administration and representatives of the judicial authority and people working on sensitive issues and experts from the university. So nothing was made overnight, not one regulation, not one decision. We consider these changes, so depending on the number of cases, depending on the workload, we have given tools to the presidents of the courts in order to make justice more accessible to the citizens. It's the only instinct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89519	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89520	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is suggested in the first reading that competent municipal courts are in the headquarters of county courts for family matters, and now introduce that day of judgment which will mean, for example, that an educated judge from Slavonski Brod will come to those days of office in Požeg. This raises the question and local competences of the Municipal Court, the organisation of space, the additional costs, but also the provision of urgency in such procedures. This organized way of working is better than what we had a chance to see in our first reading. As regards the availability of services to citizens now, they will not have to travel from these 70km of remote cities as far as jurisdiction is concerned. However, the opportunity for judges or future generations of judges in existing municipal courts to be regularly educated and additionally as far as decisions are concerned for the best interests of children are concerned, and that certainly means a kind of loss for the local community. You have also missed these changes to protect and most vulnerable to domestic violence, i.e. victims, and that such items are not covered by this specialization. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89521	Time, thank you. Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89522	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I think I've given part of the answer so far in replicas related to why we've decided on such a solution that the Presidents of the County Courts can delegate such cases to permanent services. I don't think we've denied anyone specialization in future advances. I said that the presidents of the county courts, so in the seats of the municipal courts, anyone who has the affinity to specialise in a particular right will make it possible. We're going to the additional rules, so it's not the law itself, these laws sufficiently elaborated in a way that makes everything crystal clear. There are always rules that follow certain actions, and we will certainly make sure that everyone who has affinity, expertise and the need to perfect it gets it. So, if you think you've found some kind of legal void somewhere, we'll sort it out. It is not the proposal or government's intention to limit anyone's progress specifically in sensitive cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89523	Thank you. Mrs. Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89524	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has kept allowing for years for provisions determining the actual and local jurisdiction of courts to be found in other laws, and very often in material-legal ones that regulate certain legal institutes, by being inadmissible in legally regulated countries. So the Court Act is a lex specialis for the actual and local jurisdiction of the courts. An equivalent example of such a constitutionally unacceptable approach is, for example, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89525	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89526	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I don't know what to tell you right now. I wouldn't agree with you. I believe that the existing legal solutions are consistent with absolutely all constitutional provisions and that we have not violated anything at all. I don't know why you think the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest as a lex specialis is something contrary to these laws. I think it's all in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. I don't mean to offend you, I may not have understood the question, but here I don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89527	Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89528	I note that between the two readings, Article 3 has been broken down in a way that we have changes in jurisdiction by keeping the City Court in Dubrovnik that part of which is related to transport. However, they passed over to the Municipal Court in Split if it is related to copyright and intellectual property, etc. So she's doing the public especially of Dubrovnik-Neretva that we know if it's because of the humane sub-capacitation of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik or because she doesn't have that much of a case and it's about that part?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89529	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89530	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fabianic, therefore there are more cases in the Split court. We also accepted the opinion if you looked at the law in the reasons of the State Intellectual Property Institute. So in these specific cases, given the number of judges, the expertise of the judges and the location of the case, we were more likely to keep it in Split and because of the speed of resolution and that people do not travel to this court there or vice versa. So, more organisational and technical reasons for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89531	Thank you very much. Video of Mrs. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89532	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As in my first reading, I took note of the importance of adopting the National Strategy for the Rights of Children, because for the establishment of specialised family courts, or specialisation of judges for working on status and family matters, it is precisely this strategy that the Government adopted in 2014 and this is for the period until 2020. We are already in 2022 and the National Strategy has expired in 2020. My question is when you plan to bring it in, because we are aware that one of the strategic documents that promotes child rights is this same strategy that has not yet been adopted. That's where we're talking about some kind of shift of work, and one of the key documents we haven't brought in yet. Why didn't you bring it and when will you bring it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89533	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89534	Thank you very much. I welcome the esteemed representative. I think there's a little bit of interference between justice and other ministries. I am sure that in these laws and the adoption of amendments and the addition of a set of laws from the Ministry of Justice and Administration, as well as other ministries have ruled in 2019 and 2020, as well as in 2021 relating to the covid situation. So, I think that certain things would have accelerated and already resolved if we hadn't had a lockdown and a restriction in the work of the courts, and also a certain new practice that we had to use different technologies in order to make the courts, the state's attorneys and the bodies of judicial persecution and the system in general work. So I don't think that the intention of hitchhiking anything but the objective domestic and world circumstances of health related to Covid have done their part. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89535	Thank you, you don't have any more, so far you don't have any more replicas. Does he want to take the word of the board representatives? Yeah, well, well, yeah, I don't know, wait. I'm opening up, I'm opening up a debate. The first is the turn of Mr Jaksic and Bauk, and the first is Mr Jaksic on behalf of the SDP of both.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89536	I'll be alone. Thank you, Vice President. [[Two, two, two.]] Dear colleagues Salapić, colleagues and fellow MPs good day, nice greeting to all, today we have a second reading of the Law on Courts and Court Headquarterss and what we talked about and, in the first reading, we can do it again today. Any normative improvement, compliance with the EU is certainly something to be welcomed and it is certain that each step is worth something and is carrying something. However, we should have such a conclusion if we are delighted with the situation in our judiciary, if we claim that all courts are doing fantastic work and that Croatian citizens, without any questions, questions and counter-proposals, believe in what they see, hear and see, as far as Croatian courts and Croatian courts are concerned. What we see from year to year that the perception of trust in our judiciary is getting lower and lower, we might even say that this trust simply exists among ordinary citizens and then of course we can comment without any shame and say that for the improvements, that for the purposes of the changes, but when we look at needs and what citizens expect, we simply expect that we should do much more, much more precisely, and in some fields and much sharper than all of this comes before us as parliamentary representatives and MPs and MPs, and that after this we will go to certain implementation because it would simply not be enough this time to now and to list all the affairs that we have in our judiciary, only everything that happened back a year ago, from that we have arrested judges because they have thrown themselves into a bankruptcy mafia until those judges in Osijek where they are not, in the end they are arrested by the Croatian state, but we have come to the right of Croatia in the right of health and the right of Croatia that we have not been able to do so much in the right in the right of the right of the right of health and of Croatia that we do so in the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the Croatian that we are the right of health that we do the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the Croatian and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the Croatian and of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the Croatian and of the Croatian. Of course, there are also a lot of judges and judges who are very honorable, very honest, very correct in their work, but because of the doll that appeared in the grain simply in the citizens at the end of the day, there is an opinion that, if it comes to someone big and important political or big and important in the world of business in one way or another, it usually ends up either in a new affair or ends up in antiquity, and we never welcome the justice that we as a state and society deserve. These are questions that we should continue to think about, which we should still look for certain answers because I will repeat that without sharper cuts and bigger changes, we cannot say that we have all done enough together to change the situation in the Croatian judiciary. The proposal for a law that is before us today, with what I have said, gives certain steps still as if it avoids the issue of the strict responsibility of judges still as if to avoid having different checks on the property cards and the proportion of the property of our judges and to punish them on that basis. Let's remember that in that famous case of the Ossetian court, we all stayed paff when we saw what that property looked like and what was covered with income. We are still running away from seeking to strengthen the education of our judges and judges, and perhaps we could be even a little more aggressive, even more proactive, and ask for these additional solutions to show that this assembly, home of parliament, we all have a desire to be this mandate of the assembly that will eventually begin to bring order to the situation in our judiciary. The additional thing I would like to stress in this debate on behalf of the SDP Club is that we absolutely welcome that we will finally deal with family laws in a more serious way. It's something that's definitely very important because it's really a specific and fragile area and, of course, it's in this field of state through the judicial system that has to show that it's ready to be there especially on the side of those smaller, weaker ones and that's something we need to welcome from that aspect and it's certain that every kind of specialization is something that should ultimately bring much better and much simpler. But what I would like to draw attention to in the debate is that if we talk about family laws that we have to admit that on one side of the crown has brought an absolutely new framework, that there has been psychosis among people and there will be a lot of work to do, that a lot of things that binds to family laws will be uploaded to the welfare center. We voted shortly on a package of these laws and the professional public had many questions and bad comments on what Minister Aladrovic suggested and what was eventually adopted. I can't judge until we see the final result, but maybe we can say right now that we have to pay attention to that, too, so that it doesn't end up being established that we've specialized in something, but we've done it on that pre-step. And the other thing that's mentioned on the day and in the replicas, and I'm glad that we've made a unanimous decision on the Justice Committee that we all want to improve that part of the law together is part of the law on the seat of the courts where on the one hand we are specialising because it will mean that our judges and judges will be much more serious in this field of law, but on the other hand, we are in favour of simply doing it in the nearest possible place. Not to put someone in a position to drive 200, 250, 300 km to make a divorce and not to list everything that enters family legislation, and therefore we definitely welcome this unanimity over the amendments and what counterpart Salapic said was clearly willing to accept it, that the county courts will have that authority to distribute the cases by municipal courts in accordance with the place of residence. So, that people from Koprivnica, Čakovec, Požega, Djakova, that I do not now list all the cities that would be covered by it can processally do anything about family legislation or where they live or very close to where they live and that is something that we definitely praise as such at this stage and thank for a very constructive discussion on this subject and this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89537	Thank you, too. Mr. Bauk won't show up... No, good. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So we're moving on, Mr. Zeljko Sacic, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89538	Thank you very much. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, so we are again able to discuss the proposal for a final proposal of the Law on Courts, amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and, on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, we can certainly conclude that these are steps in the right direction for a functional independent judiciary. For a judiciary expected by the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. The proposals for a solution that you have given us here from previous discussions give encouragement to address certain shortcomings that we have witnessed over the past years and decades. We welcome this approach to further specify these security checks by our court officials. In particular, to further define the role and tasks and actions of the president of the Republic of Croatia in the Supreme Court's election process in order not to repeat these unloved, unfavorable events that we have witnessed in the past year. In any case, we expect you to ensure, in addition to these normative procedures, after the earthquake and after this Covid crisis, all the material technical conditions for the work of our courts. In this way, to actually lead them to be able to perform their complex judicial duty as effectively as possible, which is every decision by the courts, requires extremely high concentration, expertise, education continuously in addition to that basic education and, in fact, expected by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia with great attention, especially those who are interested in making objective and judgments that have not been passed under any kind of pressure not particularly politically. It is therefore your task to provide them with these conditions, and it remains with regard to this law which we, or the proposal that we have had, read certain doubts, I don't know why a powerful annual schedule of jobs should be submitted to the Ministry of Justice, which I don't really know if that's why it should be, but that's such a question. In addition, the Minister of Justice should, thanks to his co-workers in the transitional and final provisions, put this in place to strengthen your activity and not wait 6 months to adopt the rules. These rules, thanks to the logistics you have, should be passed within a maximum period of 3 months. There is no reason to wait, it is ultimately a European acquis and the obligation that all those who are in the process of adopting normative acts do their utmost to make sure that the more up-to-date, the sooner they can consume the rights that are regulated by that rule. It will be our, our, our contribution to this initiative. And certainly at the end of this debate, I hope Mr. Secretary of State, and also the Croatian public, chairing that with the due attention of both you colleagues and colleagues, I have not unfortunately seen this in the media marked one death of a great man, a great Croatian patriot, a minister of justice, a war minister of foreign affairs, one of the most responsible for the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, this is our Professor Dr. Dr. I believe in the name of the Croatian public here, we express our deep respect for the family and our gratitude for all the good he has done and as a teacher, as a teacher of us, many of us have had the opportunity to listen to and take tests with him where he has exploited us both professionally and morally and humanly and has earned much more gratitude for this people, this country and the media and political as we see it today, but what we can say once again at this sad moment for all of us only the words of gratitude for his contribution to the tireless struggle for the freedom and rights of the Croatian people and the survival of the Croatian state. So, I expect both the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and the President himself to direct the expressions of deep compassion to the family and to thank, in fact, on behalf of the entire Croatian people for the contribution to Croatian freedom, Prof. Dr. Zvlamir Šeparović. Peace and rest grant him peace and rest, Lord. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89539	Thank you Mr. Sacic, we'll pass it on to the president, and I remind you that he was also the rector of the Croatian, Zagreb-based pardon university. Now it's Mr. Kujundzic's turn to share time with Mr. Bull whom I've seen and means you'll still share time no? If you get... For a moment there was a yes. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89540	If Miro comes, we will. Thank you, Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89541	Here you are, the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89542	Is, a respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues perhaps the biggest challenges in our Croatia are in front of this resort. We all know that the level of corruption and the rate of corruption is higher the poorer the country is. We were 10 years old at the same level with Rwanda then she bounced from us, bounced we stayed in 63 places. The key to unlocking or locking once and for all what this society is destroying is in the hands of this resistor. And I know that our minister found himself in an unguarded grape, inherited the sins of all those before and not only sins in general. What is most important inherited is the sin of failure. Now, I hope warmly, and I believe that he will jump out of that one series and that he will not water that seed of corruption with his inaction and that here we will actually breathe like Croatia with our full lungs. What is our minister's limit we have in putting together this and other proposals of the Law on Courts, the courts' seats later on the DORH, and everything else we'll see we can review at the end maybe here's a period of six months. With this proposal for a Law on Courts, the minister strengthens his position which is good and I believe that behind this strengthening of his position he is actually knowingly taking on a form of responsibility that puts on his back. I expect here that he will be brave and will deal with legislative justice politically, he could also say in media defamation, trampling and everything else that is not good and that he will do everything possible for Croatia to become a country of freedom and a country of righteousness. But let's go back to the subject of these laws. Therefore, the specialisation itself in terms of more effective family, family protection has not brought about any excessive fruit in terms of efficiency, nor the quality of solving of these types of objects. Theoretically speaking, if you really go beyond these negativitys that you will have to solve, then there could be a discharge of smaller courts and quality could be achieved, a quality level of legal protection for this category of parties, therefore, in the family spectrum that is most sensitive in society. Today, in practice in courts, we already have judges who only work this kind of case and have not made any special progress in the professional sense, nor have they raised the level of legal protection to some enviable level as far as they have progressed in a procedural way, because I think you know yourself that such objects have a special procedure, but in essence nothing has changed, and in these cases, to a large extent, we say in Dalmatia scrawny, therefore superficially and unprofessionally. An example from Split that has had judges for years who judge exclusively family rights cases, so the grandson sued Grandpa and his grandmother who, for restraints he didn't get from his father. The submission was held in 2017 and 14 hearings were held. Grandpa and Grandma object because they do not have the material conditions to receive their grandson and, by some miracle, it happened that the hearing was delayed indefinitely because here is some documentation missing, and the child is already on the verge of adulthood and surely lives on one edge of existence. The years that have passed no one can bring them back nor can what the child mentioned miss. This case is conducted by a judge who is exclusively related to such a type of case, therefore an expert in his field. And here I will not even open the subject of court practice when it comes to the lack of parental care rights and the number of children growing up in homes because of the lack of courage and lack of all relevant factors. It is likely that a certain legislative framework will come that will bring this child back and focus and it should be our starting point. All of this above leads us to conclude that neither specialisation nor all of the novelties can bring efficiency without the right legislative framework. Now is this I hope it is warm and warm I hope that the above example that they will be in no way. More items of this type have been qualityd since the non-payment of child restraint is a criminal offence. So if you don't pay your child's debts, you're going to jail. And somehow it always happens that if one such character breaks a certain condition in this area, a miracle happens that he finds the money immediately, pays what he has left to his child, which leads us to conclude that a certain amount of money before there has been a change in this area spent in a variety of places, not to say to the bureaucrats, casinos and the like. As far as the High Criminal Court is concerned, it is otherwise commendable that he is defined and imagined and we welcome it. However, despite its defined procedural powers and in spite of the fact that he will decide on complaints against decisions of the county courts in the second degree and thus effectively level their practice and clear communication by the ministry itself that there will be a discharge of the Supreme Court from the ordinary trial, it is clear that what has been announced during the last amendments has not been achieved. Therefore, it is necessary to specify his role in criminal proceedings in general and to give him the powers conferred by the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the criminal trial. What we will have in practice can be revised for a period of six months. Revise not in the context of any police surveillance but in the context of efficiency and any changes and knowledge that you yourself will come to. The draft law has been approached primarily because of something that falls within the category of larceny relations in this system, and these are the experts where there have been various examples of some hidden conflicts of interest, their work for both party and all others and we welcome, so that one normative framework that will be put into one frame and where they will actually be controlled to a greater extent. Why they're important I don't think we should particularly highlight everything, because in most cases the court's decision is solely the result of their expert opinion. Although out of this, even if we leave this aside in practice often they can delay certain hearings and they justify that they came up with something, they may have eaten something the night before, so they get diarrhoea or something like that if the word is for example that they should come to court in Imotski, so where these personal judges say that those witches are asking, don't call me again, like it's invaluable worse to come to them. And in principle, when they add up everything they get for that one hearing, the most often comes out more than a certain salary of a certain woman in a bakery. So anyway, we welcome that you're going to end up, so one of these, one of these bad conditions that we've had so far. If we add to all of this this the announced expert exam for which we will see how he will be regulated, so if he is who he normally is, then it would be best if we abolished him not only for this area, but for both education and everything else. Because the only serious thing that can be proven in this sector is certain knowledge or some type of judicial examination. Whether he's going in this direction or not, I don't know how seriously you're planning to do it now, because I'm afraid that practice doesn't appear the way we've had it. So here's the already sung Joseph the Roman. I think we should avoid it very, very clearly here. And for the very end, so in the context of the election of the President of the Supreme Court, I would suggest to you, therefore, not as HDZ, but as a general rule, that one item should be inserted into the law if possible, that the President of the State and the Prime Minister should be of the same party. So if one wins, one joins another, I don't want to see this joke we saw when we appointed the last Supreme Court president. And as for the very opinion of the Constitutional Court, I don't think there's any need to speak because it's about top experts who have absolutely nothing to do with politics. All in all, the intent of this law and intensity is clear to us. And we at the MOST Club will support, give the green light to these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89543	Mrs. Vesna Nadj will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89544	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us these four final drafts of the law in the area of justice that we are represented as a reform law, and in fact they are just throwing sand into our eyes, an effort to maintain the status quo and show that it is done as something but are actually a reflection of the inability of this government to really tackle the challenges of the catastrophic situation in the area of justice. It cannot be understood that a government that ignores opposition appeals from this pay phone for the actual reform of the judiciary that we point to mistrust in the judiciary of both citizens and entrepreneurs is the huge problem of Croatian society today and the weight that Croatian society places in uncompetitive states that investors bypass in a large port. Due to mistrust in institutions, corruption in almost all segments of public government, administrative slowness and ineffectiveness of slow, incompetent and inefficient judiciary, while the absence of human reform lives badly and leaves our country. And while the population list is making us less and less, so 3 million 888 529 daily we witness the eviction of the working-age population primarily of young people, often highly educated experts, not only for economic reasons but for the way in which the ruling party distributes state resources with coalition partners and only favours those who are with the authority that the people would say "those in digging". If you have a HDZ card all your doors are open, the contests are tailored to you, and legal and sublegal norms when it comes to you are interpreted for your benefit, the ethical codes are written for those others because your honesty must not be doubted. The daily affairs prove this to us, and the last affairs of state property management discovered by the whistle-sniffer Maja Djerek, who, according to the old HDZ recipe, was fired as well as our most famous whistle-sniffer, the late Ankica Lepej. And while in every democratically arranged state such officials would be poured with ash, well-red, they would get three dermatitiss out of shame, resign and disappear unscathed from political and any public scene in our country, yet they still boast of the inexplicable justifications of their actions. Such a society has no prosperity. The launch of a strict and criminal procedure with us because of corruption and nepotism among judges is not initiated by the presidents of the courts but by the fugitives from the Croatian judiciary from BiH. We often witness the arrests of judges as judicial officials, as well as officials of the executive authority who could not resist the smell of budget money to put it in their private pockets or to benefit from some benefits that their position allows them. To stop emigration from Croatia and return people to Croatia, it is not enough to offer them 200,000 kuna which is not enough even to open some honest business that will survive. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, as so-called The Supreme Court should probably testify to such changes and complements by the fact that we have recently witnessed several hours of interpretation of the view of judicial reform at the time of the candidate for president, and now President of the Supreme Court Radovan Dobronic. However, instead of the Minister of Justice and Administration taking advantage of his deep knowledge of the judiciary and ideas that go to speed up the quality of the judgments, you have sent to the Croatian Parliament the draft law for which the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in its statement of 29 November 2021, quotes: "The proposal is contrary to Articles 115 and 118. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which defines the judicial authority as independent and independent, has been personally entrusted to judges, which means that the judiciary authorities act as judges acting independently and independently, closed quotes within the framework of independent and independent judicial authorities. The Supreme Court states that the security clearance of all judges found on the day of entry into force of this law as appointed judges would in fact be a disguised lustration that threatens the independence of judges. It is said that no EU countries have a similar system and that the impact of security services that part of the executive authority has on the assessment of the behaviour of the judiciary and their career is contrary to the principle of power-sharing. The Social Democrats Club also considers that these provisions are contrary to the principle of division of power and that a tight system of responsibility should be strengthened within the framework of the justice system itself through the monitoring of the work of judges by the President of the Court and the launch of strict procedures in the event that the conditions are obtained through the DSV. A large role should also be played by the Tax Administration, which has insight into the possible disproportionateities of the assets of judges and their incomes, if for example. The judge bought some Mercedes type of AMG over EUR 10,000 or a yacht to knock on his door and ask sir judge where you get the money. When we talk about the situation in the judiciary, we have the highest number of people and entrepreneurs who are in pain is a lack of confidence in the judiciary because of the unwarranted length of judicial proceedings that we are paying tens of thousands of euros of fines after the European Court of Human Rights has ruled on which Stefica.../incomprehensible/... a representative of the Republic of Croatia at the European Court of Human Rights can testify. But the catch is that the judiciary is for some mother, for other wicked stepmothers because if you don't have someone so-called. The bear who pushes things will process for years if not decades. And that is the root of mistrust in institutions both judicial and executive authorities whose decisions are not equal for all citizens, whether it is Mrs. Barica who sells on Dolca or a government official. In its report on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of 23 February 2021, the Constitutional Court states, inter alia, that the existing remedies for the protection of the right to trial are within a reasonable period of time effective to remedy those situations in which the infringement has already occurred, and that the judge who is ordered to make the decision within a certain time limit shall fail to do so. However, they are not effective in preventing upcoming infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period or in those situations where injury has already occurred, and the judge makes a decision within the time limit referred to in that case because there is no remedy available for the infringement already established. The Constitutional Court states that the conduct of the Constitutional Court in individual cases cannot compensate for the need for legislative intervention but this necessary legislative intervention has not occurred. When we talk about the quality of court decisions, this proposal will not contribute to the quality of the Law on Courts, except with regard to the establishment of specialised family departments in municipal courts at the headquarters of county courts and New Zagreb. However, it is not clear how judges will be determined to work on these cases that they have a distinct tendency to raise, need and break children. The Social Democrats Club believes that when drawing up the final draft of the law, the comments and proposals of professional associations of witches were to be included in order to detect all existing problems and to develop as high-quality legislation as possible, covering the equally valorised interests of all court proceedings, all participants in judicial proceedings. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, we welcome the establishment of specialised family courts in municipal courts in the county seats as well as in New Zagreb. Therefore, neither in this Final Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, nor amendments and additions to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, except in the section relating to family courts, will contribute to improving the quality and speed of decision-making. This law will not contribute enough to prevent corruption in the system. There is no regulation on the publication of court decisions, which are envisaged as a development of the tools for public publication in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which would indeed be aimed at creating what is referred to by the modern judiciary ready for future challenges, but there is no such measure as is mentioned in this national plan. That's why we won't be able to reach a modern unsuspecting judiciary for much longer, which will make legal and quality judicial decisions that will not fall to higher courts and justice in which judges will be continuously, not just periodically educated. The Social Democrats Club will therefore not support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89545	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will perform in front of the Fair Croatian Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89546	The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, so Article 2(4) of the Constitution is the first constitution that the legislator's power is to decide to regulate economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. In regulating these relations, the legislator is obliged to respect the requirements set before him by the Constitution, and in particular those arising from the rule of law principle and those safeguarding certain constitutional goods and values. That constitutional authority enables the legislator to amend and supplement the existing legal arrangements of these relations and related rights and obligations, or to edit them in different ways, depending on different circumstances. In principle, in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 2(2) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, The Croatian Parliament or people shall decide directly, independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the law on the regulation of economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. This means that the Assembly decides on a model for regulating certain relationships and that the quality of the model on the legal side is irrelevant. However, he must not disagree with the Constitution. So, even bad law can exist in society until it's contrary to the Constitution. The Government shall, as a proposal, be governed by the Law on Courts by the establishment, exercise of jurisdiction of the courts if it is not determined by other law, the internal organisation of courts, the affairs of the judicial administration, the powers of the President of the Court, the affairs of the director of the judicial administration, the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period, the supervision of the affairs of the judicial administration, judicial inspection, the rights and duties of judges, the powers of judicial advisers, the insurance of persons, the property and objects of the courts, the appointment of judges of judges, the conditions and procedure of appointment of permanent court interpreters, the assessors, and the means for the work of the courts. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Courts has been approached primarily for the purpose of revising the normative framework of permanent court experts, assessors and interpreters, revising the normative framework relating to the provision of judicial authorities, revising provisions on directors of the judicial administration of a special regulation that, in the event of the suspension of the duties of the President of the Supreme Court, the State Judicial Council will authorise the judge of that court, who, until the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, will carry out the tasks of the judicial administration, the imposition of the obligation of a special examination for officials in the courts, the precision of the powers of the High Criminal Court, the provision of mandatory establishment of specialised judicial departments in municipal courts in the offices of mayoral courts to conduct in matters governed by family relations. Nextly, the selection procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the regulation of the implementation of periodic background security checks on all judges, and the revision of the conditions for the conduct of judicial inspection operations. Furthermore, the Government clarifies in accordance with the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its resolution of 23 March 2021 the provisions on the procedure for electing the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the deadlines for proceedings, the applications received, and the repetition of the public call procedure. It is proposed to prescribe that only timely and complete applications are submitted by the State Judicial Council to the President of the Republic of Croatia, who will request the opinions of the competent authorities for all candidates. It is proposed that if the President of the Republic of Croatia does not propose to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia within 15 days of the date of receipt of the last adopted opinion of the competent authorities, neither of the candidates will propose to be the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, or if the proposed candidate is not elected at the Croatian Assembly of the State Judicial Council, of course, to cancel the public call and to restart the selection procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia within 8 days at the latest by the publication of a new public call. Article 116(1) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest court shall ensure the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application. According to the Law on Courts, and the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia represents the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Court of Justice, performs the tasks of the judicial administration and other affairs such as the administration of the Supreme Court, the coordination of the work of the judicial departments and other bodies in the Supreme Court, the convocation and the chairmanship of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the extended general session, and the management of the judicial administration. The President, therefore, is responsible for the proper and legal conduct of affairs in court and judicial administration. The President shall also adopt administrative and other acts, issue orders and give instructions, sign decisions, conclusions, reports and other acts adopted by the General Meeting, oversee the work of the Directors of the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and financial and material activities. It follows that the role of the President of the Supreme Court is primarily representative of the administrative role. It does not have a special and direct impact on the trial procedure or on the content of the Supreme Court's action and the enforcement of its Constitution under the prescribed jurisdiction, therefore it can reasonably be asked why the choice of this function has been raised to the level of the Constitutional Institute, i.e. why its regulation is carried out in the highest legal act of the Republic of Croatia, mainly bearing in mind, for example, the analogue institution's solution contained in Article 15. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia under which the Constitutional Court elects a secret vote by the President of the Constitutional Court at the time of 4 years by the majority of the votes of all judges. In the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia, only courts may apply the Constitution directly to specific cases because they may apply the Constitution on the basis of the provisions contained in Article 115(3) of the Constitution, law and other sources of law. The constitution of their solutions through the constitutional lawsuits is subsequently controlled by the Constitutional Court. Such authority does not belong to the President of the Republic of Croatia for the reason that formal legal training and real knowledge of rights, unlike the time of Croatian banks, is no longer a condition for the exercise of the most executive state authority. According to our Constitution, which is constantly trying to turn from the political game into a means of political struggle and power conquest, we have a completely inadequate constitutional arrangement of the Institute of Elections of the Supreme Court President. By law as an act of lower legal force, the Constitution cannot be amended. The following is already explained, and given the existing constitutional solution, the legal framework for the election of the Supreme Court president contained in the Court Act is constitutionally unacceptable independently of the Constitutional Court's resolution of 23 March 2021. However, the Constitutional Court as a constitutional body that plays a role so - called the So - called Constitutional Court. a negative legislator, through the prism of power to abolish the law or its specific provisions, is a political court which must not be converted into a political court in its office. The Constitutional Court can do much, but it cannot compromise the country's territorial integrity, its financial security or prevent the functioning of the democratic system. It was therefore expected, with a large number of opinions, that this court pragmatically concluded that the relevant provisions of the Law on Courts did not conflict with the Constitution. The Lege artis solution of this situation is to delete the special institute of election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia from the Constitution. The legislator should be left free from the organisation of the Institute of Presidents of the Supreme Court in accordance with the real importance of that function. The best solution would be to determine according to which the Supreme Court president is elected by the Supreme Court judges at the general session of the court. Courts which can only be executed by the judicial authority if they are independent of work, do not need... outside the justice system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again, instead of resolving this issue with the constitution, a lower legal force act is being regulated for now and unfortunately by the constitutional and legal institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89547	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Spajic will present the views of the National Movement Representatives' Club on these laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89548	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State sends a special greeting to Minister Malenica in France. I only hope he didn't go there by the investors to solve IT experts in his sector, because one Vinko Kujundzic and Beros could not survive. We need to look again at the renewal of the court's security checks that suggest this to these amendments to the Courts Act. I will try not to repeat what I already said in the debate at first reading, for it is obvious that the promoter did not hear anything from it. However, it is of particular importance that our citizens know that the existing Institute of Security Checks refers to candidates for judges and not to the already appointed judges, which is not questionable from the constitutional and legal aspect. These amendments suggest that security checks are carried out over all judges every five years, which is a practice of constitutional and legal aspect of doubt, and from the point of view of purpose, when we consider that in the Republic of Croatia the number of judges can be compared with the total number of people of one municipality of Baška, the municipality of Bol or Skabrnja has over 1600 judges, we can only conclude the quantity at the expense of quality. The existing model is the possibility, and the proposed model of desire is not the desire to improve the situation in the Croatian judiciary but the desire of HDZ politics to have an even stronger impact on the independence of the judicial authority. The birds on the border already know what is the main reason for not trusting in the judiciary, and that is what the European Commission concluded when it examined what the public's perception of the independence of the Croatian judiciary is so defeating that it placed us at the very bottom of the EU's scale. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens are the main reason precisely the influence of the government and politicians on them. The perception of the Homeland Movement also does not deviate from that attitude. The Croatian judiciary is in poor condition, as I personally call it, a frog's shortcut, an honor for exceptions. But we don't close our eyes to the fact that it's a bad situation and everything else. It's just enough to look at how the government, how our young people are leaving, is catastrophic, we have to improve it. But sustainable solutions without waste of resources and without interventions that destroy fundamental constitutional settings. The proposer in the draft law states that the implementation is periodically based on the security of the verification of all judges inextricably linked to the assumptions for the orderly conduct of the judicial duty. The minister made the same statement in the opening statement at the first reading. Inseparably something that cannot be divided, something that is unique and complete. I must admit that taking into account the meaning of the orderly conduct of judicial duty under the relevant laws, the Law on Courts, the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Code of Justice could not be found a foothold for this inseparable relationship other than the inseparability of the HDZ with corruption and cheap demagogy. But still, something else came along. On the website of the Venice Commission, it was announced that Minister Malenica asked the Commission on 14 December for an opinion on this proposal that was put before us today. A proposal proposing that secret services that operate within the executive authority enter into the family and private lives of judicial officials without any doubt indicating the abuse of their duties. Although the Venice Commission publicly publishes its opinions on this law, I ask the Minister to inform this Parliament and Croatian citizens about the response of the Venice Commission. Whether this famous proposal has received green light from the Council of Europe advisory body, whether such a proposal is in line with the European acquis, whether judges in a Member State of the EU are subject to such checks. Will such checks be counterproductive to executive and legislative authorities or will the relationship of the confidence of the prime minister, minister and secretary of state continue to apply as we do now? Have you wondered if this proposal will get a green light from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia? The Constitutional Court’s decision of the Constitutional Court of 2018 when the Constitutional Court assessed the constitutionality of the legal provisions on the security clearance of the candidate for judges shows that the Constitutional Court has taken a position which does not support this government’s proposal. But to do something wrong, I will quote a part of Judge Miroslav Šumanović's separate supportive opinion just because he has made it very clear that the application of the Institute of Security Verification for Candidates is inadmissible if they are already appointed judges. So, he says, such mechanisms can undoubtedly act as a threat to the independence of the judiciary, which is vulnerable precisely in segments of contact with the Executive Authority's actions and dominant political factors. Also, the current President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Miroslav Šeparovic and Judge Rajko Mlinaric, had the need to give their separate supportive opinion in order to indicate that security checks refer exclusively to candidates who are not judicial officials. Because of this, it is simply not possible to take away the impression that the applicant is committing one sentence to such an important legislative intervention. The existing candidate model and the proposed model of judicial officials are incomparable, therefore the question arises whether the proposed renewal provision is applicable at all, as the first security check was not carried out on the judicial officer but on the candidate before entering the judicial duty. This judicial duty was to us or not to enjoy certain rights and duties under the letter of the Constitution itself, so that, taking into account the principle of constitutionality of the judicial duty and the limitations of the basis for the resolution of the prescribed Constitution, the existence of a security obstacle does not allow for self-sanction either through strict responsibility or through resolutions. Secret Service cannot be in charge of orderly conduct of judicial duty. What is revealed under the judicial judiciary also cannot be used by secret services in criminal proceedings, but it is up to the police and the State's Attorney's office to do so. Such information can only serve the illegal pressures of the executive authority on other judges than HDZ. It also amazes the number of people who will be involved in the process, and thus is familiar with the private and family lives of all judges. It appears that the motioner has mixed the constitutional roles of the State Judiciary Council and the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall ensure uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application. According to a report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2020, The Supreme Court had 38 judges and 12723 pending cases. The year-to-year manages to solve about 9 and a half thousand, which means that every judge has nearly 350 cases pending at all times. Let them do their job, deal with the subjects of the citizens, judge. It is unacceptable to deal with the existence of security obstacles through a quasi Council which is completely deviating from the basic role of the Council of the Court, which is the conduct of a judicial duty. Speaking of the State of Justice report, I would like to point out how embarrassing it is that ten months ago, the Croatian Parliament asked the Government's proposal for an indication of the report in question for 2020 and the government of respected citizens was manifested about it six days ago, 27.1.2022. So we're in the year 2022 where we need to know the state of the judicial authority in 2021 and we don't even know about 2020 yet. Congratulations! We reiterate our opposition to this proposal, and we believe that security checks would make sense if they were carried out in concrete cases where there are doubts about the existence of a security threat. Finally, they can only point out that the proposals and remarks on witches, interpreters, directors, inspectors given in the previous debate were also not taken into account, and the question is whether this debate makes any sense at all. The minister would be better off reducing the number of people on the fifth floor, he knows where, because what you're doing isn't reform. There is no good amendment to bad law. I always say that responsibly, and I wonder if you will praise this law if it falls to the assessment of constitutionality. Is the minister going to praise him, then, that's what I'm interested in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89549	Thank you, too. What you call secret services, or security services, is better said we hope we don't have any secret services. Either they check or they don't check, because I can't check in one case, not check in the other. That's right. Here you go. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89550	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here are two important laws, a discussion of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. These are actually very important laws, because the Law on Courts defines that basic framework relating to the regulation of the judiciary, the kind of courts, the formation of courts, the jurisdiction of the judicial administration, and that is indeed what is fundamental to which justice begins. I would say that these two laws actually offer a whole series of changes that each in their segment strengthens the normative framework, strengthens normative arrangements and actually gives better solutions to the situation as it is today in those segments. Some will say that it's not enough, some will say that it should be more ambitious, more actually, but we here have been in two readings and each of us here Parliamentarians and each of the clubs have the right and the ability to submit a number of amendments, a smaller number of amendments. By the end of this debate, these amendments can and can be submitted, so we'll actually see what these laws will ultimately look like. What seems to me to be the most significant change, and we're actually in the first reading and we're all apostrophe, which is actually the introduction of fifteen municipal courts to the establishment of these specialized family departments. Because we know that family law is extremely complex. It is incurring indeed those very vulnerable segments of society and it is good that the government has decided to mean fifteen courts are made up of these specialized departments for family matters. And it's a good thing it's not just about judges, it's about other experts working in that segment. And today we had on the Justice Committee, this is what actually took place in the public debate between the first and second readings, where I think with one amendment we kind of reconciled that there is an important profession that will be present in these 15 courts, 16 actually with the court in New Zagreb. But it is important again to make justice available to our citizen, so through this amendment we have said that the presidents of the county courts will provide conditions in those other courts, so those other 15, 16 courts to be conducted there and procedural actions related to these family cases. This is exactly what some colleagues in replicas said, that someone from Gospić would not have to travel to Karlovac, that someone from Koprivnica would not have to go to Varazdin. And that's what I think is a good measure that we suggested on the board. One of such important provisions is also related to detailing the provisions in the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We all know we've been through a rough time. The Constitutional Court has taken a position and has made a decision that these decisions on the election of the President of the Supreme Court are in accordance with the Constitution but it has made certain remarks and the legislator is now installing it in this law, setting deadlines, laying down a little more precise procedure, so that the State Judicial Council should see whether these applications are complete, are clear. And those that are complete and in accordance with the law delivers them to the president. The President then shall deliver the deadline within which it shall deliver the General Session of the Supreme, the session of Parliament and the time limit in which it is to be delivered here. It is also an important provision because there has been a lot of doubts as to what will happen if the President of the Supreme Court is not appointed. Now that's very clear. If it is not appointed in time, then the State Judiciary Council of the Supreme Court will determine who will be the performer of the duties. Also, one of the changes is the High Criminal Court, his responsibilities are indicated. Although we already have in the Code of Criminal Procedure all these powers specified so that even under this Code of Criminal Procedure, the High Criminal Court works, but this is a fundamental law in which it should also stand. Here's too short a time to assess the action of the High Criminal Court at all, but all that's going on at the High Criminal Court so far, I think it's in favor that he, that its establishment, has certainly made sense because it's a court that, therefore, solves not only complaints against the decisions of the county courts that they make in the first degree, criminal proceedings, but even all of them, means procedural decisions which needlessly burdened the Supreme Court. It's also an important provision for the director of the courts that we welcome. The directors of the courts they will be so important in the management of the courts in all those technical details and I do not know the distribution of the courtrooms and related to public procurement and all that and will help the President of the Court and here is the precise and professional preparation that they must have. We see that the ministry has authorized it to appoint the witches. So far, it's been a way for the courts themselves to name it, but now that it's an administrative procedure and to ask for it to be unified. It's good to have one practice, not to be wandering around, and it's good to have the ministry do it so there's no different practice. It is also a good provision, because in practice it has been known to be unclear who it is, who is an art subject, whether it is some legal person who was founded to provide skills services or is an individual. Here it is said that it is an individual, he always does the find and that doubt is now related to these special expert exams for those segments that officials are doing. So in addition to those general provisions relating to the expert exam, they will also have a special expert exam about what they will do. I think it's raising levels of expertise within the ministry and it's also a good step where it insists on the expertise of staff working in ministries and courts. Also related to those officers or to say such judicial officers who work to secure judicial facilities here are actually foreseen the same and further their education, but also certain rights that have judicial officers who actually work in the prison system. There's no big, huge difference and there's no difference between them and there's no reason for them to be in material rights either in a better position than each other, so this is also a good provision. It's very dangerous because these people also have the possibility of handling firearms that a special measure is being introduced here as well as for the judicial authorities that they can't, that they can't, that they wouldn't accidentally have alcohol in their blood, because the work they're doing is pretty dangerous. Also, with regard to some further measures, what is announced is actually related to the subsequent amendments to the Law on Prosecution. I think it should be insisted that we as a society have the right to say no imperative deadlines and objects are diverse. Somewhere you need to carry out one piece of evidence, somewhere else that at least indicative people know when they're handing some kind of request to court as to how long it takes. And I think that even now this legal framework that we have allows courts to work fast, to work spotlessly and prove it many in their fields where many judges work individually and that we need more in the future of good practice that will be achieved by education, we need more digitisation, modernisation, everything that is in some way already in motion. We see that there are no more papers in the courts, that electronic communication solves delivery and delivery more or less, and the question means communication within the parties. We see that in Croatia we can start a company from our chair in the house, we no longer have to carry various documents. We also see that in many and land-booking procedures many things can be regulated in exactly this digital way. So this is the future of the judiciary and what remains of us would still have to be detected as a society, which is why millions and 200,000 cases are produced annually in Croatia. It all started somewhere else, it was delivered to the judiciary and we always have one position where we have to defend the judiciary, it's bad, it's slow, and we've never really asked ourselves as a society where it comes from, why it comes about and how it works to make it happen as little as possible in the future. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this final proposal of the two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89551	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Katarina Nemet will state the views of the Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89552	The Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues are before us today a package of judicial laws. Preparing for the debate by reading the same ones can show that the legislator is seeking to improve the system. And of course any changes to the better are good, and the same should be welcomed. But I am free to say that these laws do not essentially bring us a significant improvement in the system. And that's exactly why I can't take the impression, although this is, let's say, correctly all that together is very little. Why is it so small? Because we are literally repairing all these laws on the ruins, and we ourselves are aware that there is nothing or that there is less to be said. We urgently need judicial reform, not some superficial make-up specific reform essential that this poor system will change from the ground up. We need to improve the judiciary and its fundamental functions, which is the legal and fair resolution of court disputes. Well, enough to say that the judiciary in Croatia has been called early society cancer for years. It's a devastating fact as well as the fact that we have a slow and inefficient judiciary, that we have a bunch of unsolved cases among which some literally long years wait for a final verdict until some bad and questionable decisions are even to be spoken of. Citizens have long lost confidence in the justice system. Of all EU citizens, Croatian citizens have the worst view of their judiciary independence. As the main reason for the poor perception of the judiciary in Croatia, citizens put first the interference or pressure of the government or politicians. The second place is pressure from economic or other interests, and the third is that the status and position of judges do not guarantee their independence enough. Citizens don't trust institutions. And once something like that happens, it's just hard to come back. Different almost daily affairs and corrupt octopuses, inefficient administration leads to citizens moving us out because they no longer want to live in this unfair society where ordinary people get out the thick end, and similar people live happily ever after. That is why we urgently need a reaction, something urgent needs to be done to restore people's trust in the system, trust in the institutions. The worst thing we need is something that's normal in orderly states, which means, because otherwise it can't be, it can't be imagined otherwise. Today, we should discuss what really bothers our citizens, what they expect, which is faster and more effective in the conduct of judicial proceedings, more transparent and fairer judicial system. That's what people in our country are interested in, that's what people need to be provided for, not some almost technical change that they may not feel very much. I still think it would be rude to say that this package of laws didn't want to fix anything, and that it would be rude to say that all of this together doesn't even seem correct. But it would also be dishonest to say that this package made something important, something significant for the better. There are also in principle good solutions in these laws. It sounds good to set up special specialised judicial departments in certain municipal courts. This is particularly important in order to provide more quality and effective legal protection in family relations. It also sounds good that they will work in these departments specialized judges trained in such procedures as well as specially educated officials. Why do I say it sounds good? Because we don't know what it's going to look like in practice, in the system that we currently have. Is this system going to make it look like it's written? We don't know that either, because the first question that can be asked is the availability of these departments, given that these departments will be located in the county courts' headquarters, remains to see if they will really be available to those who need to deal with family relations. What surprises us in the IDS is the revision of Article 4. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which after 2014, means after a full eight years, specialised courts by departments are abolished and now each County Court will decide on complaints. We think it's not a good decision because it brings us back for many years. The secretary of state says it's decided because of the situation on the ground. All right, if that's why it hasn't reacted before, it's been waiting eight years. We really don't get it. In the end, I have to say that there are things in this package that we can say that trying to make some changes happen for the better, but we don't really think anything important is going to happen. The conclusion of these final drafts of the law could be "the rocking hills were born of a mouse". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89553	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Katarina Peovic will represent the positions of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89554	Good afternoon. What needs to be changed hasn't changed, and what's changed is something we can say hello to, but we'll start with what's not right. There are no MPs and advocates or one who criticises the judiciary, who doesn't think it should form a more functional and faster system, therefore. However, this proposal does not change anything about the length of disputes. We have meanings made possible by the law that exists means a period of more than six months that should be limited to a period of no more than a year. But we in the Workers' Front have noticed an anomaly, which is that the Civil Court has begun to make decisions within a long time, so I will give State Secretary Salapic if he is interested in even giving an anonymous document on which you will see that the Civil Court in Zagreb has set a deadline of 24 months. And it's not the only case. So for 24 months, the judge has a discretionary right to set a longer deadline, and if he sets a longer deadline, he doesn't have to define why. And that longer term can be that up to indefinitely. So here's a document where the judge has set a 24-month deadline. There's an exception here to make a rule. So it should have changed it couldn't have been extended in a way that he didn't have a complaint and that the judge didn't have to give him an explanation for that longer term. So if it is written in the law, it means approximately, if it allows for a longer period of time, it is possible in exceptional cases, and then the judge would have to determine and define what are the exceptional cases, or to provide an explanation of why he has given that longer period of time, not that the rule is done, and that there is no appeal to his, his decision, or that the judge actually has an obligation to explain that longer term. So it was supposed to be changed. 66th century of that law. After the first sentence, the sentence should be added "the longest time limit for which it can be determined cannot be longer than a year" and then added at the end of that article that there is an appeal, meaning that the solution can be complained. That would be an art. 10th in these changes and additions you suggested here. That's not gonna happen. Here, I'll hand you that document if you're interested. I'm just wondering if you have any comments on that. He says it's not a separate case or an isolated case, everyone who's been to courts how long it's been and that's not, it's not an isolated case. The other thing, so everyone here speaks and the legislator and the public agree that it is necessary to strengthen the meaning of some justice in this field of family law, and then you bring amendments and additions to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts where it means what counterpart Nemet has already warned that those county courts responsible for second-degree proceedings are meant to be related to the appeal, which have been specialised in certain areas of the right to rule or to allow all county courts to pass those judgments, in particular it is sensitive in family law where it would be good to have some specialisation and these legislative proposals still go in this direction to some declarative specialisation in that field, but here it means that we do not see, although it is quite the opposite process. So it is completely unclear why it is now going to amend the law which specializes in certain courts for certain areas in the secondary procedure, so let's say for deciding on complaints against decisions by all municipal courts in family relations disputes were the County Court in Pula, Split and Zagreb, and now all county courts will be in charge. So that's what we think. 4th of the original law, these amendments. 2. wrong and that it should be deleted because here all means lawyers in family law tell you that it is actually a risk due to the quantity of quality. So that's not good, even though we need to be quick, we need to be precise. Well, as far as other matters are concerned, it seems to me that there is a certain centralization, which we see means from law to law. We recently had meaning the Law on Social Care, and I will also warn you of the Law on the University of Defence of Franjo Tudjman where we actually have a situation in which the Minister and the Ministry are given discretionary rights, he is an expert or she for everything and she has or she has jurisdiction over everything. Thus, here too, it means to come and propose the authority to appoint permanent court experts and permanent court interpreters to entrust the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. There are other situations where there is therefore a change, where it is centralized towards the ministry. The change, for example, for Justice Department officials, there are also some changes that will be, but mostly means there are a lot of these situations in which centralised occurs. Then we have the abolition of the 4-year appointment period, while for this there are prescribed conditions for judges I am not sure that this is good, that these statuses are no longer particularly recognised to legal persons because all of these transactions are performed individually. I also think it makes sense. Then a change for the department's officers in charge of the work of the judiciary carrying weapons, so they should not be allowed to have any alcohol in their blood. That's something we can say hello to. Then we have a matter of officers who allow some work rights. We certainly welcome that, so severance and so forth. However, in all these situations, we see certain tendencies that, especially for officials and subsistence officers, it is proposed to introduce additional meanings to impose, as we say or say here, the obligation to conduct a special examination is proposed for officials in courts, the introduction of the verification of the specific knowledge and skills needed to successfully carry out jobs in judicial bodies, meaning the knowledge of the organisation of justice, internal establishment, business, judicial fees systems, work on information systems, dactylographic even skills, etc. Of course, we can welcome it, but there's a question as well as with those social workers. If you remember in the previous Social Care Act education is of course good and we need to encourage it, but the question is whether we invest in those professional workers, experts who carry out that education. So let's say, at the Social Care Act, we saw the absolute execution of the ruling ones about it, because actually the existing institutions have disproved, and they're setting up new institutions of the Academy of Great Name that are now going to educate social workers, not only is it about who these people are now new, who are from nothing to educate these people, who are the means that are going to be allocated now for the new institution, why colleges themselves aren't enough for that, and here we have the same situation again. It means more education, but who's going to do it, if we've given more importance to that scientific system that needs to be trained, so we don't see it here. It also means that here, in this sense, special provisions in the Courts Act prescribe the obligation of court officials to pass this special examination, but particularly on the basis of the consent of the State Service if this, termination, pardon, state service does not take place within the prescribed time limit. So in some ways it's suggested that there's going to be a cancellation if they don't pass those exams within a certain time limit. So the additional power is put in the hands of the ministry to determine who can be employed who doesn't, it goes in accordance with the current trends, and the new Labour Act that goes to the flexibility of permanent or standard jobs that means to anyone who is constantly employed does not relax and the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary is given special authority to prescribe the content and method of laying down this special expert exam. So, where does the minister come from, I think he's in charge of this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89555	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic, Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89556	... It is really not clear to us in the Green-Left bloc Club why this important area that we are constantly talking about, which we are constantly having problems with, where we are indeed in this area at the bottom of the EU at the citizens' trust in the entire judicial system. [[Last-on speaker]] Why would we do this system that we all know we need to transform it into why we would do it in this way pointlessly without a strategy, without a goal, without a plan where we wanted to come. So first I want to open this whole speech by, let's try to agree on how some reform is done or some transformation of the system. So I believe that all of you here agree that reform projects and processes should have some kind of clear idea and conceptual basis of what our goal is, what we want to fast, as long as we want to come and some measurable indicators to measure whether we have done it or not. So, for this approach to amending these laws, we have a situation where we are now changing the dots of certain provisions, and that the whole plan is the national justice system development plan of 2021-2027. It's not adopted, it's in public consultation. And here I would really like to get an answer here, which was the logic of going to change by bearing the laws of the judicial system, which govern the judicial system before the national plan was adopted. Here, that's not clear to me, and that's a plan that's defined by the time of 2021-2027, so we should've already had it. Okay, we're late, but whatever it is, he's gonna be adopted very quickly because he's in public consultation right now. Why did the advance have to go with the amendments to these laws? Here's what I really don't understand. We brought the public out today and talked about how we see the transformation of the justice system in the next period and what we see as the 4 pillars of the reform. The first pillar is one which none of your changes are touched by, and unfortunately there is neither in the proposal for a national plan, which is the issue of resolving the problem of judicial detention to the public or to the public, but also according to the profession, and we think that the first pillar is the opening of justice to the public, to the profession, and also to the general public. Others say it's a territorial reconstruction of a judicial administration he doesn't dare speak of here. The fourth, change in the way judges are elected and promoted, education and a thorough reorganisation of DSV, also zero points in the proposed changes. And finally, of course, what is particularly important, and that is to improve the efficiency and uniformity of the trial and the case law. So let's start from the first of the opening of the judiciary to the public and the profession. What is it that would open that judiciary to the public and what is it that would increase the public's trust in the judiciary then. We've made some concrete suggestions here, what could be done. First of all, we believe that it is absolutely necessary at all levels, so from the municipal courts to further suspend the publication of the case law. So, after all the money we got from pre-accession funds and structural funds to improve the judiciary, especially for different software for publishing court practice we still today, we still today are here after 20. we do not have a systematic publication of the case law. It is reportedly a problem that the anomisation of court decisions requires a great deal of effort or requires a lot of work to review each of these decisions. First, except that the process can be automated, what can also be said by other countries, which is that where trials are public, where there is no exclusion of the public, there is no need to eliminate judgments. So, first of all, it's amazing to be 20. We can't, we can't do it. Where we have this at the level of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, where you have the software to publish, etc., when you go to look at the verdicts some are published really immediately, and for some of those 2-3.g. I need you to get published on the portal. Then what we are proposing is also the return of trial in three-member councils in regular court proceedings and compulsory collegiate trial in all proceedings before senior courts. We also believe that it would contribute to the opening of courts and the regular quarterly maintenance of open days of courts, as well as the weekly maintenance of office days in which more judicial referendums and services have been opened to the general public for enquiries and legal assistance. You today as a citizen can actually very hard to get information from the court or come to court for some information. The courts are literally closed except for those who are parties to the proceedings and on that very day, and at that time only can they come to court. I'll remind myself that sometimes and somewhere in the mid-1990s, it was possible for an ignorant party so-called the one with no legal knowledge and no lawyers, to get legal aid, free legal aid in court, advice and information. You can't get basic information in that court today, not to say you can't even get into it. So, further, we also think that we need very serious changes in the system of naming judges and opening courts not only to career judges, so those who are in the system all the time, but to be able to determine the quota, for example of 1/5 judges in all elections to choose from so-called. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union, as well as the competent authorities of the Member States of the other Member States, of the other Member States and of the Commission, of the other parts of the Union, of the other parts of the Union, of the other parts of the Union and of the Commission. In this way, we would actually bring the breath of some new wind into the judicial system and people who have experience dealing right with another, some other position. We also find it absolutely important to ensure the public session and the transfer of sessions and debates of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court as well. We no longer have a public session of the Constitutional Court, nor do we have a Supreme Court. I'm also going to say something about the transfer and the public of the strict procedures being carried out in the DSV. So, as far as this second pillar is concerned, which is the question of the territorial reshuffle of the judicial administration, I will only repeat that today in Croatia we have more than 30 municipal courts, 4 administrative courts plus high administrative courts, 9 commercial courts, 15 county courts, and 3 specialised high court, so criminal, administrative and now high criminal. Thus, this large number of courts and their territorial fragmentation and organisational decoupling do not contribute at all to what they allegedly exist, which is access to court. Access to court is not a matter of location, access to court is a matter of the law and openness of the institutions to help citizens, and we see that it is 5km or 10km from some physical one, so completely wrong. According to us, the optimal organisation of a network of first-degree courts in Croatia should have a maximum of 12 courts up to, from 12 to a maximum of 16 where the current number of places with judicial offices and services can be greater and flexible to change according to needs, but as exposures. So not every fifth municipality has to have a municipal court, it really doesn't. As regards the county level or secondary level, we believe that a maximum of 4 courts in the centres of legal excellence would be sufficient, but in the same way they may have re-exposures in other areas. But then if you have 4 centres of legal excellence Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek we will also have second-degree, second-degree bodies there. Also, with regard to the election of judges, it is crucial to reform the DSV, to regulate the issue of strict procedures differently and within the DSV itself to establish a tight court. I'll say something more detailed about it in an individual debate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89557	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89558	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. In the request for a break, and then in the replica, I opened the issue of security checks, and now, on a specific issue, I would try to further explain why I consider them controversial. I don't know how wide the public knows about Judge Slavica Garac's 2016 case. Reported to the Supreme Court Judge's competition. The competition failed because, at the request of DSV, SOA carried out a security check. The security check concluded that Judge Slavica Garac was not satisfied, so she was not appointed. She filed a constitutional suit against such a DSV decision. She also succeeded with the constitutional suit, it was found that her rights had been violated because she did not know for what reasons it poses a security risk to appoint a senior court because the results of SOA's work were classified. In doing so, the Constitutional Court has even found that the right to review the file that Judge Slavica Garac has been denied does not even constitute an absolute right and that information about what is disputed about her is possible if there is a legitimate objective. However, in the DSV decision itself, there was no indication of what the objective would be. In the repeated procedure, it was more or less the same, the SOA again found that Judge Garac poses a security risk. This time, however, she was given the right to see the file, but she did not learn it from her insight into the file. Of course, she was not again appointed, again filed a constitutional suit. In this constitutional lawsuit, there was also a finding out what was disputed by the SOA, but again, for the protection of secrecy, it was not specifically stated, until today's public day it is not known what was really controversial but only the Constitutional Court cited such a sentence. Therefore, the conclusion is that this security risk can be considered to be a straight joke because it rests on an extremely inadequate causality between objectively unrelated phenomena. You know what I think is a phenomenon? The phenomenon is that it is a person who is a judge, who is a judge at the County Court in Zagreb, so in order not to impose a minimum of common sense on one and the same security risk that poses an obstacle to the appointment of this person as a Supreme Court judge should be an obstacle for this person to be a judge or judge in any court. Not only the judge, but the notary, not the porter. But it's not like that. So, I don't know Judge Slavica Garac, I really don't know if she's a terrorist, I'm just pointing to the fact that SOA's work is secret and that's my main objection why I don't want our judge to check out such an agency. So, the core task of SOA is to prevent terrorism of extremist organisations, organised and economic crime, to give out classified data, to short-term removal of various threats. And who does SOA report to? The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Croatian Parliament, that is, the political summit. And unlike some other bodies that should really shake the judiciary and carry out internal controls like this should be DSC or ethical commissions, their work is transparent and public. SOA is a secret service. And now imagine the next situation, I'll redefine it. Two parallel processes are taking place in front of our eyes these days. So, on one side of the whistle, Maja Djelek, Derek exposes the systemic corruption carried out by HDZ. In these new charges, the highest level of criminality has been found. From the Prime Minister's Office's president through the former state property minister, today the defence minister to the Croatian Parliament's president. On the other hand, this and such HDZ through its half-tron of ministers and the obedient parliamentary majority are passing laws that seek to strengthen political influence on the judiciary. So we are the only country within the EU, and perhaps in a world where the judiciary is being built by a political party that is rightly convicted of corruption. And now, in the direction of HDZ, we will obviously become the only country in the EU over whose judges are carrying out periodic security checks by secret services. So, a country where it is possible for the President of the Office of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State Property and the President of Parliament to go public with such compromising information without all parliamentary chairs being shaken, so such a state cannot survive. On the basis of all the opportunities we've had in public these days, we can all reasonably expect the State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT to take a little more serious steps and measures these days. Not only to launch investigations, not only to press charges, but to set up some demands for abolishing parliamentary immunity. And now, theoretically, imagine the situation for this law to come into effect, that at some point what is triggered by the BOOK and the DORH will come to some judge's work. Security checks will now be carried out on this judge. In these security checks, what SOA is doing, so the processes and laws relating to SOA work are not changed but I don't know for 10 years, at some point the report and the report will come not only to the judicial bodies but also to the president of the Croatian Parliament, who may be charged with trading privileged information, against one of the important ministers in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and Plenkovic's report is coming to the table and also against Plenkovic one of the nearest people, and that is his head of office, Mr. Frka Petesic, I ask you what effect this may have on the independence of the judiciary. So security checks like this, as they're imagined, disrupting the independence of the judiciary, and in a country like ours is burdened by a serious corruption affair, that actually means the fall and the breakdown of the state. So I'm asking you from these two parallel processes that take place in front of our eyes that will prevail. Those demands that fight for a state of law freed from crime or this other state in which crime creates justice. So any situation in which any authority would be allowed to have such a tool of control and manipulation over the judiciary would be bad and dangerous for the rule of law and for the judiciary as a whole. And with this law, it will be possible to put itself in the hands of the notoral and criminal HDZ. What SOA is doing does not serve to detect corruption or eliminate corruption risks. That should be done by other competent state bodies. This should be done by the State Judicial Council by verifying the data from the property cards. And where did we get with that system? Nowhere, Podokin's villages to this day. In the latest report on the state of the judicial authority we discussed in this Croatian Parliament, we heard information that systematic verification of the property cards of judges, so by connecting the databases of different state bodies will be established as soon as possible. You know when it'll be possible? Never before, or when the HDZ is removed from power because all technical conditions, technical conditions for carrying out such a systematic verification have been established long ago. Here, for example, the Committee for Conflict of Interest is 2015. Networked databases of different state bodies, then whether these information algorithms and the information system are used properly. No, because the law isn't set, and why isn't it set? Because that doesn't suit HDZ's will. And beyond that, internal internal control has done nothing. The judiciary insists on showing itself, so the judiciary as a whole as incompetent, corrupt. Yes, we have difficult judges, but we're making it impossible for all the right methods to separate the weeds from the grains. We deliberately disgust the judiciary the way we disgust it. However, some judges in this work are lovingly and systematically helping and thus giving politics a chance, and especially to this kind of policy to say no, no, we are now going to take matters into our own hands, and this independent justice is indeed the last death penalty. Now these are the real intentions of HDZ's proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89559	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Sacic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. What did you say? ... Yes, the service this technical asks of us 5, and I will give 10 minutes to this for technical reasons of merger, please nice, please nice, for technical reasons of connecting files, you know that everything is recorded not. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] So now it's 14 and 48, to 15. We're back here at 3:00. ... What? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] MEETING IN 14.49 HOURS [[Intruder: Nothing, okay]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] Here you go. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89561	It's on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89562	Is it on?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89563	Yes, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues before us are also the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. According to the proposal, municipal courts at the headquarters of the county courts and the municipal court in New Zagreb are responsible for handling cases under the law governing family relations for the area of each particular county court. According to new information today, the day of judgment is now being held, which in practice means, for example, that an educated judge from Slavonski Brod will come to the office days in Požeg. Unfortunately, for the past few years, we have been able to say for 10 years that the municipal court in Pozega is indeed living in suspense and every so much is planned to move the jurisdiction of this court to the area of another court. This also raises the question of local jurisdiction of the municipal court, organisation of space, additional costs, insurance of urgency in actions, whether it will be possible to implement this mode of work. How many judges will be available for emergencies? It will hardly be possible for such a way of working to be provided on office days and made available to professionals from the Centre for Social Care and Users, noting for emergencies. This is certainly how the way of work is better than the first reading about the availability of services to citizens who will still not be able to travel or have to travel to up to 70 kilometers of debates that are often subject to and delayed, and so it would have been a real big blow to the citizens' budget. During last year, Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica assured the public that the municipal civil courts in the cities that were the county headquarters would be established by family judicial departments. He assured the public that the urgency for all citizens to have such specialised judicial departments available in the area of their counties. But at the end of last year, there was a turn and the Ministry of Justice and Administration now states that the establishment of special family courts in our judicial system is not rational or appropriate as well as the establishment of specialised family departments in all municipal courts. Then why negotiations towards the establishment of such family courts and, according to the recommendation of the long-term work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality and Advocate General for Children and Other Professional Public. What these changes ultimately need to seek is education for judges. The fact is that some judges are under-educated and in some cases personally unmotivated, insufficient self-evident in their own, their competences, and the system does not offer but does not seek or require better training and sufficient education. Maybe it'll be different now. It takes continuous investment in education in order for judges to be able to consistently recognise and protect children's rights and interests, not as we have seen to protect biological parenting and at the cost of harsh violation of children's rights, neglect, abuse and domestic violence. These are really cases that cannot happen in the future. However, the fact is that an opportunity is missed for this as a reform that judges or future generations of judges from existing family courts or municipal courts are educated with the purpose of making decisions for the best interests of children and certainly means loss to the local community. You've missed and protected the most vulnerable groups, and these are the victims of domestic violence. The subjects of domestic violence are not covered by this specialization and that is what is bad in this case. We ask that solutions for a better sacrifice be seriously offered in the system, for better protection of victims of domestic violence and consistent implementation of legislation as well as protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89564	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89565	Dear colleagues, in view of your profession, how you comment on the fact that employees of the Social Care Centre travel for participation in procedures which will cause additional costs for the social care system itself and the spending of funds that could otherwise be directed to other purposes, but also the additional cost of time, which will reduce contacts with the parties themselves and actions towards the users themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89566	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89567	Here is certainly the availability of professional workers is what needs to be the priority of each reform and that they are really available in that part and that there is no waste of time on arrivals, on cancelled debates, on anything that they could offer their expertise more highly in consulting persons in need. As for this part, at least as far as some courts are concerned, it will change and what will actually allow professional workers to be more accessible to users, which they will not have to travel to more distant discussions, for example, from Požega to Slavonski Brod if it is ultimately as announced and accepted here and I think that this is a better solution than what was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89568	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89569	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I think you've touched one topic and it's a good thing you've touched that topic that's in your domain. So, the local problem of the court, the way it's going to work. So, between the first and second readings, there's been some improvement, and that's also in the explanation and the reference to the improvements, but somehow it seems to me that we in the debates have to touch on the real issues. How many employees do we need to have the opportunity to travel, how much time will they waste on these remotes? So, at the time of digitization, at the time of the e-mail boards, at the time of the Corona debates being done in some other way, why can't they still be these models and these ways because this is how people are going to lose shape, not content. What's important is that we point to the content and importance of what they're going to say, not the form all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89570	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89571	Well, I think that certainly what will not be available by this reform, which is actually the availability of that judge right at the time when it is necessary for emergency procedures, and it concerns the involvement of the welfare centre. We can't bring it down to office time, how much office time it's going to be in one week, if it's going to be 2-3 days a week, it's going to be one day. I mean, it all depends on the needs, but surely it won't be enough for all those jobs to get that judge to travel from county headquarters where the county court is to the municipal courts where the work is to be done. It is certainly a loss of both the resources and the expertise and that knowledge because in fact here he could be available in all municipal courts and all users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89572	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89573	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here you come from the welfare system, and one of the participants in court proceedings in family disputes is certainly also children, since they are often involved in disputes, and this was divorce, custody, separation from the family where urgent treatment is often needed. Thus, the proposed amendments to the laws would allow social workers from Gospić to travel 165km to Karlovac and back, meaning 330km in one day. A little relief also gives me the hope of this amendment, which has been proposed by, of, of, of the Justice Committee, which judges, specialised judges, would come to municipal courts that are not in county courts. But of course it's up to all of us that it's not just a declarative possibility, but that it's truly consistent and implemented. And what we can all do now together, how to encourage this possibility to be implemented and that judges both municipal and county really do use that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89574	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89575	Well, as I said, it means it's really important that in all cases, especially when the welfare center and emergency procedures are involved, that this judge is as specialized as he was in those disputes at that time when it means, when he's available otherwise, when his working time, 5 days a week, how much it's going to be possible to organise. I'm afraid this is how we distance ourselves from actually this availability to the citizens or the system in the protection of the most vulnerable. Here is how I think that as far as the organization and the regulation that the secretary of state has announced that it will organise this specialization and this mode of work, it will make sure that it is truly consistent with the same intensity as originally and imagined, which is, in fact, the best service for citizens and the protection of the most vulnerable in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89576	Thank you. Ma'am. Bliss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89577	Thank you very much. Here we will agree for sure that this amendment, mentioned by colleagues by the Committee on Justice, is welcome for rural environments or less environments such as Požega and other smaller cities. I believe, I think we should let go safely and practice for a certain time to see how it works, who will travel, who will travel, who will be the judge at the end of the trial in matters of family relations. And since you're also involved in the social care system in a certain way, you've worked, so you know it, you know maybe the data on how many items in the domain of family relations in the area of Požega that end up here at a trial in the Požega court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89578	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89579	Well, maybe I won't be precise enough or, I think, about 30% of the cases that one judge has about the work organisation so far, but I say every time such a judge means to receive, take the case, he's a priority and he's an emergency. For example, it was now possible to schedule a hearing within the deadline, the first debate within a month and a half, given the representation of these cases to 30%, and now with this way of organisation of work where these specialized judges will be burdened or have in the jurisdiction and affairs, for example, as regards Požega both in the territory of Nova Gradiška and the area of Slavonski Brod, they will certainly be more burdened by these specialised judges and I fear that they will come to a delay in that first debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89580	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89581	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlasic Iljkic, due to a united debate, we have not talked enough about this topic that you have opened, especially in the courts' seats. So certain mergers or inadequately inadequate court headquarters will cause costs not only to expensive appliances but also to customers themselves, so we in Slavonia know that we have an additional problem with this, I believe that such problems occur throughout Croatia with the lack of adequate public transport, so it also collects the service. In the end, I believe that such bill proposals should have preceded both one debate and one calculation of the potential costs of both sides and the other. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89583	Well, I certainly think that the costs of additional work will be as far as the organisation of the work is concerned, what has been changed in a way that the judge will actually come into the area of the municipal court where the party's residence is. This is one solution that is good for the parties, but certainly additional costs are there inevitable as regards both the organisation and the space whether there is room additional in those courts, which will be the issue there and the place of jurisdiction of the courts and generally requires an additional organisation, but I also say these uncertaintys are not good. Here, we talked about one way of reading, now we're talking about this other way where the public isn't, and now we're clear on what's going on. So these suspenses are certainly not good for our citizens, especially as far as family matters are concerned where they really are. the most vulnerable covered. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89584	You're done with your replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89585	I thank the vice president. I agree fully with my colleague, and I will touch more on the local issues, the topics from which I come as this law is very important in the parliamentary procedure, as I consider it important to point out the importance and consequences of the adoption of this law for residents from the Međimurje area, but also for the town of Čakovec and for the County of Međimurje as well as units of local and regional self-government, since these changes would become units with a narrowed, curtailed jurisdiction. Since there is no county court in Međimurje County but the County Court in Varazdin is in charge, this means that all procedures concerning family legal protection for citizens from Međimurje County will be conducted at the Municipal Court in Varazdin. This is said to be more unfavourable on the one hand for the parties, residents of Međimurje County, and on the other hand for the town of Čakovec and for the Međimurje County as a whole. Although family legal affairs are in practice a smaller part of the case, they are, however, faced with the same to a certain extent and can say that it is the procedures in which the court’s availability is really important to the parties where they are often expected, and that courts also call for the presence of parties at all or more hearings and where, because of the sensitivity and delicacy and the parties have a particular need to be able to approach the court. The procedures are often very stressful, uncomfortable and painful for the parties and it is very important that their participation in the procedure be as simple and accessible as possible. By seizing proceedings from the Municipal Court in Čakovec and by transferring them to the Varazdin Municipal Court, the proceedings are being moved to the area of the second county, which in itself represents a certain additional pressure for the parties. In an environment where they move less, which is less familiar and close to them, and for some, it causes additional involvement of time and money to come to court. Therefore, such a move for the citizens of Međimurje County would lead them to an unfair position towards the residents of other counties which can also lead to these judicial proceedings in the area in which they live. in his counties. It is important that the social care centre participates in these procedures, so the question is whether it will then be performing a varazdin centre which is more unfavourable again for the parties, but also more essentially inappropriate because the centres in the Međimurje County are far better acquainted and can monitor the situation in the county than the centre from another county. Or the workers from Čakovec and Prelog will be able to travel to Varazdin for participation in procedures like I said, which will cause additional costs and costs and time and money for the employees themselves. Also, by moving part of the court's jurisdiction to the Varazdin town of Čakovec and Međimurje County, they become units of the second order, and thus unfair in relation to other counties and cities of the county centres. In this respect, it opens an even worse perspective in the long term. It is very likely that it is only the first step towards moving and some other functions. And while in the middle it can only be a technical issue in the case of the Međimurje County where the function is shifted to another county is an important issue of the future, perspective and maintenance of status and importance both of the city and of the county. Even more long-term if such centralised public functions are supported, it will lead to the need for highly educated personnel growing in places where they are centralized, and in our midst this need will fall. This would lead in the longer term to transform the town of Čakovec and Međimurje County into a community where only part of public functions is performed and which will become units of less importance than identical units in which all functions are held. I therefore point out this way, and I am partly pleased that the amendment to today's Justice Committee has been accepted, but these consequences of the same for the town of Čakovec and Međimurska County, and as Čakovčanka and Međimurka, I urge that opportunities be considered and that legitimate ways try to maintain integrity and full jurisdiction so that Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec would not become the county and county headquarters of the second row because I believe that this is in the interest of all residents of Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89586	And to you, three replicas, the first replica of Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89587	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, most of your debate was actually about the jurisdiction to conduct disputes that are within the jurisdiction of family law. I assume that you prepared the debate before you knew about this amendment, which is from the Committee on Justice, so I think that the amendment will actually allow people not to travel, and so will all other stakeholders in the process as well as representatives of the Social Care Centre. So it doesn't come out of the law and it doesn't say that the employees of the centre, that it will change the jurisdiction of the local. So by the place where the person using the centre service lives, he will continue to use the service of his home care center. And as for this jurisdiction for the conduct of the proceedings, the court procedure was to contribute to the specialisation in this particularly sensitive jurisdiction, and it will certainly be possible to and in the so far municipal places; and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Smaller cities lead these actions [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] like the days of the trial. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89588	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89589	Thank you, dear colleagues, for being right. When we heard about that amendment in the morning we were partially satisfied, but I have to fight for my end since we don't even have the Mayor's Court in Čakovec, there was now a presumption that there wouldn't even be a Municipal Court in Čakovec. And as I mentioned, the town of Čakovec and Međimurje County are in a very unfavourable position, regardless of this amendment, I still believe it is becoming a unit with a narrowed jurisdiction, a judicial jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89590	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89591	Dear MPs, I understand your frustration about you no longer having a court in Chakovec. It's similar with us in Krapina, we've had a 10-year court now we don't have it, now it's in Zlatar, and we understand that it all looks different in your eyes. However, not only the courts are abolished and police stations are abolished, a lot of what this is, which is why the heads of state are trying to make optimization. I suppose while you were preparing for this point that you were talking to judges from your neighborhood and you have some suggestion that this might look like, what this optimization might look like, and yet it would be for the general satisfaction of your fellow citizens in Čakovec and others in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89592	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89593	Thank you, dear colleague. I agree with you. I must say that our Međimurje County is indeed one of the most developed regions in our beautiful region and whenever the Međimurje County stands out it can be an example for the rest of Croatia and in economic terms and any sense, and as you said slowly more and more seems to be moving and other functions. So I think we should make sure that the citizens of our Međimurje County can perform some important functions in their county, not that everything is being moved to other counties and that citizens become our own region and the town of Čakovec and Međimurje County city and the county of the second row.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89594	And Mrs. McNally. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89595	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well that you have pointed out in fact all the difficulties that would have been if the original plan had been adopted, or that the proposal in the second reading was, in fact, the way we received it in writing, also in the current debate. Since the morning we have new knowledge and this new knowledge needs to be well explained to the public because in fact all this uncertainty that has followed this reform, I say is not good, and especially related to all the recommendations of the Ombudsman for gender equality and the Ombudsman for children. How do you comment that nothing has been done in matters of family law or domestic violence? However, this specialization does not cover matters relating to the protection of the most vulnerable, which are victims of family violence and these items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89596	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89597	In today's debate, I thank my colleagues, in today's debate, someone said that the victims of the violence you have just highlighted are not in a favourable position regardless of this morning's amendment. I agree that we should be partially satisfied, but the public, as you said, is not aware of it and we must continue to insist and give reasonable arguments as to why municipal courts would remain in some headquarters. However, as far as the victims of violence are concerned in most cases, these are procedures and cases that require urgent action, so I am further concerned that if they move the jurisdiction that they will still require much more time and that these procedures will continue to be delayed, and they require the urgency of the procedure itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89598	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89599	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a united discussion in the second reading of two laws, which are amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and Amendments and additions to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. What should be opened as a topic and should always be said by the legislator or the Ministry of Justice has decided to go into something that should not be called reform but rather the theme of seeing what problems and these problems as I always stress is not one law carved into stone, let's see how to try to solve problems and when they are in use for some time then from that application see what is good and possibly try to take a step further. So, the word reform doesn't need to be understood every time as literally as possible, and I don't get it that way. I will refer in my individual discussion on two topics. One topic is court experts, and another topic I want to say is what I have given both in the replica to the secretary of state, which is the way that public publication and the availability of all decisions made. When you discuss justice a little bit or when you look at where it is and how someone assesses the judiciary, it's good for you to do research when people who work in the judiciary judge judge themselves. So there was one study where judges evaluated themselves and through this they gave individual assessments and detected that the problems were and thus we were classified on a specific scale at EU level. The judges themselves said that the problem in the judiciary is that it is not progressing towards the ability, according to knowledge, but according to some other criteria, and it is clear that it should be made possible and defined through a set of amendments and additions to the law that goes in that sense, and only then can we make a step. It seems to me that one step is in that sense, which is to be a public announcement and the availability of all judgments made. I think it's very important. It's possible to do that. The Corona era has shown that an e-Advertising Panel can function, the Corona era has shown that debates that are not physical but are far away, so if all this can work together I am sure that it can work and that we have public announcement and availability of all court decisions and, in fact, what time I am stressing, this one uniform case-law because it is certainly inadmissible to judge in one court in a certain way, and in another way is tried in another court and we really have in public space that debate about that poor bear being condemned in Istria because he barked or some other things. I would like to say a few words about the subject of the court warlocks, or even the subject that has changed between the first reading and the second reading, it is about the court interpreters and the court warlocks. That's where a few things opened up. The first thing you've opened up that you've added that it can be and someone who has a specialist degree study and I think it's good because in nature we also have specialized degrees and it's a good thing that people who have finished that one day can become court interpreters or court experts. There's something about centralization or decentralisation. I, by the way, always advocate decentralisation, I also advocate a debate that involved courts and the possibility of being absolutely accessible to citizens in a way that really does not pose an obstacle to them. This is where one step in the other direction was made. So far, it has been the jurisdiction of individual courts who have appointed experts or permanent court interpreters, now it goes to the department's jurisdiction, the justice department will decide on the status issues of permanent court witches, or rather will be told by a regulation as to who might be. They will no longer be appointed for a certain time but, once you become a court expert or interpreter, you have it all the time. This reference was also made to one, one position of the Constitutional Court of 2017. When the court experts wanted to set up their chamber and they referred to all of this, so the subject of the court warlocks was somehow left under the radar, and I think it's extremely important to talk about it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89600	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89601	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, so I'd just like to say, I agree with the centralised system for court experts, especially if we know everything that was in practice. So we know that at the end of the judgment in the court, it depends on the skill that has been known to be for various reasons often contrary to common common sense, whether because one of the witches is working for both sides and for the other, so who can do more in his favor, so we have various examples and should not close our eyes in front of them. And here on that side, I actually just want to express the same satisfaction that this system of skills is therefore foreseen in the law in a way that will be centralized. It's true that the minister increases his powers, but I believe he's ready to take a form of responsibility that may eventually come out of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89602	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89603	Thank you very much. I purposely in my individual debate decided to refer to the subject of court experts for the simple reason that you have a series of judgments that are basically based on findings that were made by court experts, and that, in a few cases, I won't say it often and I don't want to be rude is the subject of going witch on the same thing and then happening, I was looking at it in some kind of property legal cases not to say building land and property where the witches are, the difference was, not now 10%-20% but the difference was twice as big. The fact is that this has been reduced since the time the law was passed that defined how construction and other land can be evaluated. But regardless of which I have some experience I appreciate that it's going to be a rule transfer, that it's going to be at the ministry level, that it's going to be run in one place better, and somehow I think we should give it a chance to see if that's really going to be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89604	Thank you, thank you, time, time. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Marin Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89605	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. In my individual debate, I will somehow look at the issue of the jurisdiction of municipal courts over family matters. I see that today, following the whole day of the debate somehow came quite into the focus of this issue, that question, which, somehow, was not the case during the debate in the first reading of the bill. I am one of those who has troubled this issue between the two readings of the reduction of actually the network of courts, which I say provides a service of family legal protection to our fellow citizens and I welcome the amendment that came before the face of the judiciary and which the representatives of the promoters have already said that they intend it as such, as such and accept it. We'll all agree that it's not questionable, it's not questionable to specialize in judges, that there is a need to increase the family's legal protection of the most vulnerable. It's all okay, but of course if you go in the direction of reducing the network of courts, reducing the availability of services then of course you always need to find some balance. This amendment seems to be able to hit that balance, so it can hit that intensity. But I must also express a moderate dose and caution to the solution this amendment offers us. In fact, by looking at the Law of Courts on Areas and Courts, into the law that we are actually changing, in just two paragraphs above, if we look at it, we are now changing Article. 2., in accordance with Article 4, we add Article 5 and the amendment to Article 6, and looking at paragraphs 3 and 4 there, and the existing law mentions the courts that already have so far as to tell the mole jurisdiction and now the 4 municipal courts in our judicial system do not have all the jurisdiction. The municipality court in Kutina, Makarska, Crikvenica, Djakov has no jurisdiction over criminal cases. Those cases are done by other courts. This, even then, happened three years ago, as it is now wanted to jump into writing in paragraph 4. that the presidents of the courts would be obliged to ensure the conditions for conducting the proceedings in Đakovo, Crikvenica, Makarska and the Case Box in those areas. And again, I say what I have to say is that what I have to be certain is to say with caution in this solution is to look at the practice in the last three years. In Djakov, specifically when we talk about the criminal cases of these proceedings, there were certain zeros. So we're proposing now one solution that we're trying to jump into by still having a wide network of availability, and in practice we already have in the same law very similar to almost the same solution that doesn't actually live somehow. So here's what I'm asking the Proposer to think about once again, see why this same thing in practice doesn't work and now we're offering it as a solution for family matters. Will this practice work in the case of family matters? This would be a question of only four courts, okay, criminal cases, you can go over it. This is about family cases that are a lot of reasons why here is really why such objects should be handled on a much wider network of courts, not only in these 16 places in the Republic of Croatia, so I ask that a little reconnaissance be made to think about why such a system does not work, this model in criminal cases, so that it does not happen to us with family, with family items. I say, of course, the law and the amendments and this amendment are welcomed, but let's just make sure once again that I tell us that the intensity of the amendment doesn't happen, it's not in practice fulfilled, and then we have to go back to changing the law through a few months if we see that it doesn't work. Here's so much from me in person, that's what I wanted to look back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89606	Thank you, too. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague from your debate can be seen that you are not entirely satisfied with this solution although it is much better than what we had in our first reading, and what was the possibility that your citizens from Đakov will have to travel to Osijek for discussions that are often subject to delays and all happiness from this has given up. However, the fact is that even though your court in Đakov and Požega are still losing some jurisdiction, they will not be responsible for these matters related to family legal matters. How do you comment on this fact that it fails to invest in young judges and develops legal practice regarding family legal matters and judges from the area, or who are now employed at the Municipal Court in Đakov?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89608	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89609	Here, thanks for asking. I said balance issue. As far as the legal protection of our fellow citizens is concerned, it would be best if we in all the district courts in all the regular services that are all 90 and something we have organized specialized departments. It's a matter of the economics of such a system. It is likely that this proposal, which was presented by the ministry and some analysis, the number of cases, the number of cases completed, the predictive number of cases to come, the number of judges, is likely to be some optimal, optimal, optimal measure between what I say specialising a narrow or wide network and the issue of the economy of that network. This amendment seems to achieve a good balance, but with this small fence, to make sure that the intensity of the amendment in practice is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89610	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89611	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mandaric, here are the last 2-3 months we have talked about this subject many times because we had the same, same opinion on the bill that will affect our citizens, mine in Lika and yours in Djakov, but also in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment, which has been put in some way, is a little lenient on the situation of inaccessibility of family legal protection, but we must also not allow it to remain just a dead letter on paper. I agree with you, and we need to see in some way how we can take advantage of this possibility and that county and municipal courts are really using these office days, that specialised judges come to municipal courts outside the county courts and that they're setting up a job there so that, in order to reduce our citizens in some way, we can reduce that path that they have to cross and do their own expenses and waste time to go In a remote county center. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89612	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89613	Yeah, thanks for asking. Of course, that is why we are actually going into this kind of extra thinking to save our citizens, users of these judicial services time, energy, money, not only their own, but also the resources of welfare centres, lawyers and all others. The point is that our citizens have the same service in the same place, and they don't care if they're going to be tried by a judge who's employed by a court in Požega and Brod, Virovitica and Bjelovar, Đakov, Osijek, this party doesn't care. She doesn't care if she has a legal favor nearby, fast and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89614	Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89615	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Mandaric, as you have said, you are the initiator of this amendment that has brought the judiciary closer to our citizens and which the government will accept, but what these amendments to the Law on Courts give as one great advantage is the specialisation of judges and it is really necessary because it actually speeds up both procedures and everything else. Also in our discussions, we also came up with data that specific cases of family law have very small numbers in certain seats, in certain permanent courts services, and therefore it was justified to move to county centres. However, now with this amendment that you have proposed together on the board and that the government will accept whether you are at risk of this specialization is essentially the most valuable thing that brings us this amendment to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89617	The Committee is the amendment's promoter, not me. Again, I think that this is some kind of correct balance, that the specialization is not compromised, that again, the main purpose, the promoter's intention was actually to set up 16 places across Croatia specifically, where there will be judges who have passed additional training that will also have support in terms of psychologists, social educators and all other professions, that they will be able to function, and what was on our side was amongst the 2 readings, I think it's difficult to repeat it again, I think it's satisfactory that this profession will actually go on the ground and again do that work on the ground today in these same locations to bring justice services closer to people, so as to say again, to waste time on energy and money to achieve some of its fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89618	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89619	Thank you, Chairman. Today, a respected colleague of mine, we have, in practice, at large courts of judges who only work this kind of family legal protection. So, there has been no special progress in the professional sense, which justifiably warns us that specialization itself as a specialization and its heading into the law itself as well as I don't know what way of implementing it, I'm afraid it won't lead to that final result. I welcome the attempt because as long as we try we'll probably guess and find one way that's best. For this reason, I welcome this attempt, but here is somehow justifiably a lamp appears to me in my head since in 2015, the number of children who did not actually have this, let's say clean adoption papers, so parents were not deprived of the right to raise compared to today have doubled the number of children per home, and the number of adopted children remained the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89620	Thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89621	You're absolutely right that in larger courts that have more cases, more people and judges could afford that situation to specialise in a particular type of case. If that's what he's doing in practice, it leads to better judgments I'll say faster, probably yes, probably on some average, because in itself he imposes on himself if someone's only doing that job if he specializes in being better at it. And as for individual cases, there is probably as well as in all other jobs and failures and the need for, the need for corrections of future ones, but again I say the system that is proposed should be further strengthened by specialization both in those places and in those courts that have not so far. That our judiciary will be ideally never, but that it will rise to a higher level we believe it will by this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89622	Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89623	Thank you. A respected colleague of what no one has touched today, and I am very interested in what exactly are the clear criteria under which the jurisdiction of individual courts is lifted. Is it a poor quality building, insufficient, lack of space in the building, whether it's an insufficient number of cases or a poor assessment of judges. So, please, your opinion may be that you have more knowledge of the exact criteria for removing the jurisdiction of individual courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89624	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89625	I wouldn't know, I'm not a proposer in this sense would probably be more directed if you had referred the question to the secretary of state who was here, but what I can say is that again the professional ministries and only the ministry and proposed this model based on a deep analysis, a long-term analysis looking at this issue with more, on the other hand, and that they also proposed such an optimal proposal and proposed it to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89626	And finally Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89627	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you said well in the debate what has been proposed in the form of an amendment committee should actually be a balance between that specialization that we want in family legal protection and accessibility to citizens. And I think I understand this fear of yours as well as how it will work in practice, but I think that fear should actually be removed for the reason that in the proposed amendment, responsibility is on the presidents of the courts. So, they are not left at will whether they want something or not, but are obliged to organise all the debates, and they also file reports, and this will also be monitored by the ministry. Also, the reports in the final report on the functioning of the judiciary come to us here, and I think it will be a common known thing whether it works or doesn't work, and then eventually you'll know who's responsible for something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89628	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89629	Practice will show good you said, and it seems to me I said the same. I wish I'd got this all wrong that it would be all right, but I still hold on to reading one, the other, the third, so it would be all right if I turned my attention to the proposer once again to pay attention to this potentially possible situation because we have a similar situation so far, and it didn't work. It seems to me that this law does not tell us that it will have to be done, but we are leaving the presidents of the county courts to be able to do so again. But I still hold that all the expensive legal changes that are ahead of us are good, raising the state of justice to one higher level, and of course the trust of our citizens in the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89630	And to you, no more replicas, now it's gentlemen's turn, Mrs. Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89631	I thank the chairman. So, I have already said in my opening address that my goal is to present a little more detail about possible changes that are going towards improving the choice of judges and the work of the DSV. As far as the choice of judges is concerned, what seems to us to be crucial to the public is that all interviews with candidates for judicial functions and positions need to be made permanently, therefore permanently, not at that time, made available to the public through video streaming as necessary and made publicly available all documents that are considered in the selection process for all judicial positions except, of course, those documents that have a confidentiality mark. We also think it would be good to open DSV to professional organisations, law offices, prosecutors, academic institutions, etc. to give their views on the candidates themselves and their work so far in election procedures. That opinion would not, of course, be binding, but would allow public insight and a wider picture of a particular candidate. As far as public security is concerned in the proceedings, we therefore feel that the public should also be provided with a strict procedure. Therefore, when a tight procedure is carried out, it is therefore necessary to ensure that the transfer and visibility of the procedure itself is ensured, of course by law, and the DSV should inform the Assembly annually of all the strict procedures which have been taken and which have been their results. Also when we talk about DSV and the tightness of procedures, it is extremely important to expand the circle, expand the circle of people who can initiate a tight, tight procedure. So, the current authorised proselytes, the presidents of the courts, the judicial council or the minister have shown very little interest so far, and we can also say low activity on the launch of the tight procedure until the moment when in fact the public and political no longer could bear the pressure on the evidence of any violation of the law, whether the ethics of the judicial duty, and then they had to run them. So we don't even have enough to run a tight process, and we don't know any less about what their results are. We therefore believe that the first establishment of a special office should be envisaged by the President of the Supreme Court who could carry out investigations when there is a suspicion that there is a need to initiate a strict case against the judge, and this office could also act on the basis of complaints from citizens, so not only the previous authorised applicants. In this way we again contribute to what I said was one of the four pillars of justice reform, which is its opening up to the public and responsibility means... to the public, yes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also wanted to point out that it is an important, important element of this proposal to amend and supplement the law and it is actually perhaps one of the more controversial topics, which is the issue of the security checks on judges. So it's clear to us that this is a proposal to add an article if I'm not mistaken in 86a. In fact, there were situations where the entire judiciary was compromised because of certain actions by individual judges. However, the way this is proposed is, firstly, completely unspeakable and we do not see how this will contribute to the situation in the judiciary. So, first of all, we have to say it's not clear what's going to happen when a judge by the Security Verification Act refuses security clearance and does not sign on a security check request, where exactly did you predict what would happen then? The other thing is, security checks don't have those standards that you have in a criminal procedure or a strict procedure, they don't reach them, and they only give certain indications. What will be the consequence of these indications?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89632	Thank you very much, ma'am. But you have replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89633	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Bencic, you've opened security checks, but it's probably someone else's turn, but I'm going to refer to that first part of your exposure, which is the public. The public, the openness, the transparency, we've heard so many times from this pay phone that from the ruling which of us is in opposition and it becomes such a corny word. It seems to me that the interest of the entire judiciary and the interest of the judges should be that everything that happens in these proceedings is public. This should be their interest because at the moment when decisions are made publicly, at the time when certain actions are public, when they are available to all they will no longer be a topic, there will be no topic of discussion, you will be able to compare something, and besides, the judges themselves will be able to do something about it. So, interest that if we want to settle the situation in the judiciary and the interests of those who are in that judiciary, I read it to the judges, of course, and all the others, their interest should be public to be all public. I don't understand why it's not possible to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89634	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89635	I completely agree with you. So, at a time when you trust the public in the judiciary for years is so low, and that's the basis of the functioning of that system, so that's the basis of the social contract. The basis of the social contract is trust in these institutions that they will do what the Constitution and the law have prescribed and we do not have it. And now, as we are doing a mini reform and again we are not prescribing the basic elements, the basic elements that this trust could restore, such as the public of the work of the courts. Not only the public work of courts in terms of the visibility of the sessions, etc. but we don't have court decisions, court decisions aren't visible, you can't read them, you can't read them by another judge who might want to bring his practice into line with the practice of some second-degree body or Supreme Court because no decision has been published in time or has never been published, so we're at that level, we're in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89636	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89637	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, of course, like any law passed in Croatia in HS, have articles that call for much more debate and give more attention to them. I would say that one segment that changes this law significantly and edits almost nothing in individual debates, and even in the name of clubs, which are judicial officers who are very important to the whole system. Art. 116 changes significantly in their favor of certain things, improving I would say both their material and all their status, which I think is very good given the work they do and the dangers they are exposed to in their work. So here's your opinion on this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89638	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to tell you, so we've been going with our proposals to improve the entire infrastructure of work and courts and judicial officials, as well as the people of the staff, so the deputy is improving. Because you can't have an efficient system when if you have 34 municipal courts, 15 county courts, I still don't know how many of these specialized, etc., what, everything I've listed before, so you can't. You have a court, you have a court, it seems to me to me in a long village that didn't have your guards. The last time I talked to my colleague's lawyer, she said he didn't have anyone to examine if they had a gun, they didn't have a gun, he could go in there and kill people. So we have this situation in courts. So, any improvement in employees' material rights we will support, but we think that the entire infrastructure is in such a bad state that, to this number and to this quantity, it is not possible to improve and that we must ic into territorial reorganisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89639	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89640	Dear MPs, in order to remind and draw attention to how in vain our efforts are in terms of transparency I will remind you that it is 2001. a project called a collision network is launched. There was one database in the project that was prescribed where court decisions, court experts, state attorneys and everything else that was done and that would be transparent and to balance court decisions. That was 2001, 2008. is brought there for half a year by a new rule that prescribes the same, so it re-requites the same data and the same database that already exists in 2001. Today in 2022. We have a recovery and resilience plan of the same plan again, we're spending money, and the results are zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89641	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89642	Thank you for that. So here I was the other day here talking about how many times we've been raising loans and withdrawing money from pre-accession funds and now from this perspective of 2014-2021 for reforming the social care system. I invested, invested, invested, I came up with a billion money, there was, there was everything, so 30-40 million dollars, 70 million euros, these are loans, and then donations, etc., etc. The result is that 2021. In 2022, the direction is completely changed after all these investments. The same is true, so countless times have been projects to level the case law, publish court practice, raise money or withdraw from EU funds for the development of software for the publication of judicial practice. We still today, be careful, we are worse than Serbia in this, Serbia has a better system of declaration of court rulings than we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89643	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89644	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Bencic, I think that we are both indisputably in favour of the fact that the judiciary must be well and shaken and combed and stronger control must be introduced in the justice system, but only a question is raised which body should implement it. If I understand your exposure well, and you've indicated that SOA may not be the happiest solution, among other things, because the existing Security Verification Act requires that a person who checks sign consent, and we don't define what happens if it doesn't. I would only hope that the content of what SOA determines is certainly not talking about us finding some corrupt crime. We're going to discover something that eventually a judge can compromise in a different way if we don't have previously built standards at DSV level, which is appropriate or not suitable for one judge, we're simply going to be on a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89645	Thank you very much, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89646	That's right, I couldn't agree more with you. This is Pandora's box that opens with this. First of all, we advocate that strict procedures are done within a tight court within the DSV, so there are clear procedural rules. In doing so, we must stress that security checks do not reach even the standards of criminal proceedings in terms of evidence, the quality of evidence, and even of strict procedures. So what security clearance gives you is let it be a character assessment or doubt or even some private and personal stuff. What, what can it lead to, what can it lead to? It can lead to you having people employed in SOA who can directly blackmail a single judge in a particular case and we actually opened up a space of corruption instead of closing it down. Because how will they decide based on these indications, what will be the power of it? It will be decided by a five-member council, how, will it be uniform, will all be subject to the same criteria, what are the criteria? There's no answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89647	No more, no more, no more replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89648	I thank the president. My colleagues and MPs, I have already been through the replica and through the request for a break, and then also in the debate on behalf of the club, pointed out that security checks are like this, as one difficult and harsh attack on the independence of the judiciary and one solution that deviates from generally accepted international standards at EU level. If we want to improve procedures and internal controls in our judiciary, we need to start from the State Judicial Council. For a number of years, I am in favour of changing the structure in such a way as to remove from the membership of the existing 11 MPs sitting in the council of state that I believe, by no means, by means of my own vote, according to professional preparation, by experience of life, they simply have no competence to carry out those procedures for which the State Judicial Council is in charge, in particular, the process of appointing or resolving a judge, the procedure to determine its strict responsibility or, for example, the verification of the data from the property cards. A parliamentary representative may be anyone with any or any professional training. The procedure to determine whether the property card has been completed properly or not has required specific specialised knowledge. This is also a relic of the influence of politics on the rule of law that we are unable to get rid of, we are going in the opposite direction, we are asking that politics be the ones that will be more closely monitored and controlled by what is happening in the judiciary. And how empty and pathetic the State Judiciary Council shows a report that we recently discussed that recently carried out the system's information but only to the level that judges are now submitting electronic property cards. A system has not yet been established to control whether the data is correct. For now, the State Judicial Council is conducting a check at a purely administrative level to see if the property card has arrived, whether it has been signed, and we will later on when the conditions are obtained. And even that minimal administrative part was a big problem. Do you know why? Therefore, not only because DSV members do not perform their duties professionally but they are judges or I say 2 parliamentary representatives or people from the Faculty of Law but also do not have an adequate professional service. 11 official jobs are foreseen in the structure, but only 3 are currently filled, and neither was the minimum requirement of administrative verification of the property cards done properly and was a large bite. And now we just go back for a moment to the number of tight procedures conducted by that body. So, the miserable few, the procedures are I'm going to say to some extent and the crumbs are so much that there's still too many files anonymous, and I think that when one judge is found to have done something dishonest, something that might even disqualify him from being one of the judges then it should be published on all the bells. If we want to increase the public's trust in the judiciary, then any judge who, among other judges, does not have the place to publicly publish his name and last name but also publicly publish what that judge did or did not do and does not comply with the standards of the judicial profession. When we build this internal control system, when we're going to check what property the judge has, and if that property could legally get out of the income that the state gives and pays and is known literally in June, in every decimal, in every decimal point, so when we compare it to the standard of living of many of our judges who step away from their payroll, then we'll be pretty much on the right track. And when we add this not only to the strict actions carried out by the State Judiciary Council but also decisions made by the Ethics Commission, when a system of ethics is built among the judges themselves, when judges are strengthened in terms of their self-awareness that even the slightest inappropriate coffee, for example we remember the coffee Josipa Rimac and Judge Turudić in the main square just before the prosecution of serious crimes. These are things that our judiciary needs to be eliminated and judges should be themselves who notice, report, sanction and condemn such things, and no SOA. The SOA responds to the prime minister and the president of the state, politics, in doing so secretly. Let's not let what happened in the case I mentioned this morning happen. where, from 2016 to today, the procedure of the insecure is conducted, and does not know the reason for the insecure so far. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89649	Mrs. Benicic, Mrs. Benicic asked for a replica. No, don't stay, stay, please Mrs. Bencic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89650	Thank you. Here is my colleague Oreshkovic, and I would like to point out one more important question. [[No one's making you.]] Thus, recommendations made by the Centre for Democracy Miko Tripalo, with the help of indeed one of the country's best experts on the issue of justice, highlight the issue of assigning cases to judges. So, automation of this single assignment and elimination of manual assignment, however, nothing is actually said about how the algorithm of the assignment, what criteria should be had for this particular assignment, and we know that where and where there is an automated assignment that for certain objects for which there are no criteria of complexity that should exist in that algorithm are still hand-to-hand assigned items and that it is actually a space of manipulation to the subjects and to those judges who, let's say, wish to be assigned a particular subject because of a certain outcome. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89651	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89652	Thank you, colleague Bencic, thank you very much for not having arrived at the individual debate to say that we are actually having a great absurdity on one side. The ruling accepted and elected Judge Radovan Doberic as Supreme Court President. Among other things, he spoke a lot about how it works or how the system of electronic allocation of objects does not function. Among other things, he said that judges generally know nothing about it, nor have the possibility of any technical possibility of checking what happens with the assignment of the file in practice. However, there is a whole other set of anomalies and deformities, for example, that the complete e-script base is run not only by the Ministry of Justice but even by FINA. This morning I asked the Supreme Court for information on the number of cases the state is leading against anyone, the answer was we don't know because we don't have that database or we can extract it from what's important. It's government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89653	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89654	So, fellow Oreshkovic, in public let's say so created a consensus that cases last too long. Do you see in these amendments and additions of any kind, any improvement in this direction means that the duration of the case is reduced, and in particular taking into account the fact that the Article 66 does not change, it seems to me that it has made it possible for the presidents of the courts to hold off indefinitely on the basis of the deadline for the verdict and that they do not have to even explain it, I am asking you because we have received the impression and some and people with their files have come to us, one of them also gave to the Secretary of State where the President of the Court literally has postponed the time for the verdict for two years. So he wrote in that solution for 24 months without having to explain why, nor does the party have the right to complain about it, and this is not one procedure and we all know how long these proceedings take. and that it should be shortened. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89655	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89656	Thank you, colleague Peović, for 20 and a few years I've been looking at the files, solving the files, and monitoring how long certain files last. I'm going to go back to Judge Radovan Dobronic's program and ask the MPs if we've been sitting on our ears? It's none of your business, it's also the parliamentary majority. So if we want to shorten the process we have to change the system, we have to change the way that every year unnecessary new hundreds and hundreds of identical objects are generated. And that means that safe, stable and reliable court practice must be established. The moment that every citizen of ours will be able to get reliable information about how his case is about to end, then he will be well aware of whether or not he is paid to sue him indefinitely. So when we get to that level then the number of cases in court will be smaller, then the automatic pressure in the daily way of working for each individual referendum will be significantly different than it is now. It's not always the judges' fault, but we have too little information about what's in each Referade is happening. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89657	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89658	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, the motion to amend the laws on areas and courts' seats to provide family legal protection effectively considers it necessary to carry out that specialisation of judges who handle matters of family legal protection. The analysis of the efficiency of the work of courts and the inflow of cases considers that the establishment of special courts in our judicial system is not rational and that the establishment of specialised family departments in all municipal courts is not rational. Since family legal protection must be made available to all citizens, a legal solution has been proposed to ensure the availability and effectiveness of and protection, namely that family legal protection will be ensured in every judicial area or area of jurisdiction of each county court. Therefore, municipal courts in county courts, 16 of them and the Municipal Court in New Zagreb would be responsible for handling matters of family legal protection. This proposal to me as representatives and residents of Lika-Senj County is not acceptable because it would mean that my fellow citizens would have to travel to Karlovac where the county court is based. Such an organisation, Gospićani, would have had to travel to Karlovac, which is 165km away because of family legal disputes that have been resolved in a family court in their town. So in two directions, that's 330 kilometers a day. The talk with the court in Ličko-Senj County began in 2011 when the County Court in Gospić was attached to the County Court in Karlovac and continued to work as a permanent service in Gospić, reducing the number of employees to 15, from 15 to 15 of them to only 2 judges, and the former 5 municipal courts were joined in a municipal court in Gospić. Already at that time, the parties in the proceedings have difficulty in accessing the court since it is the county with the largest area, traffically poorly connected, rarely populated, and the distance between cities and municipalities and the current municipal court is sometimes over 100km in one direction. And the proposed divorce proposal, as well as all other family legal matters, such as family care decisions, trust in children, child support procedures, support of a mate, establishment of paternity dispute, and so on, our fellow citizens should travel on their own cost to Karlovac. In case of going to justice for family legal disputes, the question is whether the parties will be able to cover the costs, how social workers will do their job if they lose all day for one hearing, the children will be out of work, the parties will be out of work, and there are also those citizens who can't even get to distant courts because traffic communication with Karlovac is very bad, and not everyone has personal cars. Family items are sensitive to children, these are emergency items in which they must be handled within a day or two. I therefore consider it necessary to adopt an amendment of the Committee on Justice for which, whose proposal I myself have advocated amending Article 2 of the Laws on Areas and Seats of the Courts where paragraph 6 is added: The Presidents of the County Courts in whose area the municipal courts referred to in Article 5 of this Article shall ensure the conditions for taking procedural actions in matters under the law governing family relations in other municipal courts in the field of a particular county court. All of us counties who do not have the head office of the county court would certainly be more pleased that in the municipal courts in our places we have specialised judges from family legal protection, but respecting the arguments of the proposings in terms of the specialisation we consider necessary, the inflow of cases of this kind, of human resources, and the projection of future burdens on family matters, I believe that the possibility of the proposed amendment significantly increases the availability of discussions in family legal matters. Otherwise, family legal protection would only be declared accessible to citizens, and in this way future specialised judges will be able to hold hearings in other municipal courts according to the local jurisdiction of the county court. In this way, only a judge and a notary would travel on an office day, so let's call him that, where necessary, depending on the number of cases instead of all the participants in the proceedings before the court because the participants in the proceedings are more, there are lawyers and the costs of paying lawyers, I also said social care centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89659	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89660	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. In your individual debate, you mentioned the importance of family legal protection, in particular I would say in the area of Lika-Senj County from which you come and perhaps what people don't even know, and that Ličko-Senj County is the largest Croatian county and that over 9% and 9.5% of the entire Republic of Croatia wastes on that county, which unfortunately is the county with an average age of over 45. that is, with an ageing index of more than 160% and that, apart from cities and municipalities in the area and the county, there are 255 settlements, so from the prism of life and hence concreteity, which means when politics and government don't listen to citizens to say what it meant to abolish the county court and what it will mean if the government accepts this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89661	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89662	Thank you, dear colleague. Yeah, you're fine, you've done well this one showing the conditions that are in Licko-Senj County which, besides everything, has a very low population density, it's now about 8 inhabitants per square mile, it's the largest in many things and in many spheres of life, citizens are really cut off for some basic things, and I think it started in 2011 to make the judiciary more difficult. Thus, the suspension of the county court also affected the business of the prison in Gospić because Gospić also has a prison that has both open and closed and semi-open type, meaning he has all the elements of the penitentiary, which means that there are also a large number of users or prisoners who support long prison sentences and who, who are being tried under the Penal Code and who must be driven by the cost of the state in Karlovac and back and back again, which certainly collects the service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89663	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89664	Thank you. So, I think I'd like to repeat once again that, if the question of availability of courts or access to court is not a matter of physical proximity because the fact that we can't have a court everywhere and let's be realistic here especially for Lika-Senj County, someone from Plitvica is Gospić away, I think and it's also unrelated, right? So it seems to me that much better access to a smaller number of courts, but more outposts that don't even have to be permanent, can also be occasional that depend on the number of cases. Because real people aren't the problem that someone has to go to court somewhere, the problem is that they have to walk for 10 years, that's the problem. The problem is that our disputes, for example, last familyly for 10 years, that's the problem. And if he had to go once, it wouldn't be a problem to go to Zagreb, if he had once, to get rid of it. That is the key problem with access to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89665	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89666	Yes, I agree with you, if it were in one debate then it wouldn't be a problem at all, it would somehow find transportation and costs for it, but we are aware that it won't be in any near future, that there will be no judicial proceedings to end so quickly, and especially in the family legal protection in which the children are involved and a lot of things are going on, it is going slower and certainly the same thing, in my opinion it is a good suggestion that there will be as many of these exposures and I believe that this amendment bar will allow a specialised judge who, for example, will be in Karlovac, Pula or somewhere that he will come to those smaller places in municipal courts and do his job there. So it is not necessary at this time for this judge to be in Gospić, to be in Pula, to be in Djakova, but to come to these places because it is also cheaper for the state and for everyone and for the citizens than to be, that citizens travel to court.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89667	Thank you. And let's not forget there's a video connection, if we can and the courts can't. Video testimonies, etc. Here you go, Mrs. President. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89668	Thank you. I'm going to do it again, so I'm going to do it again, so I'm going to do it on the trail of what's been said. If we wanted to cut these procedures short, then this was now an opportunity to change the law exactly in a way that encouraged faster case-solving. But we didn't do it clearly. But the other thing, you reacted, you said to the first article of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Areas and Courts I wish you had responded to the second article, so why? Because unlike this availability that I agree with, somehow, it means that second-degree judgments or resolution of complaints are not necessarily necessary for all county courts to have powers but rather it would have been better if it had remained the way it was in the past law that they were specialised courts, especially in family law where it is very important for judges to be educated on these issues, and now, instead of 3, all of these powers will be exercised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89669	Thank you very much, ma'am. Peovic. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89670	Yes, of course we'd all like to, yes, that all cases in the judiciary are resolved much faster. I'm not competent to say why or why not, but I would love to, if everything goes much faster, you might be able to discuss it a little later with the secretary of state who may already have some suggestions or ideas so that our judiciary can speed up a little bit. And as far as the second part is concerned, I've already forgotten, so for the specialization of judges and in the second-degree settlement of cases, it wasn't the part I was dealing with because these five minutes were more important to me than that regional availability and what bothers the citizens of my county.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89671	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mrs. Katarina Peovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89672	Thank you. Well, I'm going to explain the two amendments that we've submitted and that are going right on the trail of what I've just pointed out in the replicas. So if we all agree on that, and I think we all agree here, there's no dispute between the opposition and the ruling, that we should speed up means procedure, that we should speed up dispute resolution. Then you should go in that direction to legally and change exactly those articles that are problematic. So I proposed an amendment that is brand-new, which means a new article. It means amending Article 66(1) of the existing law which says and which should read so. If the President of the Court finds that the application has been established for an extension, the deadline will, as a rule, be set for a maximum period of six months, so, unless the circumstances of the case require a longer period within which the judge has to resolve the case and is now added to this proposal and which may not be longer than one year. So we had this practice and I gave the secretary of state a document that was anonymous. So, where we deleted the data where it stands, it means the President of the Court has decided to extend the case to 24 months. Two years I've been thinking totally unacceptable, it's not one subject, it's a series of such objects. The second point is, the decision establishing the basis of the request does not have to be reasoned and it is not permitted to appeal, so it is now set out in Article 66(1), and is added unless a period of more than 6 months is fixed. So if a period is set for more than 6 months, so the minimum would be that the President of the Court would explain why he allowed the extended period and that the argument could be filed. So the party can't complain if the President of the Court decides it can take 24 months without any explanation. So these are the changes that would be necessary, but of course now that means adding an article that is not these amendments, these amendments and additions, but it does, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 196(4) may do so. I, too, call on the Secretary of State to respect this article as to why this amendment can be made, because it is a matter of what this business item allows, which is to be harmonised with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 29(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. which determines that each person has the right to decide, within a reasonable period, by means of a law established by an independent and impartial court, on his rights and obligations or on suspicions or charges for a criminal offence. It is also indicated in Article 116(3) that the establishment, part-circuit, composition and establishment of courts and the proceedings before courts are governed by the law. So this procedure and the right of everyone to decide within a reasonable period of time on his rights, so the Court of Justice gives the right to introduce this amendment. Because I think that everyone who goes into any kind of trial means it's extremely important that the sooner they find out what the results of this process are and what they can expect, and not that they're actually going to go on forever, so in some situations it really traumatizes people that they don't even know what they're going to be no matter what they think the whole thing is completely unnecessary. So a series of measures, and that should also be said in these amendments, is the impression that the legislator is really interested in actually shortening those deadlines of these procedures, and then it is completely unclear from that perspective why it was going, why, let's just say, this didn't work out. It seems paradoxical to me if it didn't turn on. In fact, it is important to make this possible by this amendment. The second thing is what I mentioned in the replica, what is related to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, so you have a situation in which it is now possible in the sphere to specialise certain courts for certain areas in a secondary procedure to take away this specialization in some way. So we had different legal issues from family law to bankruptcy of certain specialised county courts that decided in secondary proceedings. They've now taken that specialization away. That's extremely bad. So in this case, we do not have the availability of important courts, but really specialisation is really the most important, and here I propose that this Article 2 of these final draft laws amending and supplementing the law on areas and courts' seats be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89673	Next individual debate, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89674	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President, representatives of the motionary. Today, in general, in these afternoons, we have four laws regarding courts. And the fact is that what we're discussing right now through this united debate is changes that are cosmetic nature, literally cosmetic nature. And I don't know for what reasons it would be called judicial reform. Let us read what Croatian means reform, then we will see that it is not that in any case. According to what is essentially written, we have, yes, we'll have court specialization, which is also good because we won't in that way, we may have better judgments and then maybe further actions that are related to complaints or the prosecutions of a higher court will be reduced, but that will show the future. The future will show a lot of things, but we could just learn from the past. Because here it is, according to the analysis that it is, the average of the trade court takes 1,000 days, it's about 3 years, it's not good for business, and the commercial courts I think are more or less specialised. Here, I see that we have this division that I was talking about in the replica, so about copyright specializations, intellectual property on the one hand, and about other kinds of activities on the other. Okay. There may be some shift, but are we going to reduce the average of three years in commercial court proceedings? We don't know. I'm not sure. Like what surprised me like this, on behalf of the parliamentary majority, the former minister who said that we should analyse why we get a million and 800 thousand cases in courts annually. So it hasn't even been analyzed yet. It's not even analyzed yet, we're changing the courts' seats here for specialization, and we don't know why we're doing it because it's said that we need to ask ourselves because we don't know why we're getting millions and 800 thousand cases in our courts annually. But I'm going to defend the court system now. It's not the court system. It is both legislative and executive power. How many laws we have passed say that everything will be regulated by a rule that the Minister once passed, which he does not bring. A regulation that the Government has once passed, which does not bring or expire as in the case of state property. But I don't want to talk about it, but I'm going to talk about something that's now left-hand, and because it's written by the Labour Act again. Here's the deal, Art. The 9th century 1 says that employers and workers can also agree on greater rights than those guaranteed by law or collective agreement or by labour regulations, so that in Article 2 they can also be agreed on and lower rights than those provided for by law, collective agreement and other legal signatures, and then in Article 3 of that same law they also write to you, that they must always interpret the right that is more favourable to the worker, unless otherwise specified. Now, you tell me, if I'm a worker, I don't have 100 lawyers to comb court practice, which I have the right to by art. 9 of the current current Labour Act. Or, better yet, let's deal with concessions on the marine good. You have three laws that, which touch this, you have a series of rules that are mutually in collegiate, which are in mutual collegiation, and I hear that a new law is written, and I hope that it will also make it right, but that we have a million and 800 thousand cases a year, it's not the wrong courts. The courts have only that responsibility to solve them faster, and that is what unfortunately does not happen with us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89675	There's a final debate coming up. The first is a respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89676	Thank you, my dear. Therefore, this Law also provides for the implementation of a periodic background security check by all judges, and since it is inseparably related to the assumptions for the orderly conduct of the judicial duty. Since security enforcement is carried out in the proceedings of the appointment of judges and the law governing the implementation of security checks provides for the renewal of the security checks carried out every 5 years, that procedure shall also be laid down for judges. The report on the security review carried out shall be submitted to the President of the VSRH, and a final assessment of the existence of security barriers on the basis of the report delivered shall be carried out by a special council whose members from the order of the Judges of the VSRH shall be appointed by the General Meeting of this Court. The President of the VSRH undertakes to notify all the powers to initiate a tight procedure, so the President of the Court in which the judge is acting, then the President of the High Court, the Competent Judicial Council and the Minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary. In the event of the existence of a security obstacle, the authorised proponent of a prudential case against judges, the authorised applicants of a strict case against judges would have the possibility to initiate this procedure in relation to the strict acts of conduct of the service, business or activity incompatible with the judicial duty, to cause labour disturbances, courts which have a significant impact on the functioning of the judicial authority, and then to injure official secrets in connection with the conduct of the judicial duty and damage to the reputation of the court or judicial duties in another way. In accordance with Art. 120. The Constitution is a permanent duty. It is evident from the government's explanation that, in essence, through the post of Supreme Court President, a function has been introduced in the judiciary, I dare say, by the party commissioner. Art. 22 The Constitution stipulates that man’s freedom and personality is inviolable and that no one is to be taken away or restricted to freedom except when the law is laid down, and of which, of course, the court decides in advance. Periodic checks by all judges without reason of the introduction of such a measure in the court settlement are nevertheless constitutionally unacceptable. Analyzing the specific part I conclude, so when I talk about art. 3. Amendments and additions of the Law on Courts are nevertheless impeccable and due to the point. Four, dot. 4. says he performs other tasks, and yet he is excessively undernourished. Art. 9th, i.e. Art. 44c. Article 3 is amended and reads and says if the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia ceases to act on his duty, the DSV will be empowered by the judge who, until the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, will carry out the affairs of the judicial administration. In accordance with Art. 1 20th century 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states the DSV in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decides independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and strict responsibility of judges and presidents of courts other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and then, in turn, we can conclude that it is unconstitutional. Art. The 15th says that the judges have already passed a security check, so possible subsequent security threats are also being met and there are going to be some criminal acts. In the event of a criminal offence, the principles stemming from... the traditions and principles of predicate innocence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Art. In 38th, there is also a suspicion of unconstitution, so he says this law is planned to be published in the National Journal and enters into force on 1 January 2022, except for Article 2022. Article 5 24 to 32 of this law, which enters into force on 1 January 2023, and then in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 1(2), The 90th and 3rd centuries before the laws and regulations of the state authorities enter into force shall be published in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the Official Journal of the Republic of Croatia. The law shall enter into force at the earliest of eight days from the date of its publication, unless, for particular reasons, it is otherwise laid down by law. So the conclusion is that it's an art. The 38th proposed law still unconstitutional. I am clearly talking about the retroactivity of the act of the provisions of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89677	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89678	Thank you, Chairman. Here's another one, short, final. First of all, the Bridge will support these two laws. Not because, I don't know, we've shown some kind of change of direction because me and the chairman, not the two of us directly, but our political currents are fighting for a better Dalmatia, politely and we'll continue. But what I want to surely praise here is here I dare say for the first time since I've been here that, to see the good intention of wanting to hear someone else's voice and that certain things want to change, so regardless of whether the copyist happened, so someone suggested something, it's least important, it's important that the law as such goes. The truth is, I could both trees and stones, I think I could hit on the justice that this guy is like he is. Definitely, each individual inside of it and who has created one picture of Croatia that he has brought to 63rd place in perception, 69th place in, 63rd place in the perception of corruption has an individual's name and last name and certainly it would not be good or fair this one is somehow pointing at our minister, nor will I do so. The law and this, specifically these two proposals are good, there are things inside of them that we're going to see how time gets them out, more specifically whether they're going to get the effect or not, but in any case, the opportunity needs to be given because we're trying, we're trying to bring something that needs to be done wherever and where better. Most of the time here, somehow here, my eyes are always pricked by these witches who have caused it, normally I don't mean generally, they have their own name and last name, more precisely so far they haven't had it, I believe that this centralized system will lead them into a phase that they will have their own name, they will have their own responsibility, they will have their rewards and penalties for all that they are in the system or not doing. I believe that you will also form an unison body that will actually receive certain praises and complaints about the work of certain court witches. I also commend and define the expertise as such for all the new ones that come into the system. As well as a high criminal court and some redefinition of him here I, dear God, let him, bear certain fruits that he may become or gain a certain purpose which here we can agree that so far he had no meaning in which he should have had this. What I'd like to get your attention again is professional exams because if they really don't be something similar to a judicial exam, I think we're bringing them into a situation of considerable banalization and I'm afraid it wouldn't be good for one of us to come out of whatever side of the assembly to wash or to follow the sins of an individual who, in the case of a specific Joseph Rimac, not to show up again, and then to follow ourselves from something we don't need. I think we can prevent it from one serious, serious definition of that professional exam itself. We will see how you plan to implement this and what he will do as such except what is prescribed. And normally, here about this Supreme Court I don't want to personally see Croatia never experience another lardy that it experienced during the election of the Supreme Court president. Here I was trying to be ironic that the president of the state and the Prime Minister should be of the same obvious political option, so that this should be incorporated into a certain law. On the other hand, this constitutional court itself as such, I was also ironic when I told you that it was a wave of experts, not about the people who were politically put there where they were. However I think after this, after these two laws that our Croatia should slowly start sneaking towards something that the truth should have been long ago, but this one is well set off at some point, so here, if this is our first step, we welcome it and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89679	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's MP, the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89680	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, I would like to stress that, of course, the law on, the amendments to both laws in this form cannot be accepted because they do not make any substantial difference in relation to the state we currently have. The situation we currently have does not need to be particularly stressed as to what is the problem. The fact is that we have extremely low trust and citizens in the judiciary, but I will also say institutions in the judiciary and other institutions. So we have a situation where we need a big serious one and I'm going to say even radical reform and a twist, and we're doing some of these here dotted changes. We have here suggested that as the first point of any reform should be, there should be a change in the way we are doing the reform and that we cannot have a situation to make the National Plan of Progress, the development of the judicial system in 2021. – 2027 works later than the legal changes that should have arisen from it. It's totally, I mean, what can I say? It's absurd. And it's not like we were in such a hurry that we couldn't wait two months here, so we'd be more competent to discuss how any change would legally lead to those goals that we'd have in the national plan. So we said that our proposal for reform is based on 4 pillars. The first is the opening of justice to the public and to the profession. And that's where we put concrete suggestions on how it can be done. What is absolutely necessary immediately to do, immediately, is the issue of the public meeting of the Special Supreme Court and also the publication of judgments at all levels from the municipalities further. The second point, the second pillar that we propose to be a reform pillar, is the issue of territorial reconstruction of the judicial administration, the reduction of the number of seats, the seat of the courts and their concentration so that they can make centres of excellence for individual segments with exposures or services where we see that it is necessary and when necessary. So it doesn't have to be permanent. Third, the change in the way judges are elected and promoted, as well as the reorganisation of the State Judiciary Council. Nothing here has shown that we see the problem in both the way judges are elected and in the criteria and in the transparency of this process, which is what are the key objections. So we continue to insist on career judges and not open space to judges, that judges become actually outside of the judicial profession, they're not forbidden to do so but we're not opening up space to them. On the other hand, we also have no clear criteria to continue to advance who participates in the election and by which logic it participates in the election. We haven't even taken a step to reorganize the DSV. The strict procedure which has proved to be crucial for detecting and sanctioning those judges, which is why the judiciary is on such low borders, did not allow the stricter procedures to be public, so we did not allow the general public and citizens to encourage their information to initiate a tighter procedure and what is most important we did not professionalise part of the State Judicial Council which, in its support and administration, should be professionalised plus the professionalisation of a tight court, the court within the State Judiciary Council, which would allow for clear and better criteria of the whole tight, firm procedure. Finally, the most important improvement in the efficiency and uniformity of the trial and the case law. It did not deal with it much with the details here and presented because it was more of a matter of procedural laws, so the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution but also others, however, we must say that there is no progress yet to be seen in terms of raising concentration, concentration of the main debates and their concentration, to reduce the inflow of cases to courts by introducing alternative dispute resolution particularly in those prosecutors who are very frequent, therefore having a number of disputes. These are very often both municipal companies and local self-government units, etc., so we haven't done anything in this field. You can't call this a mini reform, this isn't a micro or nano level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89681	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of the Honored Representative Dalia Oreskovic. She's not losing her right. Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Damir Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89682	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will, given that we have a package of judicial laws, then, in the manner of the lawyers, say that I remain above all else in everything that my colleague Bosnjakovic said in the introduction that I do not repeat myself on these two bill proposals. I'll look more at some of the allegations that were brought here by colleagues and colleagues from the main opposition. The first concerns, therefore, this issue that we have actually clarified today and cleared up on the Committee on Justice itself, the question of the jurisdiction of the courts in matters of the domain of family relations. I think the proposal, I think that the word has been balanced by fellow Mandaric, that this is exactly the kind of proposal that has been balanced. So, on the one hand, there remains the key segment, which is the expertise and specialisation of these judges, and the other segment is the availability of precisely courts and the possibility that people, therefore, should be able to make that service available to people in terms of so-called family dispute resolution. However, what I want to mention here was a few allegations, I think that a colleague from the SDP who is no longer present mentioned that because of this trip from one court to the other by judges will lose his expertise, so I must admit that it was not clear to me whether it means that somewhere along the way, this expertise that judges have to execute or disappear, that part really wasn't clear to me. The other thing, no one here has mentioned but at this point there is a possibility of a remote hearing. Therefore, this very provision that exists now will enable and, in the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, has exactly the intended part, so that the digitisation of the judiciary is precisely much greater at the application of this institute, so that you will be able, for example, to hold a hearing where you will be able to, for example, from the Municipal Court, at the seat of the County Court to hold a hearing, for example, for persons located in the area of another Municipal Court. So in the future, we talked to the secretary of state that shouldn't be some big problem. As for the trust in the judiciary here on several occasions, it would be good to talk about statistics and on the matter, so trust in the judiciary to look at this percentage of people who have a low or relatively low view of the judiciary as to how many percent of these people have any or ever had any contact with the judiciary. So 55% of those people who claim that their trust in the judiciary is low or very low have never been a party in court proceedings, so the question is why is such perception and who contributes to it? I would say that such speeches as some politicians come forward here in the Croatian Parliament and generally contributes to that very perception and trust in the Croatian judiciary. As for the security checks, colleague Oreskovic is unfortunately missing. She was actually contradictory there all day long. So, on the one hand, she was saying that this is the HDZ judiciary, that it's the HDZ Supreme Court, that it's all a set-up of the HDZ apparatus, and then on the other hand it speaks in the context of security checks, and on the other hand it says that the judges of the Supreme Court are a professional person and should be supported. So now I ask the question of who will ultimately make the decision on the security check and take the final view. It will be, therefore, a special council consisting of five Supreme Court judges who, according to counterpart Oreshkovic, are professional but on the other hand says that this is all an expensive HDZ judiciary, so I am not clear and I am sorry that it is not here to explain it all together. counterpart Bencic also mentioned the problem of security checks, but has never mentioned until now whether, why is it not a problem with the security check of the pass-by judges. It's been going on for a while. Why isn't that periodical security check you're doing for the time being, other than jump judges, that is, will be conducted for all judges, so also commercial, municipal and county judges. Here you also mentioned the problem of actually questioning how many county courts I understood, so you said that 4 county courts would be enough according to some principle of expertise, or excellence if I wasn't wrong. I can't agree with that. If you look at, for example, the practice, the practice that is regularly used and often used, so when making decisions and to which it is called, it is sometimes the courts that are not these 4 that you have listed. For example, the County Court in Varazdin is one or Bjelovar are courts that are just known for their own, so the practice often referred to by judges in other courts. So, I don't think this is really a good way to go that you've made. On the other hand, there will be permanent services in other county headquarters. What's in it for you? So, the same number of employees, nothing changes except that you said it would be occasional, so now I'm asking if then these are some occasional judges who would be a little on the permit, so while there's gonna be some slow going to work pretty much everything didn't sound too expensive. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support one and the other draft of this law together with this amendment, which the Secretary of State said would accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89683	Here's what we've exhausted from the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll discuss it when the conditions are met. We'll discuss it when the conditions are met. This is how this morning we decided to move to a united debate on the items 4 and 5 of the agenda scheduled for today. These are - Final draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, second reading, P.Z. No. 208. - Final draft law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, second reading, P.Z. No. 210. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. We are discussing the final draft law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State's Attorney's Office. Amendments and additions to these two laws shall be subject to more precise arrangements for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, and shall be subject to mandatory periodic renewal of the security verification of state attorneys and shall improve the system of compulsory improvement of them. As with the amendments to the Law on Courts which we previously discussed in accordance with the legal considerations of the Constitutional Court, provisions on the procedure for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia are amended. The State Attorney's Council will only provide timely and complete applications to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Unless the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, no candidate of the National Attorney's Council of State will be called off within 8 days and re-launch the procedure for the appointment of the Attorney General. So, like in the election of the Supreme Court president. The implementation of security checks for state-level attorneys when appointed is prescribed by the Law on the State's Attorney's Board. These amendments introduce a periodic renewal of the security clearance, a security check for all deputies every five years from their entry into service. State attorneys through the ministry will apply for the renewal of the security clearance to the Security Intelligence Agency. The final decision on the existence of security obstacles will be made by a special commission appointed by the College of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia in the order of the Deputy Chief State Attorney. The main state attorney will eventually inform all authorised applicants of the strict procedure, in this case being the State Attorney's Council. The entry into force of this law for all deputy state attorneys who passed security checks more than five years ago will require the renewal of checks in order to further encourage professional training of state attorneys, we are amending the provisions on their professional training. As unsatisfactory, the prescribed training obligation is deleted at least once a year, and the dynamics of mandatory professional training of state attorneys will be regulated by a special regulation, therefore similar to that of the Law on Courts, which we discussed in the previous debate. In addition, the obligation to pass a special expert examination for state attorneys after the introduction of an electronic conduct of a national examination that will no longer contain a specific part of the examination, i.e. from 1 April of this year. The obligation to adopt a regulation on the internal order of state attorneys shall be laid down by the jurisdiction of the judicial inspection of the Ministry of Justice and of the administration and the conditions under which civil servants and civil servants may carry out tasks. We specify the conditions for directors of the state's attorney's office and it is prescribed that the directors have all the major state's attorneys with 15 or more appointed deputies and all the senior state's attorneys. In the process of recognising the right of judicial officials to compensation for a separate life from our family, we define the concept of family members, similar to these laws. When it comes to the amendment of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, this proposal aims at better organisation of labour and easier management, it proposes the separation of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb and the establishment of the Municipal State State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb to conduct before the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, the Municipal Working Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Court in Sesveda in relation to civil matters and the Municipal Criminal Attorney's Office for representation before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Court in the Councils in relation to criminal and criminal provisions. We believe that by adopting these changes, we will make further steps to improve the work of the DORH. By introducing continuous security checks on state lawyers, we want to ensure the highest standards in the conduct of the state's attorney's office and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the judicial system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89979	Here, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89980	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, with the final proposals on amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office and headquarters, you have mentioned several newspapers or improvements that will happen to these final amendments. I am particularly or personally interested, and what did you mention, therefore, except for the classical state expert exam which has been conducted in one way so far, is introduced, since 1 April of this year, a new obligation, so the passing of a special expert exam that will certainly contribute to better and more efficient work of the judicial authorities, since the officials will in some way specialize in certain topics, substances that are involved in their work, so if you can perhaps say only a little about what way it is imagined, or what is waiting for these officers and in what way will this special part of the expert examination be conducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89981	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89982	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The topic is also about previous laws. So as of April 1st, there has been an electronic state exam, so a major change in the situation so far. So far, the exam has consisted of a general part and a special part. What has proved to be a misunderstanding, so those who are in the system, and who have passed on that system two parts of the exam, will not be afraid that they have to retake those who have passed. So this is new, it goes from April 1st for those who enter the system and have not passed the current way of passing exams, and all in terms of professionalization and further training of people who work in the State's Attorney's Office and the state's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89983	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89984	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I am, third time today, opening the question of the unconstitution of the Law in that part of the publication, i.e. the conclusion that the Law is published in the National Journal, enters into force on January 1, 2022. Really confused, so here, I want to hear how you interpret, if there's any other possibility of avoiding such questionnaires that really point to unconstitutionalness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89985	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89986	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Similarly to the Law on Courts and Areas and Courts of Justice on the Legislative Committee, an amendment has been adopted that all the laws on which we are discussing today enter into force on 1 March 2022, so it may be in HS meetings that, due to constitutional pause or something, an extension of the period of planned adoption of the law, this has happened with these laws, so that on the Legislative Committee, the entry into force of March 1st or would be the 8th day of publication in the National Journal. Now it will be March 1, 2022, so everything is in accordance with the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89987	Followed by the replica of the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89988	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State, and this bill of law, in fact, changes the provision that speaks of professional training, and so far it has been mandatory one year, and now it is abolished because it will be decided to do so several times a year. What I'm curious about is how you plan to fix it with a rule book. At whose expense it will be professional training because we know that it is not free, so we expect it will be without the cost of the employees. And one more thing, given this definition of family, I'm wondering if that's in line, since it's a definition of justifying the cost of a separate life, is that consistent with the definition of other officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89989	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89990	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As far as this definition of family and family members is concerned, this is where we ran ourselves with those tax laws, meaning the financial regulations that apply and how it is taken care of, so we had special care so that there would be no misunderstandings about the right to compensation and compensation for a separate life and everything that follows so that no one would be damaged, that all the rights established were applied. And as far as this professional training is concerned, of course it will go, it will not go to the burden of officials to be perfected, the aim is to improve the system, no more than once a year, but more than once a year, because the need for the constant development of rights and different circumstances has been demonstrated, especially since we are now a member of the EU, some new things come from the directive into our legal system, it is necessary to educate people further, of course, not on their cost, but on the cost of the Ministry of Justice and Administration in these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89991	Followed by the replica of the respected MPs of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89992	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it is not clear to me why more civil servants in the State's Attorney's Office are now being imposed and the passing of a special expert exam when that special part of the state's examination was actually a special feature that they perform in the course of their work on a regular basis. What's this all about because it doesn't make any sense because it could have expanded a particular part of that state exam with some extra I don't know what's going on within their workplace. Why wasn't it going to improve their financial, financial status, spatial, digital improvements, and not to impose any obligation on them now beyond any common sense on me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89993	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89994	Thank you well-respected MPs, all of what you said in the end, so it's investing in the digitization of the system, new IT equipment, connecting you saw the e-communication system and so on. So it's our job here and our provision that this applies to people who haven't passed the boring regulations. He was as bored as I said he was, and there's no more a special part of it. The people who passed the old regulations won't take it again. And why are we doing this now? So I answered, we are facing new challenges no matter who runs the ministry or will lead or run it we are faced with the constant need to perfect people. Can't what you learned 20 or 30 years ago be as strong as it is today. So new technologies and new challenges, therefore, and our EU accession and different practices and implementation of the European Directives, come about that our employees must be educated except for us who are officials in the system in which they work. I think it's justifiable, legal, and we'll all work to improve material conditions and financial conditions when it comes to wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89995	Thank you, Secretary of State, no more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first reported is the SDP Representatives' Club, on their behalf the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the debate is united, so the debate is united, let us then, at this easier Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, basically only the organisational part is changed, which is the minimum County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, in a way that has 3 municipal state attorneys in Zagreb and 1 in Zlatar, which covers the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, and the rest is therefore the Municipal Criminal State Attorney's Office and the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb for Zagreb and Zagreb County as already organised. Of course, this second law, the State's Attorney's Law has several small but important changes or the establishment of different instruments, but let's, let's go from that fundamental question is whether, and this seems to me to be the government of the coalition year 2000, has it proved justified after 21 years to abolish the State's Attorney's Office and attach it to the State's Attorney's Office? I think the answer to that question, that not everyone here, would agree here, and after certain events and practices that we have had in the last 20 years, I am increasingly on track that those who represent the state in civil disputes should be separated from the classical prosecution that actually haunts the perpetrators of the crimes. Because it's not, it's not this rare case that you just miss the D.A.'s corridor to have a completely different, completely different state-of-the-art attorney's decision. Something that on behalf of the state, a state attorney representing the state would do if, for example, the head of local self-government did so to be punished by the State's Attorney's Department for health at least if he didn't make a diagnosis, but good. Secondly, there is a political issue in Article 1, which is this Lex Dobrinić or lex Djurdjevic or lex however you like, and that is the need for a public call to elect a top state attorney. Namely, to my direct question to the attorney general whether or not she spoke to anyone before answering a public call, she very bravely replied that she had contacted the Minister of Justice at the time. Which means she was in a privileged position rather than other candidates who also made the same call to the public but did not discuss a public call with the Minister of Justice at the time. Which means that basically the public invitation was a farce and that the current chief state attorney was elected in a contaminated procedure, not to say on a staged public call which she herself admitted. As I recall, a mayor got a criminal charge, got charged with a similar thing, then they re-elected him in the election. As far as the public call itself is concerned, our position remains the same as for the Supreme Court. Government no, the government watch out here I have now defended the government from HDZ's majority, the government should not be limited by a public invitation to propose candidates for the state's chief attorney to scan the situation well and propose the one they think is the best. The Council will make that clear, if there is a need for a meeting to ask certain questions, it may, therefore, be heard by the Committee on Justice or in some other, in some other business way. Furthermore, Article 5 before I came to the pay phone, I asked for another explanation from the secretary of state, and I am satisfied with the explanation I received. In fact, every 5 years or in transitional terms, it will now be one of those one scans, one security scan of the judicial system, because this must be applied within 60 days of SOA. So we're going to have one mass security check of judicial officials who haven't been checked in five years, so that's actually going to be what, I'm going to do a little colloquial expression, a good spy scan of the judicial and repression system in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's been unmarked since the time of Alexander Rankovic, but I'm not saying it's bad, but just so we know what's going to happen. So now the SOA will receive a security check request within the next 60 days for several hundred judicial officials, right, State Secretary and now the SOA will comb the judicial officials for the next few months. We need to be aware that this is going to happen. After that, the SOA will send its report to the attorney general or the President of the Supreme Court whose College of 5 members of the Supreme Court or Deputy State Attorney will analyse it. They will then, for those for whom their analysis does not pass the first SOA test, send it to their boss, or to the direct manager, who will then assess whether to initiate a tight procedure which will then come to the DSV or to the DOV. Did I get a good scan of what's gonna happen in the next few months? So we need to know that's what's waiting for us. I'm not sure whether the Croatian judicial and security system will withstand this earthquake without damage. It's one magnitude 4 to 5 on Richter, sure, but good to go, so I think it's one good provision that might have been, so those who aren't 5. that within 60 days, those who are not or are not in 10 years. 60 days, 5 years. within 90 days, so you're a little distracted, to dissipate this security system, but good. Here's the thing, I'm not usually prone to excessive personnel involvement of security services in political events, but as it comes to judicial officials who don't go to elections, whose mandate is permanent, then I'm ready, so we'll see if it shows that there's an abuse by the security system then the provision will change or those in the security system will change. I don't normally support what's written in the article. Seven as it's written. If I understand correctly, the right to a separate life from a family is tied up to the fact that you have a family or that you are not single or, for example, parliamentary representatives or advocates who are single if they are looking for compensation for a separate life have the right to do so, it is not because it is not a fee for mental pain because you are not with your mother or wife or children or it is an objective fee for increased life costs in two places. So it's called wrong, I'm not a supporter of it, or let it be literally prescribed, then, in the Rules of Procedure, that singles have no right to compensation for a separate life, so that they are no longer placed on, on a pillar of shame, to be entered into by family and other relationships that are not, which is no use, is not the meaning of it. As for the others, then, the other provisions of these laws that are being amended, we mentioned in the first reading that the need for security checks to be carried out and for officials appointed by parliament, either as optional or as optional, so that Parliament will then decide whether or not to refuse a security check to appoint it. This does not apply to deputies, so they are called DSV and that is, the DOV, and it is mandatory, and as for the one who appoints parliament there can be considered, but then the next story goes whether we will then also for other officials appointed by parliament to seek security clearance and how likely then the impact of this security apparatus on political decisions and political appointments is. However, those who go to elections, those who are on the first line of public and media interest each day, are still more exposed and still more viewed than those who are in the wind, and for example, the deputies of the attorney general are still in the wind to the point that they are in the same regulation on official dwellings, are not elected to the mandate but de facto for life, and no one is asking whether they should have official apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89997	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored Representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89998	I welcome Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state again. This is for us Croatian sovereigns this proposal or the final bill also I have already said a step towards the existing state and we will support it. We will support it, there are small steps, but surely they are going towards a more efficient task, far greater, far greater security of the state's attorney's office than interferences of various interests that are contrary to both the constitution and the law. It's actually a shocking fact to us that without such provisions that weren't in force at the time in the state, the very top of the state's attorney's office was being dragged by a Mason, a declared Mason. Look, it's, uh, it's probably this one and he was still boasting about it, and otherwise it probably exists in the world, but with these people he doesn't particularly boast about not in the public service. It's a catastrophic one, one knowledge that shocked everyone. I believe that, among other things, that's why you started this procedure. Security checks must be carried out when they are in the interest of national security of the Croatian people and if we all see here, colleagues and colleagues have troubled the concept of security checks. So what does that mean? What does it mean? So, what's your problem? So you first problematize objectivity, colleague Arsen Bauk said it a little balanced here, first you question the objectivity of work and professionalism, the responsibility of the security services that should do it. Well, that's one segment of the question, if anyone has these doubts, then let them ask this request to discuss it in Parliament, anywhere else. But we must have good faith. It is a good faith that those services will do their job compared to what they have done when we see the situation. As they do, he said well to fellow Habib, but now they're doing it according to the jumper this, the officials, everyone who works on the jumper cases has been checked. Either in the judiciary or the state's attorney's office, the police, not to speak. And, uh, these are certain logical security systems, obstacles to intruders not appearing there, they have all civilised democratic states of the EU or, let's not say, in America and anywhere else in their laws, it doesn't occur to anyone to dispute it. Also, what's important to say, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you must open the door to full independence of the DORH's work at all levels. If you can't stop him, we can't get this year's report on DORH's work where he's going to write, two years in a row it says you didn't give them employment, the DORH's in the bouncy department for financial, expertise, skills, etc. It is simply unacceptable for the executive authority to interfere with the operation of the DORH, not only does it not allow them to work, but it does nothing to improve their conditions. You've got to fix that. And you have excellent nomotechnical solutions if we don't, if we're not going to make living conditions for the operation of the DORH, and they're our last obstacle and our first line of defense and our last obstacle to the fight against all kinds of crime and to the protection of society. Uh, anything else might come to the conclusion that, as HS, we have to do everything, to make it easier, to make as good a job as possible, to have a hard, toiling, to have an extraordinary effort, an education, a lifelong education to our state's attorneys, all actually to the officials of our attorneys, as well as to the judiciary, because in a peaceful age it's actually the only way that as a people, as citizens, we have security. There is much to be done, we are like a country that has suffered war destruction, and here, for the last time and earthquakes and the coronary crisis, indeed, affected by different these exceptional, exceptional problems and financial problems, but we must, in some segments, have heard and pay more because as a society, we will be left to anarchy, violence, terrorism, corruption, and that none of us must afford, we must first of all stress it in any way daily, however expensive any particular services we must pay, as we must pay the Croatian military, as we must pay the Croatian police, so we must pay, care and ensure that all conditions create that they do their job well and that thieves, criminals and those who want to cross the way, those who want to pay the contrary, illegal, unethical, that they cannot be stopped. It's your job, it's our job as a Croatian representative and representative. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u89999	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90000	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Croatian MPs. I already said in the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts that these four laws in the area of justice are not actually reform laws. By adopting them, we will not achieve that the judiciary becomes more quality and effective so that such justice is the basis of the rule of law and the bearer of the fight against corruption. By adopting these draft laws, we will not achieve the ultimate goal of restoring citizens' trust in an independent, quality and effective judiciary. Contrary to the minister's claims of improving the situation in the judiciary, the real situation in the judiciary remains extremely poor. Statistics confirming improvement show that changes are slow and insufficient. It compares the situation without a critical comparison with others, showing satisfaction that we are not always the worst at all. Contrary to claims that resolving cases is speeding up, the length of court proceedings in cases of interest to the public remains excessive, and citizens of court decisions have been waiting for years, sometimes decades. Major damage claims are still being paid due to judgments being passed within a reasonable period of time, there are no reliable indicators to point out that a sufficient shift has been made towards reducing the duration of the proceedings that would meet the legitimate expectations of the citizens. Unlike the developed justice systems of the European North, more than 80% of the population has confidence in the judiciary, in Croatia about 80% of citizens do not trust the courts and judges, contrary to claims that public mistrust in the judiciary is the result of the lack of justice and the creation of justice and the real functioning of the judiciary among citizens in reality is a low public respect for the judiciary reflects the real systemic shortcomings and gaps between the results achieved by the judicial system and the need for society for adequate legal protection of citizens and legal persons. Due to inefficient justice, foreign investors are bypassing us in a large port. The capital is looking for safe and reliable countries with predictable taxes, a stable legal system that defends an effective judicial system. None of it lives in the Republic of Croatia. Neither these changes to the law will improve citizens' trust in the judiciary, nor will we become a desirable country for investors. This package of amendments that we are currently discussing is about a more precise provision on the appointment of the attorney general, the regulation of a specific way of implementing the process of restoring the fundamental security verification of state attorneys and the improvement of their mandatory professional training system, as well as the arrangements of certain issues relating to state officials employed in the State Attorney's Office. Will security checks solve all the problems in the justice system? Shouldn't the IRS be involved when it sees a disproportionate amount of property and income from state attorneys. Are we finally going to get to the selection process of an independent state attorney? I remind you, as my colleague Bauk said, in this Croatian Assembly, Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šiček said that before reporting for the main state attorney's competition, she spoke with the minister of justice. What were they talking about? I'm sure it's not about the weather. Most of the changes are covered by cosmetic changes in Article 99a. which speaks of the fundamental security checks of the deputy state attorney, as requested by the State's attorney. The article is indeterminate in the sense that, after that, if security barriers are established, we do not know what to do. In particular, the article shall provide for the delivery of reports on the security verification carried out, the responsibility for the final assessment of the existence of safety barriers and the notification of the existence of safety barriers but shall not be specified as follows. The provisions of Article 122(2), provision of Article 122(2), complements the introduction of the obligation to pass a special expert examination for officers in judicial bodies in order to verify the specific knowledge and skills necessary for the successful performance of jobs in these bodies except for officers who have passed a judicial examination. The time limit for such an examination shall be laid down, the procedure for extending the time limit in the event of justified circumstances and the penalties for the termination of the State Service for officials who do not pass a specific expert examination within the prescribed time limit shall also be laid down. According to these civil servants, with the obligation to pass a state exam and an additional examination, we are wondering why. We are not against continuous professional training, but we are against unnecessary duplication and imposition of additional tests from which it is not visible, there is no visible difference from the state exam except that someone from the Ministry of Justice and Administration will make additional profits as an interrogator. We need to be aware that the burning problem in the state's attorney's office is that it's been running around for years and a lack of personnel. Therefore, if the current quality is to be maintained in the State Attorney's Office, the existing quality must be improved and there must be a way to retain these personnel. For quality work, an appropriate cash reward must be given and technical conditions of work and the possibility of continuous professional training and of making progress because otherwise anyone who is more ambitious, more valuable, more skilled with faith in their ability because of inadequate financial, spatial and technical conditions will go to lawyers or private companies. So think a little bit about how human, spatial, financial, technical, by introducing digital technologies empower attorneyship by not even thinking about affecting the decisions of the State's Attorney's office at any time in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90001	The following is an individual debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia, respected representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90002	Thank you. Therefore, Article 2(2) of the fourth indent is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia gives the legislator the power to decide on the regulation of economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. In regulating these relations, the legislator is obliged to respect the requirements set before him by the Constitution, and in particular those arising from the rule of law principle and those safeguarding certain constitutional goods and values. That constitutional authority allows the legislator to amend and supplement the existing legal arrangements of these relations and related rights and obligations, or to edit them in different ways depending on different circumstances. In accordance with the provisions set out in Article 2(2), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Croatian Parliament or people shall decide directly, independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the law on the regulation of economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia. The legislator has the right and freedom to regulate social relations the only restrictions result therefore from the Constitution. The quality of the selection of the arrangements of individual legal institutes is not relevant legally. We have already elaborated Article 13, this proposal amending and supplementing the constitutional legal aspects of Article 5 and Article 13, so I will explain why I claim that Article 5 has been asked as well. This Article shall be added to the Law on the State's Attorneyship of a new Article 99a. which prescribes the implementation of periodic background security checks of all deputy state attorneys, and since it is inseparably related to the assumptions for the orderly conduct of the state's attorney's office. Since basic security checks are carried out in the procedures for the appointment of deputy state attorneys and the law governing the implementation of security checks requires that the security checks carried out be renewed every 5 years, the procedure is also prescribed by this law. Those procedures will be carried out in accordance with the law governing security checks unless otherwise prescribed by this law, and in particular the delivery of reports of the security check carried out, the jurisdiction to give a final assessment of the existence of security barriers and the notification of the established existence of safety barriers. The Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary shall be empowered to lay down the procedure for the submission of applications for the renewal of the security clearance. I note how the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 22. It states that man’s freedom and personality is inviolable and that no one is to be taken away or restricted to freedom except when determined by law, what is the court’s decision. The state's attorneys have already passed a security check, possibly subsequent security threats are also being met and there's going to be some kind of crime. In the event of a criminal offence, the principles stemming from the predetermined or presumption of innocence must be respected. I don't think there's any reason for a periodic check unless it's decided by the court, by the court, and not by a commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90003	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I am, on behalf of the HDZ Club, going to look briefly at these two draft laws. First of all, I would like to remind myself of the constitutional arrangement of the DOV which is an important segment, and the constitution itself says that DOV is an independent and independent body that makes decisions independently and independently. When we talk about these amendments and the additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the reasons for why these amendments are being made, then as has been said so far, that is, above all, to more precisely lay down provisions on the choice of the attorney general, and in this process, there is certainly a significant role for the DOV to call in public. Until now, or in the current law, there was no obligation or authority to receive all applications after the public call was completed, to do anything with those applications but only had an obligation to deliver them to the government in order to make its proposal. In fact, it has seen this one drawback which corrects these amendments and additions in a way that, after the entry into force of these amendments and the additions, the DOV will actually submit to the government an indication of the proposal only timely and complete applications, so it will have the authority to review all, all received applications and determine which satisfy the conditions for further procedure. The amendments also show that if the Government does not adopt its proposal within 15 days of its adoption and does not propose any candidates, it will have the authority to annul the procedure and call for a new public call within 8 days. So there wouldn't be any doubt as to how the procedure should go. What's also important, and that's a lot to talk about today, is this security check by the deputy state's attorney. A lot has been said here today during the debate, I would just point out that it's not news, we now have a check on the deputy state's attorney, but during their first appointment. Therefore, the DOV which conducts the procedure after the test procedure has been carried out must first constitute a request for a security check and wait for that security check to be carried out and not until after that appointment of the deputies. Why do we think it's good to do it periodically every 5 years? During the term of office of these officials repeat that check? Because we think there may be circumstances, because in the course of a term of office that can last 20, 30, 35, circumstances may arise changed with regard to that first check which may lead to certain different consequences. That's why we think it's good to go to a solution like this, and so all those in the system who are now not more than 5 years are going to be. have also been verified after the entry into force of this amended bill that they will be re-checked. As far as professional training is concerned, there has been a legal obligation to implement it once a year as mandatory and now that provision is lifted and amended for reasons why the regulation adopted by the minister will determine that this professional training is continuous and that it is not only once a year, which I think is good. I believe that the state's attorneys as well as the court's, as judges, should actually be perfected continuously and that this will certainly contribute to their efficiency and expertise in the work of all the tasks ahead of them. It will certainly contribute to a better judicial system in general. As for passing a special expert examination for officials, we heard something about it. The above all stems from the amendment of the Law on the State Expert Exam in the part where we said that this state expert exam no longer looks like it has been until now to take a general and special part, now it is differently arranged and therefore there is also this obligation of a special expert examination for an official. The matter itself and the procedure will be determined by the Regulation and I believe that this will be established in an appropriate way in order to actually get into the system of officers who are dealing with certain knowledge they need to carry out all the tasks ahead of them. The law also directly prescribes the adoption of a regulation on the internal order of national lawyers, as well as the content and procedure of the adoption of those regulations, making it more clear that the power of judicial inspection will be defined. In relation to the function of the Director of State Attorney's Office, the conditions for the schedule are also specified for the workplace, as well as for the judicial administration, which I think is good and I think they will therefore be appointed to all those state attorneys who count more than 15 deputies and all senior state attorneys, which I think is justified. When we talk about the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, there are no major changes. This amendment that has been proposed is indeed an organisational change in order to have as effective a system as possible, and it refers to the Zagreb GDO and I think this proposal is good because it is the GDO both the most burdened and the biggest. Here, the HDZ Club will support both of these proposals and we believe that both will still contribute to a more effective system in the state's attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90005	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90006	I thank the chairman. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office come under the circumstances when the State's chief attorney is burdened with a major affair of trying to conceal the fact that the case was simply put into the drawer, assessing then that there is no basis for further handling and continuing the reconnaissance and that there was no European prosecutor would have stayed there forever. In fact, the chief state attorney, Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, did not speak the truth about the matter, but she also lied in this assembly and in the Croatian public. However, the HDZ majority, therefore most of the party who is legally responsible for the criminal corruption, therefore the majority voted in its 2020 report. In which it happened in the drawer. Such conscious closing of the eyes in front of the obvious failures and the non-processing of the apparent illegalities here we see the reason for the mistrust both in the concrete state's attorney's office and in the institutions of this state. It should certainly be added to the fact that the state's attorney's office refused to process more than 90% of the corruption applications. This information clearly and unequivocally tells us about the insufficient determination of the state's attorneyship and the personal Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to deal with the burning problems of corruption that destroys Croatian society and is the main reason for the emigration of young generations of our citizens. Namely, we have a major state attorney who came from the civil justice department, the DORH, who is in charge of defending the financial and property interests of the Republic of Croatia, the department that was formed by joining the state's attorney's office where up to the accession of Zlata Hrvoj Šipek and worked under the leadership of one of the founders of the HDZ Peter Shala. The task of this department is to remind ourselves of the same state's attorney's office, to protect the financial interests of the state in legal disputes in which it is one of the parties to the state. One of the university professors who wanted to remain anonymous told a daily newspaper, lawyers standing in the state's attorney's office were formed to be loyal to the state and to be representatives of the state. In contrast, DORH is an independent state institution whose basic task is to prosecute and therefore civil society lawyers should not be the main state attorneys. Although that is not the only reason, the main reason is the failure to find Croatia's Šipek in criminal proceedings, especially those involving political corruption. Imagine someone who has defended the Governments of the Republic of Croatia for years because he is in charge of defending the interests of the state as he now suddenly becomes head of criminal prosecution against members of the government or the ruling party. Croatia, Šipek, has even misread the European Prosecutor's Office Regulation, not realizing that the regulation has been valid since it was adopted, so in 2017, and not since our law was passed in the European Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to talk about all these circumstances in which these amendments and additions are being adopted in order to alert again and again the need for the independence and independence of the work of the state's attorneys without affecting political interests which affect investigations and prosecutions. Because the only independent work of the State's Attorney's Office can contribute to both the determined fight against corruption and the building of trust in the institutions of this country. With these concrete changes and additions, we must also remember the affairs of membership in the Masonic camp of the then chief state attorney. Therefore, the SOA informed that the Security Verification Act and the State Attorney's Law do not provide for the obligation to carry out security checks for the Attorney General, and that the security check is carried out at the request of the other authorities, with the written consent of the verifier, and the report on the results of the security check shall be submitted to the applicant. Namely, in Art. 5. What has already been discussed in this proposal provides for a security check by the deputy state attorneys, but no security clearance by the attorney general or attorney is indicated anywhere, okay. We know that the main state attorney is elected in the assembly, but it is not clear why deputies must pass the security check, and in these changes it is not clear that this same security check should also be passed by the attorney general. Furthermore, a decision on a security obstacle shall be taken by a committee of five deputy general attorneys. Okay. And who's making a decision on the impediment to those deputies? In short, as well as in the debate on the Law on Courts, we believe that the legislator should provide for the establishment of a special office with the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia who would conduct investigative actions when there is a suspicion of the need to initiate a tight procedure against the deputy. The office could also act on the basis of complaints from citizens. The procedure itself would be based on the findings of that office initiated by a top state attorney or a state attorney. Otherwise, such a solution as we are offered, we are afraid to open up the area of arbitration because, based on the security check, the attorney general can determine that the deputies have an obstacle without any clear criteria prescribed in the law. We are concerned about the possibility, for example, of blackmailing deputies on the basis of some data from private life or something like that, and this could actually lead to an even greater degree of judicial corruption. And that is why we believe and repeat that security checks should be conducted as impartially as possible and with clear criteria. As regards these amendments and additions, we also find it unnecessary to exclude the obligation of additional education at least once a year the same as in the amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, as it is simply clear that permanent additional education is necessary to allow better monitoring and application of all European regulations, Directives and the integration of all European legislation into Croatian legislation. We will be against this law, i.e. These changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90007	The following are individual debates. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Sacic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not here either. He's losing his right. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mira Bulj. He's not here either. He's losing his right. And followed by the last individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. He's got him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's hard to discuss the state's attorney's office for a few reasons today. First of all the interest in this topic as we see it in English would be said to live something that happens. But even more so because it is an institution that could and should be very busy in this country, but largely crippled in its functioning. Politics played the most important role in this, and it is the main reason for citizens' mistrust in the DORH. Here's an example. The ex-Mercedes ex-Mercedes of Minister Gabriela Žalac have been warned for months. The media must have published hundreds of minutes-long and perfectly reasoned articles, but the DORH saw nothing controversial. Then comes the European prosecutor and arrests the former Mercedes minister, because she and her office obviously have no problem with political myopia as a DORH. Is that why the DORH or the BOOK dropped what kind of resignation even works? Did any of the rulings see the failure as a reason for the replacement of anyone in the DORH or at the BOOK? Here's the crowding of the face in the riot has a bitter taste in Croatian politics. The citizens see it, they're not stupid, so trust in the DORH falls. And then here for the pay phone come colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and the dead cold repeat that DORH is an independent institution, and the truth is this: part of the DORH certainly doesn't work independently. Part of DORH and USKOK has been disabled further in the work because they have poor working conditions from busy offices, ancient computers, a bunch of documents that are by the way should be classified and probably are by offices and by hallways. And the fact that it works in USKOK is far too small a number of investigators for the amount of work they have in Croatia. To paraphrasise an old film "it's a small country like HDZ is a criminal organisation". Are we going to have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Reda's working. Well, all right, colleagues and colleagues, maybe he's got some cheeks on you after all. I want to send a message every day to the honest deputies and deputies of the state's chief attorney who deal with the harsh reality of Sisifovsky's work under the HDZ regime, and I want them to hear it from the citizens. You're not alone! And because you're not alone, know that there will come a time when things will change, when an independent institution will not be an insult from the mouth of someone from HDZ, but the truth. Hold on! We're starting with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90009	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90010	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. You're trying to be ironic, cynical, and you're actually missing the topic of today's debate. So, you're talking all the time about the state's attorney, about some cases. Today, it is not on the agenda that the State's Attorney General's report is on the agenda, but the amendments to the Law on State's Attorney's Office. And what I was talking about, if you've already looked back on me. Yes, it is. [[Intruder Glavasevic: I did not.]] You were saying that we from HDZ are here cold dead and we're saying that she's a lawyer. Autonomous Body [[Intruder: Don't feel called, please don't.]] That's by the Constitution. [[It's not up to me.]] And if you don't know how to read it, don't read it. [[Intruder: Please do not communicate.]] behave like this [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Intruder: I may be a replica, but the injury of my colleague's Rules of Procedure did not call for an article.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90011	Please, so... You have the notice of a respected representative of Jelkovac, and you, too, dear representative. [[Intruder: I respect everything, well HDZ does not.]] It is. [[I thank you, fair enough.]] Here are your replicas. Please stop commenting. We have a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: One I write, one I remember.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90012	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask you to protect us from this kind of behavior. To come to the pay phone to bend like a bar, to make faces full of irony it is not worthy of a parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] As if you're at the bar, shame may be on you. [[I'm not ashamed, I think.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90013	Time, please, Mr. Glavasevic, don't answer to any violations of the Rules of Procedure. you respected MPs receive a warning because you have not called on any item of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90014	Thank you. Here's the damage to your sanity. When you say that the problem of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is how they leaned or did not lean with their left hand or with their right hand where the speaker might remind you of the bar, and it is not a problem that people who are not only members of the organization are convicted of corruption but also defend others in proceedings condemned [[Intruder: Time.]] for corruption, so please, that's the problem. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90015	And you get a warning because this was a pure replica. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90016	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bencic insults us HDZ representatives, we didn't defend anyone here in our testimony, nor did we insult anyone, so I just looked back on the fact that my colleague wasn't in the topic, and you fellow Bencic, you better listen to what we just said. And who is tried and how little you study is not only judged and conducted by those who are members of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90017	Well, you're getting a warning, too. Please don't comment from the bench. Replica's esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90018	Thank you. A few years ago, colleague Ivan Pernar wore a T-shirt that was written by HDZ thieves, and then I picked up a breach of the Rules of Procedure and asked the chairman to protect the HDZ from Pernar, and Vice President Reiner said he wouldn't. So you don't have this problem as long as the ratings aren't like this, your colleagues aren't gonna look back at these dogs and the caravans are coming through. But if the scale of Croatia was what you said then the equator would be the border between northern and southern Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90019	I have an answer, right? No, my colleague Bauk you are absolutely right I think I am guilty of cynicism and I am guilty of irony but if the truth hurts again it is not my problem nor my colleague Bencic, nor my colleague Bauka that is the problem of the facts of those who agree to be members and members of the criminal organisation convicted. So there's no lie told. There is no article that you can call on in our Rules of Procedure to sort of change that. And that's the subject, if the topic is the State's Attorney's Office and if this is an individual debate, it's the only topic. So, HDZ state captures, therefore, the capture of this state is the only topic when we talk about justice. It's the only topic. There is no other topic than the fact that the judiciary and the judiciary in this country are not working because HDZ is holding him by the throat like this. It's the only theme of my colleague Jelkovac. And the fact that this phone booth looks like a bar isn't my problem again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-02-0.u90020	Your time is up, and your replicas are running out. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 A report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 September to 31 December 2021. Session interrupted at 18.02 hours.
