ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u102739	Here, good morning, everyone, let's get on with our work. In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with 4 new streams. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 11th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u102922	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Jure Brkan, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u102923	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Marina Andacic Krivić, Ivica Prgomet, Hrvoje Eljuga, Matej Lozina, Andreja Ravlic, Ivica Markot, employees of the Makarska City Administration were fired just because they did not vote for the SDP mayor of Makarska Zoran Paunovic. In fact, in the past two weeks these people have been given solutions to make available by the city of Makarska, more specifically the Administrative Department for Public Needs and Social Activity. These solutions make them available within different deadlines, someone on the moon, and some up to six months at their disposal. After these deadlines, these people are out of work. For these people, Mayor Paunovic at the City Council meeting on the Big Thursday, April 14th said I quote, I have nothing against those people you listed or anyone should have anything against them, I think they're good and good and good and working people and I don't know why anyone here takes it personally, and knowing then that he's fired them. What happened? Why did these employees of the Macarque City Administration get fired? They were fired because the mayor of Makarska's SDP, Zoran Paunovic, in co-operation with the interim leaders he appointed, declared them a technological surplus. With the majority of votes in the city council, the SDP made a new decision in the structure and division of the administrative bodies that came into force on the first day of 2022, after which SDP Mayor Zoran Paunovic signed a Regulation on the internal order and mode of work of the city administration whose component and systematization of jobs in administrative bodies was signed on 4 March 2022. This act, in collaboration with the interim leaders without the evaluation of officials and subsistences of these 6 people, was declared a technological surplus. They didn't need an evaluation because the arrival of a hairline in Makarska in last year's local elections was announced by their party comrades at the local inn by a large cleanup of HDZs from local administrations. As they announced, they did. Marina Andocic Krivić worked on the jobs of senior adviser for preschool education, education and sport for 18 years and 1 month in various administrative bodies of the town of Makarska and is not a member of the HDZ. Her crime is even higher, according to the Hungarian SDP. In last year's local elections, she dared to run as deputy HDZ mayor. If she dares to oppose or be anti-candidate to the Macarian SDP, she should be punished for it, which is why she was fired. She was also fired by working colleagues with HDZ membership cards. Ivica Prgomet has been 33 years old, and in the city administration as a city courier for 30 years and has been missing for years and a half until retirement, he was fired. Also, young graduate economists Andreja Radlic and Hrvoje Eljuga were fired because they do not want anyone else who is not a SDP voter to work in the administration and who thinks differently from the SDP. City directors Matej Lozina and Ivica Markota were fired as a surplus, while some other credited SDP personnel were transferred to town planning. In order to make the hypocrites of the Hungarian SDP headed by Mayor Zoran Paunovic even bigger at last session of the city council held on May 27th, a decision was taken to raise the coefficient or raise the salary to Mayor Paunovic, his deputy, Antonija Radic Brkan, and interim leaders. To be a little picturesque, Mayor Paunovic took the bread from the table of three children of the town's director, Ivica Markota, to put cookies on his children's table. The city of Makarska as well as our homeland has lived in democracy for 32 years. It's better to say she lived. It is clear to all today that under the leadership of the SDP in Makarska there is no more democracy, no more multilaterals. Whoever dares to vote or run against the SDP will be fired. We are left to see in the future what penalties the Macarian SDP will bring for spoken words they may not like in the future. Returning to the one-party system in full celebration of 1945 unfortunately, in Makarska, he was revived in 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103017	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103018	Honorable MPs, citizens, media. I ask the question, is HDZ already stealing the next parliamentary elections, or are we going against the constitutional court by force of opportunity, with full right and justifiable next parliamentary elections whenever they are declared unconstitutional? I ask this question for reasons why Minister Malenica has shown that HDZ has no intention of correcting the number of voters according to data from the last census. According to the census, we have 3.9 million citizens, and those with the age-olds with the right to vote are even 3.7. Therefore, we need to be rightly concerned about whether a corrupt government, a power made up of a political party legally convicted of corruption, will choose non-existent phantom voters. In some constituencies, in particular in two electoral units in Slavonia, where HDZ dominates as many as 105,000 voters as the census shows there are Croatian citizens. So I'm really asking the question, who is this non-existent who is rounding up those ballots on election day? I must commend the Constitutional Court of Goran Selanca, who pointed to this problem and again called upon the Constitutional Court to intervene as it intervened back in 2011. when he pointed out to HS that there was a problem like this already at the time, in 2011 at the time. According to the election line, there was a 30 per cent deviation, 30% in the weight of one vote, and according to the law, five per cent. Since 2011 Our political authority has disobeyed the problem of this electoral territorial negativity because of course it is known to whom such electoral territorial disorder suits. I will point out that unfair elections create unfair power, and it is unfair government that harms Croatian citizens. Therefore, the issue of election units should be the primary issue or question of the vital interest of each of our Croatian citizens who believe that this state is choking him with injustice. And all these citizens should also ask our authorities to address this issue now because it is known that, in accordance with international standards, electoral legislation is not being resolved in the year ahead or in the year in which parliamentary elections are to be held. So the question is that, in such changes, we need to move on to a fair line of electoral units right now. That the issue of election units is one of the areas closely related to corruption I pointed out back in 2019. when I proposed that the reform of electoral legislation be classified as a special chapter of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Unfortunately, this authority and this government refuse it. And if the situation remains as it is now, we'll have a situation like I said we'll either be robbed or the constitutional court will be forced to declare the elections unconstitutional. In particular, it is a major paradox so much that the executive power at the level of bickering between Zoran Milanovic and this government is arguing over the reform of the electoral legislation in BiH, so I am not running away from that election legislation in BiH should be resolved and brought into order, but our government has a primary obligation and duty to resolve an electoral territorial disorder in its own country, which unfortunately is so brutally and to the detriment of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103088	Now that it is 13 and 10, we will move on to a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and later we will continue with the point. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoja, who is not, loses his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the IDS Club, no, giving up the respected representative, Lerotić, and will then speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Irena Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103089	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today in Osijek, organized by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Round Table on the subject of peer violence was held, today's presentation and here in Parliament I dedicate this important topic, the general problem of our society, which is an overpolitical and national problem. Sadly, we read from an ever - increasing number of cases of peer violence that children and young people often do not know how to deal with negative feelings but in a harsh and unacceptable way to express them toward their environment. Violence is a painful reality for children and young people whether a child commits or suffers violence or just observes it, and adult intervention in family and school is crucial in preventing peer violence. For prevention, the most important is timely and continuous education from preschool age, learning empathy and respecting diversity. Protocol on the treatment of violence between children and young people adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2014. The school's conduct in cases of peer violence has been defined, presupposed by the hasty co-operation of all those involved in the prevention, detection and repression of violence against children and young people. Today, 18. Later, many schools simply do not apply it because teachers and teachers rarely recognize peer violence, and surely there is a problem with covering it up. It is essential and crucial to combat peer violence that we understand the importance of the application of the Protocol and ultimately of the timely treatment of it. It is a sad and unacceptable fact that often the problem is recognised only after the media has come forward while despite all the legal frameworks, regulations, procedures lack professionalism in implementation. We are witnessing numerous media signs in cases of peer violence, including one that took place on May 5th at a primary school in Karlovac. Namely, this story was initiated by the father of the injured child with photographs of the youngsters from the hospital bed, in which he expressed bitterness by the school's conduct due to the lack of timely and complete information about the unloved event. Indeed, the school reported to the mother that the boy had ended up in the hospital after an event in the early afternoon, but it was said that there had been a fall at the school playground. The injuries to the head and limbs of the face and arms, however, did not match that version of what the doctors warned them about. It is not until the evening of the same day that parents learn that they have come into contact with another boy or that they are the result of possible peer violence, throwing boys upside down. Unfortunately, information is obtained not from school but from the parents of the third boy who witnessed it. A month later, there's still no official information about what happened exactly. The question arises why investigations take so long, where it's stuck, so there's still no story set, but the story has a new plot. At the e-mail addresses of media outlets dealing with this topic, the school's principal sent a letter last week asking for correction and an apology for the publication of incorrect and unverified information. She argues that following the completion of the supervision of the educational inspection and investigation of police officers in the event of injury to pupils at the sports playground, it was concluded that no elements of the crime were identified, and that the fact that the school did not cover up the event was stated, nor was it intended to do so. The same information is presented on the Council, and the class requested to transfer its letter to the joint network groups to all parents. There is a problem in which either the principal or the institution to which she calls will be found, and the problem is next. The investigation in this case isn't over today either, so it couldn't have been at the time of her denial last week. The municipal state attorney, as well as the Ministry of Education, confirm that inspections and inspection are still under way. The question arises as to what is happening, as possible, is it possible that the principal may know in advance that she will complete the procedure conducted by two independent state institutions. And this story is a defeat for the system, one who can learn what is not yet written can certainly influence what is written, cause doubt. Such actions will not restore confidence in the system and institutions, and I believe that exactly the reactions of the institutions following such unsavourable events are what will bring them down to the least possible extent. I appeal and ask that institutions do their work quickly and professionally, and that they are responsible for failures and inaction and that in this way they send a message to young people that the rules apply to everyone equally, without exceptions. Protection of children, their rights and the welfare of each child One person should be the thought of a guide at any moment, there's no room for manipulation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103163	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103164	Three years ago, I was in this same shirt. What does this shirt mean? For those of you who don't know the bloody wounds in space, the exploitation fields that want to work in the Cetina region in places where residents live, where they deal with the agriculture of this in Glavica and this battle lasted for years, here for 3 years and today, I, as a member of the commission, was involved as mayor of the city of Sinj and the environmental impact study has fallen. We have won and the people can win. And this isn't the first time and we'll keep fighting. I would like to thank the association first of all, the Association Don't give up Gredo, Mrs. Diana Jovanovic, Mark Svrlja, everyone who participated, who collected 5,000 signatures, gave thousands of objections and we fought together. I, as mayor, have meant and promised to wipe out only those exploitation fields because the Cetino area and Zagora only agree to exploit. Nothing means water to them, Cetina, nothing to them special flora and fauna just exploit as they used to do great forces in Africa. We would tribal be their slaves, and we have huge potential in this area of development. Thanks again to everyone, thank the people of Sinj, the Cetina provinces. Thank you all for helping, Professor. A Russian who gave great pain to preserve that area. We still have a few battles, but as mayor of Sinja, I'll fight for it or I won't be mayor. And if this hadn't worked, there'd have been another way. It was my promise to that people and it was done. If we see a litto is, it's all alive, the crisis is on the rise, I've brought an egg here one time, so it's making sense why the egg, we see that the egg becomes a problem for the families to buy, but I would talk here one more time and point out the huge problem of forgetting the Dalmatian burn, and now it's forgotten the county is even the representative of this committee that decided to study environmental impact regardless of what the executive body is, are these interests bound to you but that's what I'm going to say in particular. Now you'd point to certain problems. We can see it's a crisis. That's what we're talking about. We can see that energy is also gathering. We see we can't control anything. We see that the Hungarians will give us a price. We see we have problems. However, the key problem cannot be accepted that HEP has accumulated, Croatia's electricity company, which last year had 4.5 billion kuna in account, to collect the Cetinska krajina waterworks, and certainly this is Drniša, here is a colleague, Imotski, all colleagues, for 400 to 500% of electricity. Last year in the 4th month, the electricity paid for the water, the electricity cost the water, the electricity of 170,000 kuna, this, this 4th month of this year, a million kuna. It's not a profitable water company. The plumbing is a distribution company, and I think I have to point out here once more, and the time of the alka is coming, we'll be waiting for you. I asked Minister Coric to see me, asked Andrej Plenkovic here for the problem. Now they've picked up the owners for their caterers, their entrepreneurs cost them 3 times 4 electricity, and now I'd pick up double water. And I won't. Why would HEP have all the profits? For what? Because the problem is gas in Zagreb. So what's wrong with that poor woman in Zagora what the gas has accumulated in Zagreb is that we gas, gas problems solve down, we poor people. Well, only the Cetina landscape and this Drinish area, our Knin region proud when we arrive on Storm Day and in Sinjska Alka, so only those who give hydropower. I repeat, Cetina gives 40% of its hydropower more than Krško's nuclear power to Croatia. More. So what did he give us back? Let him say how much it's returned. I call upon you once again the age of the alka, now I am busy with these battles, come to the assembly as far as I can, come all, but this price of the people will not be paid. In ways we have, the only way we can do the red wallpaper on Kosinjac or Rudi di are and Split feeds from these springs, can red wallpaper and that Andrej Plenkovic closes, we will welcome him with the solemn electricity that the Split hinterland, the omisic hinterland, will come to water, but the people of Sinj and the Cetina region and the Dalmatian mountain will not pay you for it, your profits and Your losses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103239	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative, William Matula, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103240	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatian radio television lost another court dispute against Croatian journalistic society president Hrvoje Zovka within months of another dispute. Once again, Zovka must be returned to the workplace by a first-degree verdict, at the Municipal Labour Court in Zagreb 31.5. Hrvoje Zovko proved that the resignation he received was illegal. So, the judge in the verdict says this, it is up to the prosecutor, HRT, to return Prosecutor Hrvojo Zovka to work as editor of the co-ordinator within 15 days. This multiple judicial harassment of a prominent journalist and his family has been going on for four years. Recently, the County Court in Zadar has rightly ruled that the statements made by the president of the Croatian Journalist Society of Hrvoja Zovka in public on the existence of censorship on HRT are not disputed or untrue that, in particular, they have not been severely injured by the honour and reputation of HRT. Is he back at work? No, I don't. However, the new head of HRT, Robert Schweb, to his predecessor and former resident of Remetinac, has kept Kazimir Bačić's place of work all the time and has not filed a complaint against him for damage to his reputation and honor, however, Bačić proposed with Periš as a witness at a trial in Zadar in a case against Zovka. It's inconceivable. And that's that new credible HRT. So the court now again ruled in Zagreb that the charges against Zodka were false. He reiterated these false accusations at the Parliament's Information Committee in front of all of us the new director Robert Schweb. He boasted that they dropped all the blind charges other than the charges against the Zodka who got fired because of a physical attack on a disabled person, and that's a notorious lie. That accusation in the proceedings was also denied by the alleged victim. Now, in these next two minutes, I want to say something else about how the new management headed by the Chief Director of Sweden put forward a public debate on the proposal for a new contract between the HRT and the Government for the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2017. The new five-year contract should establish the public role and programme obligations of the public media service and the amount and export of funds for their financing. However, the document released by HRT in public debate proposes to reduce the obligation of the share of information emissions on all Croatian Radio stations at both national and regional level and on the 1st and 2nd Croatian Television Programme. The biggest reduction on the national-level radio channel would take place on the 2nd Croatian Radio Programme, which would reduce the mandatory share of information content from 10% to only 3%. Large changes are also on local radio stations that are part of HRT, Radio Osijek, Radio Sljeme, Radio Pula, Radio Rijeka, etc. So HRT encourages false journalism of those false reports that are actually secretly funded, sponsored, sponsored content, and the space for right journalism is clearly reducing it dramatically. The Croatian Journalist Society and the Croatian Journalists' Union are therefore organising a trial or round table as part of a public debate on the proposal for this contract, which will be held on 7 June and in an open conversation, will be held at the Press House, it will be discussed why the contract, why with the government, what contract, how promising and how public control of the implementation of the basic principles of public service laid down by the law for HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103241	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u103436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, over the past year we have skipped 8 countries from 27 to 19 seats among EU members for the use of funds. We've learned all this, and we're still finding out in this debate today. We are better said than Spain, Italy, Slovakia, Romania, Belgium, Denmark, Great Britain, Luxembourg and Austria. We are talking about this last year while Britain was still in the EU and we are on average in the EU. The Minister told us here today. But we still need to know that everything is not so good. To start with, let's just look at the construction sector where some estimates show that more than 20,000 workers are missing, and if we include in the range of jobs and renovations that are not going but simply standing in place, it's simply clear that it's completely untrue. Book orders from construction firms are filled for the next two years. It's really not clear with which companies, with whom Minister Paladin's construction operation intends to speed up the reconstruction process. Maybe we can draw money, but the question is who's gonna roll up their sleeves and do all these jobs so one of those old, old song says we're just gonna change the text a little bit, the ministers on the mixer, the prime minister's rolling wire, so let's live the work. A lot of songs, who sings evil don't think, but who thinks isn't up to the song. Our hospitals are still sold out. The total number of patients on the checklists is greater than 260,000. The first review continues to hold an average of 4 months. At first diagnostic checkup about six months. On the magnetic resonance of the brain is waiting 427 days. Same spinal examination 310, UZV breast for 200 days, colinoscopy about 100. Recorder is an EKG Holter, one of the simplest things in medicine you will wait 300 days for in Croatia. On all this wonderful data Minister Beroš now wants to burden the health system with the new 3 million preventive health checks a year. Here's one of my problems. A young Croatian singer, Miss Domenika, announced her concert in Arena for November 2030. I'd buy a ticket right now, there's a girl with great songs, but I'm afraid my concert date doesn't match my first medical appointment. The next thing I'm going to talk about is the fact that we in the Homeland Movement have launched an initiative to take away all those working against Croatia's interests Croatian citizenship. Obviously, we were well guessed by reactions from eastern neighbours, their media and coalition partners here in Croatia. To them it's unnatural, incomprehensible and scandalous we understand them. To work against Croatia's interests, to support the accusations against Croatian wartime pilots, to implore those who went to Croatian freedom with a rifle, but at the same time to be at the man's man's man's man's man's man's man's man's man's mantle, and at the same time to hold three fingers, it's perfectly normal for them. And for the end of the freshest news, the storm followed by a strong fight yesterday evening hit Croatia's Zagorje, the cities of Oroslavlje and Klanjec, the municipalities of Kumrovec and Zagorska villages the damage to crops and vineyards is huge. She arrived this morning, and Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic made a promise to the prime minister that assistance would be quick and advertising. Everyone asked, and where is the anti-urban defense, to remind you of the views of the ruling, the issue of defense against fighting is not just agricultural, the state spends the money of all taxpayers on something that has no scientific basis, there is no evidence of the success and cost-effectiveness of the anti-urban defense. The fight is only one of the weather disasters, and the damage to agriculture is caused by the increasing incidence of droughts, colds and floods. That's their explanation. This is why there is no anti-urban defense, which is why in the past year, a fight in the area of Posjatina caused the damage of 174 million kuna, and the damage of these fights, which in the distance of only seven days, hit the north of Croatia and Banovina, can only be imagined with horror. And where are the droughts and floods? And that's settled, so we have a 2030 Agriculture Strategy saying that by that 2030, the percentage of agricultural areas under the irrigation and draining system will be 8%, ladies and gentlemen 8%. Well, my dear Zagorci, the Međimurci and others as to the defense against the fight in the coming years, here's one effective protection, one beautiful crown and a picture of the Mother of God, so pray kindly to God to help you because HDZ certainly doesn't budge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113811	We continue with the agenda, firstly: - Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021 is based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 14th session held on 24 October 2014. The debate was conducted by the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Regional Development, Honored Natasa Tramišak Excuse me, so here's your first request for a break, dear colleague of the Grmoys, here you go. [[We've got a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113812	Thank you. In a country where the director of the agency dealing with European SAFU funds has been arrested, we are here discussing what has been done and probably the minister will say what is planned to be done. We've got a 24 billion envelope coming up. And you know what those respected SAFU ministers are telling me who's been decapitated because the agency's director has been arrested? I have been informed that people are employed without competitions or events, people who know nothing at all or have ever worked with European funds are employed, and when our young people who have responded to these competitions have sought insight into competitions, do you know who is employed by SAFU, people who have been tested for the question of how in the word, they have placed an icon in the text the one for cursive and not for boldness. People who didn't even know how to answer the question of what is part of the SAFU's work and who will control these competitions and these big envelopes. Are you at all aware of what is happening in SAFU, who is employed there and whether these people with such skills will be able to carry out this job that is so important to Croatia? Every kuna is important to us. Are we going to have new illegalities, are we going to have new irregularities, is someone from SAFU going to be in custody again? And what are you doing about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113813	Approved recess. The next break honours Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113814	Thank you. We're going to ask a question here, so on behalf of the HSS and the RF, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to ask why the EU funds are actually serving. EU funds should serve cohesion and convergence. That doesn't seem to be happening. We live in Europe two speeds where Croatia is lagging behind all possible indicators, so convergence and cohesion should happen, but we are looking at emigration from the periphery to the center, shutting down production on the periphery, looking at an absolutely unfavourable economic structure and one of the lowest employment rates in Croatia on the periphery. In order for convergence and EU cohesion to occur, it should be a fiscal union that will probably never be. The EU trade deficit is around 60 billion kuna. '20. the year deficit means export amounting to over 64 billion kuna, 16% more than in the period from 2020, means '21. compared to the '20s. What I'm going to ask here as a question is also related, because we have an opportunity here to talk to the minister anyway, is about a controversial investment programme in the community that is returning again, although it is therefore thrown out because of legitimate criticism where you will again be able to enable billions of kuna from the budget, even though the church through the Vatican Treaties and non-transparently through the budget, by some estimates it draws more than one billion kunas annually, you are re-launching a programme of investment in the community where out of 58 million kuna in the previous programme, 53 million kunas were given to parishes and that in a completely non-transparent competition, not to say that these were projects of very dubious quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113815	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The first is the esteemed Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113816	The Honorable chairman, fellow Peovic is untrue, insults the Catholic Church by saying it draws more than billions of kunas annually, does not report bills and thus wants to clear Croatia's identity, on the Catholic faith, on the Catholic Church as an institution that has just saved the Croatian people through the tumultuous centuries of its past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113817	I agree with your argument, but you used this for a replica, so you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113818	Comrade Peovic can't see when millions of kunas are given to associations of grandmothers and frogs, and it's extremely difficult when it's given to the Catholic Church. And he can't see when the Catholic Church, for example. through Caritas and similar activities, it helps those in need. So this is about one exception and I'm going to say the key to hate and it can't be hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113819	Okay. And you used it as a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Marco Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113820	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to further explain the usefulness of the European funds for the Republic of Croatia. This funds of 25 billion euros for the future did not fall from the sky. For six years, the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Yesterday we also had a Vice-President of the European Commission here in Zagreb who brought a report that we are entering the euro zone 1.1 next year, but he also said that Croatia is one of the best to use the funds from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and that we can expect 700m euros in payments to the Croatian budget in 2 weeks. Therefore, if there were any structural problem in fund management in Croatia, the Commission would not have stopped us, and if EU funds were used for convergence, that is enough statistics not only us. So, firstly, the European Commission made it clear that Croatia no longer has macro-economic imbalances. We've grown 7% in the last quarter of this year. Credit agencies are assessing us positively. We have fought for 25 billion euros that we have used and during this period 12 billion kunas have gone to support and rescue 800,000 jobs. We have 1.6 million employees, 68%, never lower unemployment. The growth of the minimum wage is the success of this government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, which we will continue to show in this debate that European funds were also the key to this result and convergence that we have provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113821	You've been granted a break, too. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Honor Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113822	238nd fellow Pavic no, it did not fall from the sky 25 billion euros. We received them because we are one of the most underdeveloped countries in the European Union. When you talk about employment, you will never provide information about the highest unemployment rate in Europe that we have. Don't talk about 1.6 million people who are employed. We have almost a million kunas, millions of people who are workable, unemployed. Which country can advance What million people stand at home and don't work? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113823	And you get a warning because you used this as a replica. The violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113824	The esteemed person was injured in Article 238. I know colleagues, Peovic, that you think it does not fall from the sky, but Croatia has fought. But I already explained it once. The government of Zoran Milanovic lost a billion euros. She could've won that fight. The government of Andrej Plenkovic received 25 billion euros, we fought for them. This is not a follow-up, and yesterday you received data on unemployment of 6.1% of unemployment in Croatia, 6.2% of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113825	Time. And you get a warning, because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like a reminder if you could? So Marko persistently reiterates this thesis that Milanovic's government has lost about a billion euros. [[/Stain Sanader: You got it.]] Marco, I haven't done it yet, but now I have to say it's misinformation. So in the rules when it was a story of crisis assistance, it was written that it refers to countries that joined the EU by 2013. We entered in 2013 and there is no dispute at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113827	Here's how you asked yourself you have the right to a replica, or you have the right to a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113828	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. Well, Professor, that's exactly what you didn't manage to write differently, not in 2013. You could've fought it. Only Croatia entered 2013 and lost 10%. Croatian entrepreneurs could have had 10% up, a billion euros up there that you in the European Councils and in the negotiations responded to that. And I checked in Brussels, there was no reaction from Croatia to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113829	Okay. And you get a warning. Next stop, the respected representative, Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113830	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the FOCUS Club and the independent representatives to point out the following. The previous period and I'll bet and the next one will be one big missed chance. Unfortunately, we haven't implemented many projects. Maybe that's where the money came in, and we ended up putting a lot of it back. What's even more interesting is that your data on how much money we've had to pay back isn't even the best transparency, and what might be your biggest shame, and already a great shame, we've got the money to help people in Petrinja, Sisak, in Clay to rebuild their homes. And now we have a situation where the house that got the red sticker is put on yellow. I guess later on, just because we're short of both workers and what's lacking in ability in the administration, we'll probably put people back into the already damaged facilities, which is what's the biggest shame. Our companies like Croatian Waters get the upper hand because they cannot meet the agglomerations, they cannot, of course, meet their obligations. We have public suppliers like Via Zagreb who have grown and grown for years and unfortunately has not drawn a single kuna from the EU funds. So we're talking about seven, eight years, not talking about the period before we did absolutely nothing. Many people could get better conditions for life, better infrastructure, anything could have been far better and more meaningful. And in the end, we'll see at the end of this period how capable we are. And a proposal for employees in Croatia, we have a million people in the administration, and about 800,000 people in the private sector. I wonder who will feed us in the future, given that almost 400 thousand people have left Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113831	Approved recess to you too. Following is a request for a break from the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113832	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club so that we can once again warn about the problems we have when we talk about the withdrawal of funds from European funds. We will listen here today about the reports, we must all know that so far we have withdrawn from the last financial envelope only 65% of the funds, let us on the side how much we agreed, the more important item is how much money we pulled into Croatia. When we talk about the Recovery and Resistance Fund, we can hear certain boasts, but it should also be clear that a recent competition has been cancelled two days before entrepreneurs are, or newly established, start-ups until 5.g. The age should call. When we talk about the Solidarity Fund, we're one of the few states if not the only one that was to spend within a year, and we're looking for an extension, we should have spent until mid-June of this year, we're looking for an extension by one year until mid-June next year, so far we've spent only 4%, just 4% of the 750 million euros we have available. Unfortunately, I'm also afraid of what other colleagues and colleagues have warned about, if we hadn't learned lessons from the last financial envelope, if we hadn't prepared ourselves well enough and quality enough to spend these funds, and not only had this contest been cancelled, we had a problem and recently until May 20th, there was a competition where 350 people entrepreneurs applied to, in just one second, di we also have some problems and such problems would arise and in the future because the system we didn't prepare and we didn't adjust it for this envelope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113833	Approved recess to you too. Next is a break of honour, a request for a break from respected MPs Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113834	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Today, when we discuss the use of European structural and investment funds and EU assistance programmes for the first 6 months of last year, we see from the data that we have only made 11 billion available. But as we discuss here today, citizens from the Zagorje area mourn, weep and collect damages on property and on agricultural crops after yesterday's fight, and citizens from the northern part of Croatia who took on similar proportions last week have not yet accumulated, and respected colleagues and colleagues, this disaster can be said freely in the rank of the earthquake. Unfortunately, we can also say that large material damages could have been prevented from being scheduled by the decision-making system and today's appearance of the minister and her sweet-talking statement that everything will still be fine, and unfortunately, since the rest of Croatia's defence against fighting can only fear that this disaster will not happen to them, too. And it is right under the rod of the Minister of Agriculture that so far the anti-urban defence system has been put out of force, which has shown a lack of understanding towards farmers, according to their crops and towards all citizens. I repeat, this disaster and major material damage could have been prevented from failing to schedule the decision-making system and the financing system. Therefore, if the Republic of Croatia considers that the damage to crops, homes and other assets are not expensive, but it is expensive for them to find a model of funding through EU funds, given that we have much to do with the implementation of the anti-building defence amounting to several million kunas a year, which is significantly less than it is damage, I suggest that the rapporteur present here be included in the alocation, so let his citizens... to secure European money, but to make sure we make better use of it than that money we got to rebuild from the earthquake. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113835	Next request for a break, respected representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113836	Thank you, Chairman. So, on behalf of the Club of Representatives For a fair Croatia, I am also looking for a break of at least 10 minutes, so I think that we are extremely important about this topic when it comes to problems in the Croatian village, so the Croatian village has been looking forward to the application of the rural development programme with great impatience and how it has started, of course primarily to the benefits, to whom the great companies, large companies, large systems that were allowed to withdraw 5m euros immediately, and that for 3 projects in a series, Croatian farmers and small OPGs never get their chance, so the contract period for the first seven years still goes away, and I still don't know from that area, farmers who have managed to diversify their production and thus the money, this money enlarges what they are doing. Unfortunately, the Croatian village is not the way our prime minister sees it, it was in Slavonia these days, so he talked about how Slavonia got a new swing from the rural development programme, but that's not true. When I come to Slavonia, I see desert villages, I see empty houses, I see abandoned hearths, and then I wonder where these people are, these people have gone with their belly after bread, and most of all to the EU member states, the same countries that have the same resources that our farmers have at their disposal. What is the problem, then, with which is the narrow throat for the Croatian village and for the Croatian farmer and for our worker to get that money? I would say our administration, our institutions, and our Ministry of Agriculture. The concrete evidence is that farmers had to go to the constitutional court and seek their right to appeal in order to react to certain irregularities in the event of the sharing of money from European funds, it is absolutely inadmissible and a great shame of Croatian institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113837	We have a request for a break from the respected Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113838	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. Today we have a very interesting topic to discuss, it is good that the Minister is with us and it is good to discuss the subject. In fact, the paper suffers a lot of things, we can write on paper, we can make promises, but then we come to reality. Imagine the reality where we live where we say that money isn't a problem, that there's money, but that we're not able to spend it. This is what is frightening, and that is what we talk about when we talk about the funds that are paid in connection with the reconstruction in the City of Zagreb and the two counties, respectively, in the area of Banovina and Banovina. These are the funds that, when it comes to the City of Zagreb and to be clear immediately from these resources, could only go to the restoration of public infrastructure and public purpose buildings that were paid to the account of the Republic of Zagreb budget at the end of 2020, and the area of Banovina and Banovina area in '21. For years, these are the funds we have on the account, they're not some imaginary means, they're not the figures they write in the papers, they're the number that really exists, and we're boasting that we didn't spend but what we got, we got a one-year delay. My colleagues and colleagues from this assembly, if I didn't say it 10 times, then I didn't say it once, please take it seriously, let's not get into a situation where we're going to have to get those funds back. But the way things are going, I repeat, who knows which time I'm going to do it again, we're going to end up paying back because we're not going to make it happen because we're not going to have anyone to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113839	Here you go, dear minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113840	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, here I also thank you for introducing the questions you asked me through this half-year report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes from 1 January to 30 June 2021. I will try to give comprehensive answers to some of your questions as well as your comments. Therefore, today's report on the use of ESI funds in the Republic of Croatia half-year for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021, which includes the state of application of operational programmes but for the period 2014-2020 and competitiveness and cohesion, operational programme of effective human potential, maritime programme, fisheries and rural development. It also contains basic information on the new financial perspective, information on the assistance programme, on recovery, cohesion and European areas, etc. REACT-EU or the funds allocated to us from the new generation instrument. First of all, we will point out and remind ourselves that 10.7 billion euros were available to us in the period 2014-2020, and that we have at our disposal at the source of allocation with REACT-EU funds until the end of 2023, 12.09 billion euros. The report under discussion today covers a period of one year. As mentioned in that period, 12.93 billion euros were agreed. A little more than 6 billion euros and 57.16% of the funds were paid, and more than 5 billion euros and 47.7% of the allocations were confirmed to the European Commission. However, when compared to today's situation, we see significant progress in the withdrawal and use of European funds, and by June this year, we are now 57% paid to more than 71 almost 72% and more than 7.6 billion euros paid to users and certified to the European Commission by more than 58% and over 6.25 billion euros respectively. So that's the condition of today. However, when compared to this report, there is an improvement of more than 14% in consumer pay and more than 12% in certification to the European Commission. So it gives us the right to say that we are recording significant shifts. What is most important here pointed out, everything depends on the users themselves free of charge as much as on the management and control system itself. Therefore, projects must first be implemented and implemented by those who have signed contracts as beneficiaries of the grant of grants in order to be able to pass through the verification and control system and receive payments and ultimately to be able to verify those funds to the European Commission. So it's a long process, one long way, but it says that Croatia has managed to acquire certain knowledge, that we have established an institutional framework and that we are moving with good foundations into a new financial perspective. What is important to mention is that currently at the Ministry of Regional Development, a statement on the European Commission's certification of more than 3 billion kuna is being prepared and we will surely be over 60% of the certified funds to the European Commission by July this year. Also, according to information provided by the European Commission or the source of Cohesion Data during 2020, we were among 20 of the, among the 28 EU countries in 27 places. In the last year, we have skipped an additional 9 countries and we are in 19 places and are better currently than Spain, Italy, Slovakia, Romania, Belgium, Denmark, Great Britain, Luxembourg and Austria. We are on the EU average on the use of funds, and this is data on the European Commission's website for the period until 31 December 2021, and recent data, as I mentioned, are saying that we are still making progress. I will certainly also warn what the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds and for the last months and a year is about to warn users who have been allocated funds, especially those who have large strategic projects that have agreed more than 22 billion kunas, which are still under way that they have to dynamic their activities and that projects can be implemented as soon as possible so that we can withdraw the funds. So, except for all of us in the system... Controls and management bodies for the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion The Ministry of Regional Development, SAFU and HAMAG BICRO, which are our largest bodies to the Environment and Croatian Waters, therefore we depend on both users and their both administrative and fiscal capacities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in order to reach that point during 2021 and during the period of submission of this report, the Ministry of Regional Development allocated a billion and 100 million kunas to local and regional levels and to all their institutions to help co-finance the implementation of European projects. Therefore, all efforts have been made to facilitate and speed up the implementation and completion of their projects. In addition, when I mention the new mechanism and the REACT-EU instrument in May last year, an invitation was called, specifically to strengthen the competitiveness of the investment firms in digital and green transition, to refer to the entire manufacturing industry of the manufacturing sector and here with the aim of correcting and correcting some of the injustices that were made in the period 2014-2020 in order to target more European funds towards the real sector, i.e. specifically to entrepreneurs and manufacturing industries in the Republic of Croatia, it was agreed last year on more than a billion kunas in the manufacturing industry and these projects are precisely under way of realisation. In addition, I will take a brief look at the completion of the programming process for the 2021-2027 period, as we all know, and we are now in the middle of 2022. The European Commission has not yet completed its approval procedures for Member States' operational programmes, it has begun with the signing of partnership agreements. We're in that final stage. During yesterday's meeting in Luxembourg, the Ministers of Cohesion also received positive information that we have a few open issues for the European Social Fund where the managing body is the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System and, after answering certain questions related to the European Social Fund, new operational programmes worth more than 9.2 billion euros will soon enter its approval phase. Therefore, the final and mature drafts of the programme were sent during April, before that since 30 June 2021. They have been intensive communication with the European Commission. What is important to mention in the new programming period for these 9.2 billion euros that the architecture of the programme in the Republic of Croatia is now put into three operational programmes of cohesion policy, although here the report, which the Ministry of Regional Affairs as a coordination body includes other programmes such as the European Agricultural Fund and the Rural Development Fund, is what we have in the management of cohesion policy programmes, operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion will be a new integrated territorial programme in the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Social Fund in the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. All issues related to agricultural policy and the European Social Fund are currently at the Ministry of Agriculture, they are in charge of drawing up a strategic document and all issues must be referred to them on the possibility of funding measures and projects from these sources. When we talk about these cohesion policy funds, I will further mention that the Ministry of Regional Development has started since November 2021. one participatory approach we have included more than 800 stakeholders in the design of the programmes themselves and more than 90 institutions. Among these institutions were representatives of both the representatives and the academic community, were representatives of all ministries, all the resolutions, regional authorities, were also representatives of the civil sector so that we could say that we included a really wide range of all those stakeholders who could appear as potential beneficiaries of the grants. Immediately after the completion of the first draft operational programmes, so at the end of June 2021. they were published on the pages of the Structural Funds. Since the end of June last year, it has been possible to monitor certain changes that have taken place by funds. In addition, more than 10 different public presentations and presentations were held, or a conference on the programmes themselves, where we referred to the basic content of the programme and where they can see in detail all information to the general public. In addition, when we were able to agree with the European Commission on these mature programming plans in April, then national procedures and previous consultations were launched, which ended on June 1st, on which we received 63 comments, which will soon be answered, and in addition, all those procedures under the Environmental Protection Act and strategic environmental impact assessment were launched, so that we are all planning to have these procedures completed in June and then after finally resolving these several issues with the European Commission to obtain a signed partnership agreement and approved new operational programmes, all for the purpose of moving forward as soon as possible with the discussion of the first calls and to get started with the implementation of the programme as soon as possible. We know that we still have some challenges in ending this previous financial perspective in 2014-2020, we know that it has been inherited from us, that operational programmes have been developed, that, during the implementation of the period, different solutions have been tried to help respond to all the needs that we have had during the calls themselves. We are now entering a new period with new operational programmes that are in line with all bodies, with the European Commission we have a new territorial approach, meaning, in accordance with all the rules of cohesion policy, a new integrated territorial programme of billions and a half of kuna intended for all areas of Croatia that are less developed, we are talking about industrial transition plans of more than 506m euros, for Panon Croatia, North Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia, we are talking about increasing the location for ITU cities, equality in the territorial approach that we will not have just eight ITU cities, but every city that is also the headquarters of the county will get the opportunity to use its own mechanism to finance its strategic projects. In addition, we also have a special approach to islands, so according to the Law on Regional Development and the Law on the Islands of 150m euros in the new programme will be intended only for the development of capital projects on the islands. Therefore, this does not exclude all other investments from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, which also received its territorial dimension and component, and in all policy objectives and in all priority areas special funds for assisted and mountainous areas have been allocated. So we are fully apart from the European regulation which is strictly in place the structures of the operational programmes are prescribed and the patterns themselves, the intervention codes are also prescribed that we must apply, but we have succeeded together with the European Commission to switch this over with national legislation or fully what we need to take care of, and this is a uniform regional development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, what you would like to point out here and you mentioned several times about the body’s capacity itself, in the control management system are proposed certain simplifications, a reduction of level 2 intermediate bodies for a new period precisely because we know that we have potential problems in the work of 2 bodies, intermediate bodies of level 2 Croatian Waters and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and the Ministry of Regional Development of Additional Control is working on all payments from those two bodies. During this year, we will do the highest number of controls so that we can enter the new period more ready and that we can verify as much resources as possible from the old period according to the European Commission. So, the new control management system is proposed in a consolidated and simpler form where we will divide the bodies that will control the users, I am talking now about the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and integrated territorial programme, so the one that carries the biggest envelope and where the biggest focus of infrastructure investments is, will be SAFO for public procurement obligations, so public authorities and public institutions that have so far spent more than 4000 certificates and control of European funds, more than 36 billion kuna was at the Central Agency for Finance and Contracting and those not bonds of the Public Procurement Act so our entrepreneurs will be in the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, so the HAMAG-BICRO. This is an important step in simplifying the system itself, the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency is exactly that it has started new jobs, 99 people should be employed by the end of this year new ones, they have opened a tender for 71 people and currently employs a new 49 people. We need to ask about concrete comments about what is happening in the competitions, which, who are all employees, what are the professional arrangements, what are the previous work experience, it actually depends on the Central Agency itself. As Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, I cannot ask that, nor can I enter into concrete employment by the Central Agency except that we give them the consent to continue to strengthen their institutional capacities. We expect that the SAFU will continue to have to strengthen its capacities. We are also in the end of the competition for Director SAFU, I hope that we will get it through this month, the competition has been repeated three times also it is true and important for the highlighted reason why we want to get a real person who can show up except that he meets the formal conditions of the competition, therefore adequate and adequate professional calling, except that he also knows the methodology and structure of the management of EU funds, and we have had more than 9 candidates in this last competition, a number of people have shown relevant knowledge, and I believe that we will succeed and end it. I can't comment on it any further. Moreover, when you have asked me about the damages that have taken place due to the stormy weather, again on the European Agricultural Fund or Rural Development Programme, measure 5 provides certain answers to these issues, but for what will be in the new perspective and new funds from the European Agricultural Fund is indeed responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture and so that they can provide more relevant information on this direction and how to prevent such catastrophic damages from happening on agricultural land, on crops and on other economic facilities, here we thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113841	Here we have a few replicas, the first respected Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113842	Thank you very much, dear minister, dear vice president of the assembly. When we look at the total figures, Croatia is in plus 56 billion kuna, when we add up these 700 million euros we expect over a few weeks for NPOO we will be in plus almost 60 billion euros. The European funds change Croatia, but that it is not only desert billions that people can't feel, can't see, we will also see through the opening of the Pelješko bridge believe in July, and my question to you is to try to get a little closer to what European funds mean for citizens, you come from Osijek, from Slavonia, meaning for the city of Osijek, for Slavonia, which means for assisted areas and how this convergence of European funds' role is to balance or to come at the rate of development of the EU average, we are now at 70% of GDP, helping in the convergence and better life of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113843	Your Honor, I thank you for this comment and question. What I can personally say is that indeed at every step, and now I am witnessing as regional development minister that we are opening a number of projects funded from EU funds throughout the Republic of Croatia, I would say territorially uniformly from the south to the north or east. We had opportunities to see recently and more than 500 kindergartens were built in the Republic of Croatia with the help of co-financing from EU funds. This is indeed one significant one, and I believe that you will all agree here in the assembly shift and approach to demographic revitalization from adequate preschool education to adequate care for children. In addition, we have witnessed a number of built entrepreneurship zones and business incubators that actually show their function very quickly in the first year, according to the information we have, more than 80% are filled with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so our startups. And the forecasts are, we also have some data from the World Bank that GDP will only grow on the basis of fund inputs in a new period of 3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113844	Time. The next replica of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113845	Dear Minister, during this period, it is obvious that Croatia is finally taking more from EU funds than it is paying even though I must stress here that Croatia, apart from receiving money from European funds, is paying membership fees, giving free labour and buying European products, should still be seen to be in some balance. Here you'd mention one problem that's obvious, and it's not spoken of. To the most extent, investment means that when we get EU funding to the greatest extent that we invest these funds in infrastructure, infrastructure needs some kind of care, or it costs later. All the physibilities of studies that are done mostly do not care about the cost and infrastructure that will later remain a user who has withdrawn European funds and are most often huge, huge burdens on local self-government budgets and regional self-government, do you think about, are you working on this problem and do you have any solution?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113846	Dear Representative, thank you for this comment, therefore, that exactly the feasibility studies that are being carried out and that have been preceded by applications and applications to some of the competitions must provide answers to the question of sustainability of the projects themselves, and all the infrastructures produced through European funds, 5 years after the completion of the implementation of the project itself. Therefore, users themselves need to realistically assess the need for a given infrastructure for which the grant is sought and how this infrastructure will function in the future and how much it will generate for them. Unfortunately, we also have examples of projects where the assessment of the users themselves was not good, and they will have to bear the burden of maintaining the infrastructure. What is the greatest advice to all is just to make real estimates, I think we now have this experience from the 2014-2020 period, that we have seen that we can't go on 10 times as much as we have our own capacities and that we need to be more moderate in planning the implementation of funds. It's not just infrastructure we have much more opportunities to invest in human capacities. and in some other things, a question and social services in the community where we should focus. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113847	Next replica, the esteemed Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113848	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Tramišak, by changing the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, you have redeployed more than 800 million kunas for rebuilding state houses in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and Banovina where one significant part of these houses will be intended for families of difficult property status. More than 15 billion kunas are planned for the Sisak-Moslavina County area for raising the quality of life, an economic picture of the employment of these people through strategic highway projects Zagreb – Sisak, railway lines and other capital projects. For this reason, my question is can you say what can the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County and Banovina expect in the future regarding all investments by your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113849	The honourable parliamentary representative, therefore, when we talk about the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion in this period of 2014-2020 and the urgent response of recovery interventions and from these funds, the affected area, as well as the known and mentioned Solidarity Fund, can be intended only for the restoration of public infrastructure, so public services, however, in order to be aware of the situation that the largest number of victims of family actually are houses or multiple buildings, and that a large part of the people lost their homes, we had the opportunity to quickly intervene to request the realisation of the 111 million euros more precisely 843 million kuna for the construction of replacement family houses as well as multi-state buildings. We signed contracts in May last year with the Central State Department of Housing who are now in the process of realising those contracts. As far as I know, there is also a conclusion of public procurement for the contractors in Petrinje for the construction of the first multi-state buildings, and I believe that by the end of next year, they will actually succeed most of these funds. And immediately implement and move the people out of the container. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113850	The next replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113851	Dear Minister, here you have mentioned in your statement that we are currently on average using European funds according to the latest indicators, can you once again tell how much we have been here since we have drawn more funds within the EU than we have paid and where in this whole story there are Slavonia Countys, here you come from Slavonia as I, unfortunately Slavonia is still economically lagging behind the rest of Croatia, whether the Slavonian counties are using better these European funds or they are unfortunately in... compared to the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113852	Dear Representative, so when we talk about the benefits that Croatia has and when we talk about even the difference in payment in the European budget and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia we are currently 55.9 billion kuna in plus. It means more funds paid than we pay for membership alone. It's really an indicator that says that we have the right dynamics, that we realize projects and funds because otherwise we couldn't withdraw those funds. Slavonian counties depend on the size of the county itself and the capacity, I return again and to fiscal ones, as well as the number and economics, family farms and the number of institutions that can withdraw funds. When we look at the county itself, then it's actually the size of the county and the number of units of local self-government condition how much money some county has withdrawn. Slavonski counties more than 18.7 billion kuna thanks to its good preparation of projects and great activity in applying for all calls from all ministries. So here we're talking about all the European funds that were available, the counties are They were very active and more than 18.7 billion kunas were arranged. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113853	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, one specific question. Is it true that entrepreneurship projects stick to the county, not the local self-government unit? Does this mean that the entrepreneur from Sinj, Imotski, Vrgorca is in the same position when it comes to the score as the entrepreneur from Split, Trogir, Solin, Makarska? Is that true? And if it's true, is that what you intend to change? Because it's true, if it's true, it's unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113855	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for asking. If I understand correctly, you're talking about concrete points that are... every entrepreneur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is said in the public invitations and tenders themselves, there cannot be any positive discrimination in the award of points in the area from which the entrepreneur comes. However, I suppose you're talking about a map of regional support, and when we talk about a map of regional support, it is closely related to NUC 2 regions, we know that by statistical change on 1 January 2021, Croatia is divided into 4 NUC 2 regions and according to the European Commission guidelines on the use of state aid. Thus, support was granted by regions, so we grew 25% in Pannonia Croatia compared to the previous period, also 25% in northern Croatia, an additional 15% in Adriatic Croatia more than in the previous period and the City of Zagreb by 10%. All regions will, therefore, have much greater opportunities, i.e. to withdraw more funds in a percentage amount in a new period. However, a concrete score cannot depend solely on the location where the entrepreneur comes from because it simply by the rules is not possible. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113856	Dear Joseph Begonja, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113857	I thank the Vice-President, dear ministers, it is true that the EU funds are starting Croatia because without EU funds, little would be done in certain units of local self-government, and not only in them in terms of social and municipal infrastructure. But I am interested and ask you to tell me about the state of administrative capacity in the management and control system of certain operational programmes because there is an impression that there are not enough employees to control the process of certain operational programmes. We know that from the day of the submission of the ZNS to the payment, and for the small units of local self-government every day is a long day, it's going on a lot of time, so I'd like to ask you to tell me something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113858	Dear Parliamentarian, when we talk completely about the management and control system, there are currently more than 2,200 employees working in individual bodies. It means from the intermediate bodies of level 1 of the governing bodies and the intermediate bodies of level 2. When we speak specifically, what I can say about the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion of the Central Financial and Contracting Agency, we mentioned, it numbers 357 employees, it handles more than 4,000 projects and 36 billion kuna. So for a new period, we know that we need to strengthen the capacities of the Central Agency and this is what this is about, so there will be more employment and there will be a concentration of several level 2 intermediate bodies in this single body. For other level 2 intermediate bodies in other programmes, this is something that the resolution ministers are dealing with, in particular, the Ministry of Agriculture for the Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Agency, I assume you are also talking about this particular problem for local self-government units, so there are certainly no additional employees there and the plan for a new period of some kind of employment is envisaged. According to the workload analysis, the data is that about 800 workers are missing when we talk about All of these funds that need to be withdrawn [[Intruder: Time.]] in record time. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113859	...respected Marin... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113860	Dear Minister, I know it's not your ministry, but I'd like to know how you comment on the commercialisation and innovation tender where it applied for the fastest finger and where certain warnings came from entrepreneurs that the instructions were made to entrepreneurs who had prepared these processes before, or during, been corrected, so I'd like to know what your comment was about and if that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113861	Dear Parliamentarian, I cannot comment on this competition that is not within the domain of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, what we can say is that we are working on a new methodology of different types of publication of calls in which we will avoid permanent open calls that turn into the fastest finger and the Ministry of Regional Development are already preparing common national rules for the 2021-2027 period, where we will avoid this type of project selection, or that projects are no longer allocated and the funds are not allocated by the very fastest reported project, but that all project proposals will have to enter into the evaluation process and then be evaluated by those who best contribute to both the objectives and purpose of the call itself, and then fully indicators and growth of the economy, employment and everything we want to achieve with grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113862	Next replica of the esteemed Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113863	I would like to thank the chairman, dear Minister. Within this reporting period, ending on 30 June 2021. A total of 410 irregularities have been reported to the European Anti-Fraud Office. The question arises as to how the audits have not found any irregularities that have been committed in connection with the Roman case and former Minister Horvat, or they may have committed their irregularities after June 30, 2021, which is unlikely. I have to ask you, how can a report by the competent ministry be adopted if it is subsequently found that there are evident malfeasances with funds, or worse, in my opinion, how can the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Development and the EU give a green light to such a report?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113864	Dear MPs, when you talk about some specific cases, I think they are not related to the use of EU funds and they are not forwarded to the European Office for the Prevention and Prevention of Irregularity and fraud, specifically OLAF. The correct information is that 410 applications, suspicions of irregularity were, this is always about suspicions and it is done by bodies in the management and control system. So what you call auditors. So the authorities in the multi-level management and control system shall examine the regularity of the FVCs and the correctness of the asset verification and any body in that system at the hierarchical level, if it finds that there has been a suspicion of irregularity, it is also mandatory to report it to OLAF. So 410 applications were made by the body, 250 cases were closed, so no irregularities were identified, remained in the process and we will know what to do with all these procedures. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113865	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113866	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I am interested in how this inflation, i.e. increased entry costs to numerous construction companies used through this part of the EU funds, how does this affect EU funds and what are actually instruments of the government at all, is it possible that builders are not leaving projects but to finish projects without being lost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113867	Your Honor, MP, thank you for this matter. So a very current and very important question. Most of our perspective is related to infrastructure works. The major state projects I mentioned did not go with proper dynamics, they were not, we could say, prepared in the project-technical documentation in time, they were also late in public procurement, and now they are faced with major challenges and increases in the price of construction material. What we are bound by are certainly regulatory and laws, meaning the complete legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on, all the laws relating to the building, in addition to that of the European Public Procurement Directive. So here are our answers, which is a manipulative space, or how much we can make a step up. In addition, it is important to mention when we talk about EU funds compatibility, we are 133% above the agreed and we do not have room for an increase in allocation, those who are increasing labour prices and are looking for some way and an indexation method, however, we will certainly have to comment on this with the EU Commission so that there are no irregularities afterwards. So, first of all, Public procurement Directive, Public procurement law, [[Intruder: Time.]] The zoo's on. [[Intruder: Next Replies Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113868	... They're doing Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113869	I would like to thank the Vice-President of HS, Your Honors Minister. You said in your statement that so far we have received 9 billion euros from the EU and that we are in a plus 56 billion kuna. There's a lot to be said here, but I can't argue with these numbers, so we've gotten a lot more than we've paid, and I'm sure we're not going to get this money back, actually I'm not worried about it at all, I'm more worried that maybe the square in the town of Zadar is going to come back with a cold-blooded model of death. What I want you to know is how the county centers withdraw money? I know, I come from Zadar County and there's been an excellent job there and there's been a terrible amount of money and it's actually changed the city's vision. Do other counties do that and see if there is a difference between individual County withdrawing money? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113870	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113871	Your Honor, MP. So, I'd say that many counties work very well on projects. This is exactly what I mentioned they are beneficiaries of grants, they are the ones closest to citizens who carry out and implement concrete activities in the projects themselves. When we talk about Zadar, Zadar County, a very high-quality and high percentage of the use of funds, I am now speaking by heart if I am not more than 2 billion kunas only of the city of Zadar. We witnessed and opened Providence's Palace a truly impressive project of preservation and restoration of cultural heritage where we see that both the city of Zadar and Zadar County took care of their heritage. In addition, the entrepreneurial incubators that are being opened so far are three, we know that if I am not mistaken and the fourth is ready to talk really about that work that is happening within the city of Zadar and Zadar County. So I can say not all counties are of course equal, but indeed a lot, a lot of the users and cities and counties themselves are working on the use of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113872	Next replica of the esteemed Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113873	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. I'll refer to another topic, and that's the problem of the workforce. So, something that we called a problem 10 years ago, today we call challenges. You have also referred to infrastructure projects several times, so there are no infrastructure projects, there is no way they can be realised without those who build, and these are builders having a sufficient amount of workforce. So we have two problems, one problem is the number of people who do it, another problem is the prices that went to heaven. And if we're not fooling ourselves here, it's not just Croatia, the problem of labour shortages is the whole problem at EU level, so even from where this workforce gets out, so I'm interested in you and your ministry can't answer that, but what I'm interested in is whether the talks were at the government level, whether you talked about it because all the money won't be spent because they won't have anyone to realize.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113874	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113875	Honorable MPs. Here's very short, so that's exactly the means you have to have first who realizes to pull them out of the budget. We see that in Croatia it is really much that has happened throughout the Republic of Croatia, and when we talk about concrete infrastructure, of course, we depend most on the construction sector. The construction sector in some way began to revitalise, and then it became faced with a lack of labour that went beyond Croatia's borders, but this eviction and this wave began 10 and 15 years ago, so it's not something that happened to us recentually. Indeed, we already see trends in the return of a number of residents to the country, if we simply have more demand for jobs than we currently have employees. We hope that this new period will give us all new opportunities and all together in some positive rhetoric that we have towards young people and start returning them to the Republic of Croatia for different interests, not only construction but you also mentioned the ICT sector, but all other high-quality professions. After all, we said that we lack people and in the fund control system, and we need those quality experts in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113876	The next replica honours Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113877	Mrs Tramišak, the level of corruption in European countries when discovered in the public procurement segment ranges between 5, 10 or 20% at the real price of the purchased service. In Croatia, in the case of your predecessor Gabriela Žalac, we have testified that €2.9 million was paid for software, €13 million, which is more than 300% at a real price. This kind of corruption is rarely seen in even world scales. The minister's adviser at the time of this unprecedented thieving was Zvonimir Savic, who is also an adviser to Prime Minister Plenkovic. In any functioning democracy after such brutal corruption, all persons who had any duty in the affair would be removed. Have you replaced Councilor Savic or is Savic as Plenkovic's executive essentially a real minister in your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113878	Dear Parliamentarians. So, I can't comment much on any of the cases and proceedings that are under way, you yourself mentioned you were witnesses to the conduct of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor in Croatia, persons who are covered by either the investigation or the indictments that are on them, I really can't comment any further, nor have I received any information that Mr. Savic is involved in any way. Mr. Savic did not receive any information that he was involved in an investigation involving the process or proceedings. So I don't have that information in any way involved. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is still unable to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113879	We have a breach of the rules of procedure of the respected Karoline Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113880	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238th, this is an insult to this high house, you are obliged to answer the question for the sake of the Croatian public. Of course, you did not replace Councilor Savic I will answer for you that the Croatian public knows, and you had to because according to all the democratic senses when it comes to such an apparent thieving and stealing you were obliged to remove him from that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113881	You used this for replica, you get a warning. The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113882	Thank you. By decision of 16 May this year, you have re-launched an investment programme in the community that allocates tens of millions of kunas to parishes. What is problematic and the media have commented on whether the Church should also take those funds that should have gone to the community and that should have gone for restoration, neither for churches nor for, nor, excuse, for kindergartens nor for schools were given any means that would have been meaningful, but the money was given for the parking lot of the parish. Joseph in the Stubic Spas or in the Parish of the Ascension of Mary for a numismatic collection. Why do you run such programs, which is the purpose of these programmes, is the purpose of these programmes really convergence and cohesion or are we really going to remain Europe of other speeds?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113883	Dear MPs, it is true that there is an investment programme in the community. So the religious communities and the church are part of the community in the very text of the call in a transparent way it has been announced that they are acceptable notifiers of both religious communities and churches. They are separate from the funds that are intended only for those activities carried out by religious communities. We know that in a number of local environments and they also perform humanitarian different services, to hold kindergartens, we have had opportunities and such applications of such projects and specifically, the funds are precisely meant for this and for the kind of projects that provide our religious communities. In addition, a large part of Croatian cultural heritage is located in sacral objects and we also need to take care of it. So there are opportunities, there are opportunities from the EU funds by the EC that funds, i.e. as beneficiaries of grants, can also be reported by religious communities to perform these kinds of services in the community. I've never seen concrete projects before, I can't comment on what I know is a principled approach. why such an invitation is called. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113884	Next replica, respected Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I think it is unquestionable that there is significant progress in withdrawing funds from EU funds and clearly, it should be stressed that this has not come from itself, that knowledge and skills were needed, and I would mention here a programme of very high quality, and this is a technical assistance programme that your Ministry is conducting towards the county development agencies and this programme has enabled many local units, municipalities and cities that have no financial capacity as well as many public institutions, such as hospitals, to prepare projects free of charge. I'm curious, since this program seems limited from the end to the end of this year, will this program continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113886	Your Honor, when we talk about technical assistance, it is related to operational programmes. The percentage of funding from the Regional Development Fund shall also be determined for technical assistance for the capacity of the body in the management and control system and for all other needs in order to manage the funds better and better. So that's the priority... technical assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was therefore activated in the past period, thanks to previous ministers precisely to help and regional level to strengthen capacities at that level, especially regional development agencies that were later converted into public institutions and this resulted in numerous quality projects and assistance and units of local and regional self-government. What we can say is that in the next period, it lasts until the end of 2023, how long it lasts and withdraws from the period 2014-2020, for a new period of '21-'27. The percentage of technical assistance has been reduced, however, will be looked at and found to continue their work, and this will be seen by the approval of the programme as much as and to what extent. More resources of course, we also need to focus on the bodies in the management and control system by ministries and intermediate bodies so that users do not wait long for payments, however, we also take care of regional development agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113887	Next replica, respected Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113888	Thank you, dear Vice President. The government shows its attitude towards BiH by all means of protection to strengthen BiH's educational, health, cultural institutions, the care of about 7,500 victims of the HVO war, all means of protection to students and generally different infrastructure projects. Dear Minister, do BiH Croats have any way of accessing these generous European funds? How many of the 13 programmes the ministry has negotiated, out of 13 cross-border cooperation programmes, wastes trilateral to the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro? When will these funds be available? And can you say a little about which areas all the funds from cross-border cooperation projects, first of all, can these trilaterals be used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113889	Your Honor, MP. So, it is true that BiH is taking part, together with Montenegro, in the IPA Interreg programme as a pre-accession member state for EU membership, together with the Republic of Croatia. Of all the available programmes and sources of funding of 186m euros that we had for cross-border programmes, we directed most of the allotment towards BiH by the Republic of Croatia, more precisely around 57, if I'm not mistaken, now, millions of euros. To this, the EU Commission added those funds to BiH-Montenegro and around 100m euros should be available in the new programming period. Programming and programming process completed, ending. These are separate programmes from these operational programmes that we mention and according to the agreement of all the countries participating in the programme, the EC and the programmes are approved and they can move very quickly with realisation. So almost twice as much funding in the new period for Croatia's co-operation, BiH and Montenegro, as it was in earlier times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113890	In time. Josip Boric, your honor, is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113891	Thank you very much, dear Minister. Here, today we will certainly have a good debate here about this report and I think it will be led around it most at the perception level, whether something successful or not is successful, and I don't think anyone will ask us at the end of 2023 if we built a school in this municipality or that town kindergarten or something like that, rather than whether we used that financial envelope we had to make available for the period 2013-2020. To remind you, the SDP also left us former Minister Branko Grcic, who knows everything today, and then knew nothing, agreed 6% and paid 1% of all funds. In order for us to get there, we had to make another 94% deal and 99% should pay off. My personal question, but also the only question to be evaluated for, are we going to make the most of what was available to us, 10.7 billion euros?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113892	Dear Parliamentarian, at present 72% say that there is a lot of work to be done, these are serious funds and serious billions of kuna agreed on by those 50 and nearly 6 billion already paid out of the European budget. But in order to make 100% of the envelope, and we're working on it, we've arranged 133%. So 33% of the funds are higher, so in the situations of these major projects that have more phases, it wouldn't be because of the transfer to the new envelope that part of the funds was not used. So, the Regional Ministry's governing body has taken this approach beyond the bargaining, but of course we continue to depend on the realisation of the projects of the users themselves so that we can withdraw the entire envelope. At the end of 2023, we will see how many projects have been successfully implemented. All these challenges and these price disturbances are not in our favor, but I say the dynamics are still satisfactory. We've done a lot, we're 19 now, we're on average the EU, but we're only waiting for us in 2023 when we're going to get results and see how many users have actually managed to realise the projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113893	Next replica, the esteemed Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113894	Dear Minister, I believe that everyone welcomes the increased withdrawal of funds and I believe that everyone will eventually rejoice in 2023 if these funds are actually withdrawn. In your presentation, you mentioned among other things that one part of the asset was allocated to computerisation, information, automation of production by entrepreneurs. I would ask you for information since the objective of this computerisation, information, robotics is to speed up production, increase quality, increase productivity, increase profits, increase market competitiveness and employ a workforce that has not been employed until then, given that the structure is changing due to and different machines that are in these plants. If you have information on how many new workers are employed in these companies that have received funds and how much is productivity increased?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113895	When we talk about this latest call from ACT funds for the manufacturing industry, and these projects are still ongoing and we're going to add these indicators up at the end of 2023. 273 exactly contracts were signed around a billion... Kuna, and at the end of 2023, we will see what is and what are the results and what are the indicators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the period previous to 2014, around 13,400 jobs were preserved and more than 7,000 jobs were newly opened through the implementation and implementation of operational programmes precisely in those calls that went in the direction of entrepreneurs or economic operators. These are data from the old perspective, and I'm saying about this further and for REC, we'll see when the projects are done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113896	The next replica honours Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113897	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, you have informed us of all the operational programmes and amounts in billions of kunas we have agreed or have at our disposal to finance a number of EU funding projects. The rural development programme in my Brod-Posavina County built miles of roads, kilometres of water network, built and built a series of kindergartens, social homes, firehouses, numerous aids agricultural achieved etc. Do you know whether funds and measures from the rural development programme will be provided in the future because we still need to build municipal infrastructure and to build and upgrade social and social facilities or that will be possible from some other programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113898	Dear Parliamentarians, what you are asking me is about the European Agricultural Fund and the rural development programme. Therefore, the measure is 741 72 investment in roads, investments in the basic infrastructure in villages co-financed by that programme. So that was the goal of raising the rural area, and there they could have been unclassified local roads. Now all this depends on the completion of the programming process of the new strategic programme for the development of agriculture for the period until 2027. So, it's located in the agricultural vault itself. What the European Commission will say on the roads in the new period is very questionable because we know that everything goes with access does not make significant damage to the environment, so all operational programmes, all sources of funding must comply with that principle. And there are reduced funding opportunities of exactly that kind of infrastructure, so roads. What is needed at local level and regional security find funding sources for local, local roads or that kind of infrastructure because European funds will not go in this direction except for those major connections to the TEN-T network of black points Nodes and, in that sense, traffic connections. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113899	The next replica of the esteemed Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that everything depends on the users themselves in delivering grants from the EU funds. Does this mean that when they are granted grants that it is no longer your concern and that they are able to cope with it as they know and can? And tell me, what are you going to do to help those users with the realisation of the funds? Do you even have administrative and professional capacity to help these users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113901	Dear Parliamentarians, what I said at the beginning was that it was up to them, not just the bodies in the management and control system. Ministrys and bodies in the management and control system when we talk about EU funds cannot be put into situations to implement projects with users. What we must do is monitor the intentional implementation and use of these funds because it is paid out of the EU budget and the consistency of implementation of projects with the relevant legislative legislation. It's the role of the ministry and bodies in the system. In order to help them, pre-financing of projects themselves has been ensured, and the maximum potential for European Commission regulation, the 30% and 40% since the project was launched, have been used. It means they're allotted in advance. Further, strengthening the body's capacity in the system to... They pay fast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who are certified shall again depend on users who have to provide relevant information. Finally, billions and 100 million kuna were agreed at local and regional level last year, aid from the state budget in their contribution and participation in co-financing of these projects. So, you're doing help by the body in the system, but also on users, depends on the activities. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113902	Next replica respected Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113903	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I come from the Varazdin County, which is really thanks to the EU funds, it has also developed economic infrastructure, agriculture, crafts, education, culturally, not to list everything else, and that is a real and further goal for us, and I believe that both the county and all local self-government units will continue to work to that end. But my question to you is what, a development strategy for the north of Croatia. 15 billion, 5 counties. What stage is that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113904	Dear MPs, when talking about a development agreement signed at the end of December, in particular 28 December 2021, it was intended to bring strategic projects and development priorities into line in the 5 counties of northern Croatia. Most of the projects, more than 9 billion kuna, are intended for transport infrastructures that are at a certain stage in the preparation and production of technical documentation, some of them in realisation. We know, here, we have now mentioned that there are no European sources for them but that they will go through other sources of funding, loans from the World Bank, the national budget and that the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure have already launched certain activities in the realisation of them. This development agreement has no limit, it is a longer period for realization, and the first things we have launched through the call for project-technical documentation for those county projects and cities and municipalities projects, 160 million kuna has been called for, 40 million kuna is now intended for northern Croatia. So we're starting to realize these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113905	The next replica honours Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113906	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, almost every job and so on, when it comes to the effectiveness of withdrawing EU funds, are key people. This report shows that when it comes to the management and control of the Operational Programme competitiveness and cohesion... The city employs 25% less employees than we should. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the operational program of effective human potentials, 39%, and so on. We hear a lot of criticism when there's a contest being held by the opposition, and we see that we're missing people. Tell me the experience, since you've said that and now we've got competitions, what's the interest, how many people are applying and how long they stay in the system and what makes us think that the more quality people stay in the system for as long as possible to have more efficiency?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113907	Dear MPs, the question you asked is relevant precisely for the use of the funds themselves. The bodies in the management and control system according to the workload analysis are still missing around 800 employees, and these are not new data. We know from the start of implementation that we will have to strengthen capacities and that there must be employment of people who will be professional and do exactly this specialized job. I cannot talk about responding to the competitions themselves because this competition is not carried out by the Ministry of the Regions, it is carried out either by the Central Agency or other bodies, but it is also an additional opportunity for young people who have gone beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia to return them to work on these projects where they can contribute significantly to the development of the Republic of Croatia and with the help of these funds. Furthermore, it is up to us to consider the pay system in the public administration because people who spend the corresponding number of years in the services and achieve envious knowledge go to privates outside the system, too, and we need to address it through stimulation. So, that's a question we have to keep working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113908	Time. The last replica of John Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113909	Thank you. Dear Ministers, on page 17 of the Reports there is Table 12 which shows therefore the financial indicators of the status of implementation of the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentialness. So from the beginning of the implementation itself, so 2014 to 30.6.2021, and this table actually shows how and how much EU funds are being used, so we see that in the Good Governance axis, the key axis for implementing judicial reform, administration reform and civil society development, therefore key reform projects for this country, that we have managed to verify only 15% of the funds from that axis. So in 8 years of all 10 as much as we can even withdraw. What are the causes of such a weak withdrawal, and what are you planning to do to fix it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113910	Dear MPs, managing body for the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials and Ministry of Labour and Pension System. So they manage the complete system and the intermediate bodies level 1 and 2, so level 2 intermediate bodies that need to verify individual axes of this Programme, they are not in the Ministry of Regional Affairs, what they can say we are here, noticed by the EC and the EC that the European Social Fund is weaker than the regional one, although it is regionally linked to infrastructure, and the Social Fund are the soft projects that should go faster with dynamics. What I know is that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system also proposes to simplify the management system in a new period, so that some bodies that have not responded to the challenges and have stopped to pay faster and better the funds and will no longer be provided as bodies in the system. There will be a concentration to make these capacities essentially better exploitable. We know that in the previous perspective, here are these problems, that some bodies have not adequately done their job, and in the new perspective, it is proposed that these bodies are no longer intermediate bodies of level 2. It's something that's just waiting for us, I say, for this period simply, once you've established the system, then later it doesn't change because you start implementing the projects and then you just can't return retroactively everything. So we can get to that in a new perspective. [[Intruder: Time. Thank you, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113911	Thank you. With this we've exhausted the replicas, please sit down. Yes, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. Here's your esteemed Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113912	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. This report was discussed by the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds and, of course, everything the Minister said about the new figures, the Committee supported this report by most votes, so that the Committee's conclusion is that this report is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113913	Thank you. Now, I'm opening a debate. The first one was reported by the IDS Representatives Club and on their behalf the respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113914	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I think we're going to have a good debate today, all in the direction of improving the entire system. I believe that we might also give some concrete and quality suggestions, however, as was expected, something less we actually talked about this report which was until 30 June 2021 which, probably even less talked about it because it was not quite something quality paid and much paid out than it was... that is, according to the report, only 57.16% in that period until 30 June 2021. It's definitely according to the report we've had the opportunity to read, we can't be satisfied, it's not, it's not good. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion in that period only had 51.41% of paid funds, the operational programme of effective human potentials of some 60ths, in the rural development programme we have much less contracted funds than 99%, which is interesting, here in these first two things I mentioned we had 129 and 114%, and here means rural development of 99% of the contracted funds, and 75% of us have paid off, while in the operational programme for maritime and fisheries we have withdrawn only 42.90% of the funds in that period, which is really very bad when we talk directly about the report we are discussing today. It is interesting to read and learned lessons, but unfortunately we have an opportunity to see today as if we have learned nothing. In fact, in the new financial envelope, we have unfortunately some canceled tenders like what I mentioned and in, when I asked for a break, for start-ups until the 5th. the age at which entrepreneurs were due to apply until 1 June of this year, and the tender was cancelled only two days before the start of the application. I think that it should also be taken into account that these entrepreneurs, beginners, or newly established firms, are most likely and took somewhere consultants who will write them their application for, for this eu project, that they are both spent potentially and some of the funds, and definitely those who wrote or applied for that contest have definitely spent their precious time and now have to wait for the competition to be called again and for them to apply and that is the problem, and the problem is that more when we know that this is not our first envelope, then the second is and I think that we should definitely be better prepared there. At the tender worth 380 million kuna commercialisation and innovation, 354 entities applied in the first second and what I asked the question, which is that certain entrepreneurs warn that the instructions to the entrepreneurs under which they were prepared were prepared to prepare this application process after the start of the application, and that is, if it is found that this is indeed the case, it will be a serious scandal. We also had the fastest finger in the last financial envelope, the way we applied to the projects, and then we also knew it wasn't good, we also pointed to it. What I am pleased with today is that there will be some changes, but I do not understand why we have been waiting to start re-applying in order to have some difficulties again, and now we will have to correct it. What is also an interesting question we will have and I think it is good to go in the direction of project evaluation, to choose the ones that are the best projects and that will definitely be given the most in the development of the Croatian economy and that will definitely enable the maximum number of jobs, so hopefully we will also make it possible for our fellow citizens who went out to return, but the question is whether we have enough capacity to evaluate all these projects because you mentioned yourself that we were missing 800 people, and yet it is unclear why we are now aware that we are missing 800 people, and we have a past financial envelope where we also had this same problem, and I agree with you, and in last week's debate I was mentioned in the free speech that we have a problem of paying people who work in the state administration or local self-government because they have too little salaries, learn to do their job or work for the funds and simply leave their resources, to see their own capacity and the ability to work better, and to do better. It is also a fact that we still do not have operational programmes, and in this period there are as many as 3, competitiveness and cohesion, effective human potential, integrated territorial programmes, that there will be no competitions, otherwise there will still be none, and above that there will be no funded projects, and it is quite discouraging because it has already been a year and a half since the financial envelope has been used. The Recovery and Resistance Fund, where we heard some praises, but we need to say what's the fact, you correct me if I'm wrong, we have 6.3 billion euros at our disposal, and only 9 competitions are scheduled, and these 9 tenders are heavy 600 million euros, so only 9%. What is also important to say is that all funds must be agreed in the next 2nd year and projects are implemented by the end of 2026. and what I'm going to say for the end is that we also asked for an extension of the deadline from one year until June 2023 to make use of all the funds from the Solidarity Fund, and that is almost unprecedented and the European Commission has met us in this request, but we have so far used only 4% of the 750 million euros we do not have. A shamefully small amount, and at this rate, we are seriously threatened by a fiasco. To end, I'm just going to say that we're going to see how, which is going to be the final figure, as far as we've agreed or withdrawn funds from the financial envelope of '13-21, but what we can see now is that we haven't prepared ourselves enough, that we have seriously big money at our disposal because we've had a serious problem during the covid crisis and that the EU has noticed, it's given us the opportunity to withdraw those 24 billion euros to create a more resilient and powerful economy, but the fact is that at this rate and at this point, and at what we've heard everything together today, and that's that we've had serious problems, that we haven't changed them, that we't changed them again, and that we'll all be able to create problems that we've had before, and we've been able to see it in this year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113915	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113916	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today is 100 days since the war in Ukraine, from the moment Russian aggression started and this may be a good time for us all to remember together why the EU was founded and why it is good for Croatia to be a member. It is not the sharing of money from European funds that created the idea of a united Europe. It is created to live and it must be kept in mind in peace and stability in which we can then have both a good standard and a common dignity for all people. And economic measures from the day of coal and steel to this day are tools to achieve and preserve peace and freedom of people. And in order to have a stable and united Europe, differences in the level of development and prosperity among individual members should be as few as possible. Both structural and investment funds play their part as well as a tool to reduce differences. Of course we're from total equality very far away. Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Sweden, Croatia is clear to all of us that we are not even on the same level, but the funds are one way to get close to it. Using them is what Croatia is trying to do. And now we come up with a key question about how we use them. Now, that's a whole other story. If we listen to the government, HDZ agents, and even if we read this report with caution, then we can get the impression that everything is great. But when we open the official EU statistics on funds, then we see that Croatia is still at the bottom. We're at 54% at paid amounts. The example for so many mentioned is to 82%, let's say Estonia to 80. There is still something wrong regardless of the figures the government likes to boast about. The key is very low, among the worst in the Union. And if we really want to accept the connection, we can't always be among the weakest. By the way, we're just as wrinkly as Croatia's entry into the European budget, we're paying a little more than 28 billion kuna, and we've been paid almost 69. So much for not having any use. I have to admit, there's a big flaw in this report, and I think we should seriously consider it for the future. It's written as if it was intended to be as hard to walk. This report is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it is available to the public on the website and since the assembly is the most political body of the country, then this report really has the status of an important document. A combination of one of those same sentences where each third word is shortcuts, and only numbers change are not what they would expect. Of course, I have to be correct and say that it is not just a problem in Croatia. The administrative processes in the EU are too saturated, hard to understand bureaucratic meta-language for which you must have a dictionary and a guide to understand at all, and we do not actually have the right information. What are these projects we finance, how have they improved the lives of citizens, how have they brought us closer to those more successful than us? Unfortunately, we don't know that from this report. But the part that was particularly interesting to me and I'm going to refer to is the chapter on lessons learned. Learned lessons are always a good thing. Collecting experience and learning on your own mistakes but also successes can certainly make work better. The only question is whether we are able to learn or apply lessons, because over the years, we seem to have all similar objections to the use of EU funds, we are facing very similar problems, as well as lessons learned from these six-month reports as if they are being repeated. One of the lessons learned under the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion is the use of financial instruments. This is a new way of using credit line funds, guarantee schemes and venture capital funds. And why are they popular? Well very simply, because they allow simpler access to funds primarily because of less administration because there are no long too many formalised procedures, the funds are obtained in advance, etc. Financial instruments have proved to be very useful for both users and countries, for the state and for the citizens who pay taxes. One of the lessons we must have learned I hope, and supported by Covid and the related crisis, is that we need more flexibility than this has often been the case. The conditions change, the prices rise, the availability of services or goods vary and the implementation of the project must be kept in mind because in the end the only understanding is that as many projects are actually implemented and brought to an end. Like I said, the paper suffers a lot of things, but let's actually see the whole effect done. Specific problems are irregularities in financial corrections that are due to them. In that part, it is good that the ministry realised that it was primarily necessary to act preventively and published instructions. We will see whether this and how much impact it will have and whether everyone involved in the process will indeed realize that their first objective is to prevent, avoid errors and irregularities through sharing and applying good practices. One lesson we have learned, but each time it seems to be over and over again, we need to learn that the procedure itself is extremely complicated and often long-term. It is a business that is particularly difficult for many applicants, especially those with less or less experience and resources, and with often uncertain outcomes, there should be a serious strengthening of preventive, educational and partnership action. The objective should be to make the process simpler for those who apply and to prevent possible errors in advance. And lessons learned from the Operational Programme The effectiveness of human potential confirms where they are well-known old pains. The problem of human capacities, overcomplicated and slow procedures at all stages, the need to use simpler cost options, and then the issue of information systems that clearly do not follow reality and needs, and coordination and communication between various participants of the process. All of these are well-known problems that we have pointed out several times both in the use of funds and in all other parts of our country, and we record them year by year in these reports, but is the question progressing at all? Do we really learn anything from our own recommendations? The particular question is the administrative capacity of our state to use funds, questions are asked whether we have enough people, whether these people have enough knowledge and whether we are working on their permanent education, when and where we recruit them, what are their working conditions and how much we pay them, how do we ensure that as soon as they get a little experience and create a network of acquaintances don't escape somewhere outside the public administration system? Does one of the answers to why we remain weak in the use of funds lie in these questions? Again, this is not closely related to European funds, we do not have an answer to these questions in other parts of the public administration, we do not have schools, hospitals or any other public service. In the context of European funds, we are likely to lose millions and billions due to insufficient administrative capacity. European procedures are complicated, there is no doubt, but Member States have the room for manoeuvre to make things easier and to be more or less successful in using the money available. Regardless of the Croatian government's self-gratitude, our country remains at the bottom of official statistics for success because the contracting and pre-negotiation are one thing, but in the end we are interested in the money that is really paid. That's what we're weak in. If work is done as this report is written routinely, bureaucratic, dry figures and shortcuts without hints and ideas, directions, without clearly drawn serious procedures that will improve things, then we should not be surprised at our success or better to say about failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113917	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives of Honored Representative Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113918	Thank you. Honorable ministers, respected MPs and MPs. Today is a good and concrete debate, primarily talking about numbers, talking about operational matters, and I have to admit that it's nice to hear both sides. But in the end, whether we feel comfortable or uncomfortable, the most unpleasant fact is that a lot of money goes back and a lot of money from European funds is not being used. It's also an unpleasant fact that we've gone almost 400,000 from this beautiful country, and we have to ask ourselves, then who we're doing all these huge projects for, which we're exactly pulling out of these European money that's billions of dollars have landed sometimes as it's shown through the media as if it's fallen from Mars. They didn't fall from Mars, they're all money for the good part and from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that our last list was not very good, let's say one Zagreb County was just Dugi Selo and St. Weeks recorded plus, and other cities either minimal or slightly larger minuses. Be sure that someone will call from Brussels and say listen, you don't need that much money because you're not in this Croatia, so you'll probably get a few more bites and a few Eurocents back. And what's most interesting when I mention Zagreb County is interesting is that it's the only county that doesn't have a city bearer for integrated territorial investment so-called. ITU fund i.e. The ITU mechanism, certainly one Samobor or one Great Gorica, as a large centre could do a bunch of projects. There is again talk of not using a lot of potential, one bad indicator of the use of eu funds is the water supply and disposal of the city of Zagreb, a real zero kuna, a zero euro has been drawn over the past period and I bet that's how it's going to be in the next. What does that mean? This means that your areas of up to an estimated 800,000 inhabitants will be almost a million to one and a half million to no sewers, no water lines. will shoot the pipes that are still from the time of Austria-Hungarian, which is one big shame for Croatia, it is a shame for us, it is a shame for everyone who works in the public sector that they are unable to withdraw money from the eu funds and prepare the most normal projects. Unfortunately, we're still responding to the case of the Grill, we're responding to a case that's tied to SAFU, and it's going to be a very, very long, great shame on us. What is even sadder is that even our state-owned companies like Croatian Waters experience performances, you have agglomeration of Male Neretva, Croatian waters are completed. So our state-owned companies are not fulfilling their duties, and that's a living horror. We have a million people in the administration, 800,000 people in the private sector. We're running out of about 120,000 workers for the season. Where are we going to get them? What a... The exact conditions for them we're working on? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we have huge problems in the construction sector. The lack of a master, the lack of a employee, the lack of a worker, the lack of good companies that could do all these projects, and even if we get all that money, that is. Justifying them towards the EU, all I care about is who's gonna do them? We're having trouble getting now, so how long does it take you to get steel, get iron, all the material jumped up, and unfortunately the extra price for all that inflation. It is waiting as a dry gold recommendation from the government, a recommendation from the Chamber of Commerce in which it can be seen about the increase in costs. You can legally have VTR up to 30%, but the problem is that these purchases are now going so far above the 30% that it's in the interest of all performers to terminate contracts. If they break your contracts, we have such a procedure so long, so complicated that while you select the next performer, you can have a minimum of one year and I'm saying that in an optimal, optimal case. We're talking a little further now for this next period. You have a situation, for example in Zagreb County, I just mentioned the targeted Samobor and Velika Gorica, but also the Long Village and Saint Sunday. The Holy Sunday has an increase in population. There's a school going on. The school, within the last four generations, records the increase of students, which is one of the conditions for withdrawing funds, but quite accidentally, there are some party commissioners who do not want to report that school to EU funds, just out of some kind, but will apply from some places where the number of residents has fallen. In other words, they won't get the money potential for the Strmec school and they won't get it for another centre. So the double loss, and that shortsightedness in the end, who's going to pay? Croatian citizens will pay. The inhabitants of Zagreb County, our cities and municipalities will pay. All because someone's either jealous of someone or they've got that so-called. The country's jealousy and some kind of Croatian bile, which is a shame. We should be as politicians above that rise. I really care about how anyone dresses, whether someone loves me or not, but when it comes to the development of Croatia and the economy, when it comes to the development of schools, when it comes to the development of infrastructure, when it comes to the development of agriculture, I think we should all be united. This money from the EU should, under quotes, be kidnapped, but not kidnapped as bandits, but in one right way, be distributed throughout Croatia, and then at the end of the day, we will have better conditions for life, better conditions for schooling, less going to foreign countries, and if we continue at this pace, and if we continue in this way, we will have to return more money back to the EU and what is happening to us in the earthquake affected area will happen to us. Stickers will be removed because they cannot be restored, we will not have people who want to live, who want to work, we will have one devastated and empty Croatia. It's a Croatia I personally don't want, I'm sure and that a good part of the people, regardless of what's missing over half the assembly today, too, and here they don't want. Because whose representative are we going to be if we're not in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113919	Next is the debate on behalf of SDP's Representative-in-Office Branko Grcic's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113920	Here, it's on. So this report is one in a row, but what we're interested in is the current situation. I must admit, you have a very good PR, strong PR because it assures us that this is a very good situation right now. It is and is not, given that and the past 8 years are not full, at this point Croatia is somewhere on the 3rd from today's data from the Cohesion page, I believe only that, I don't know if there are any internal data, however, it says, here, it was just checked, you, Minister, can check, Cohesion data, EU Commission data, behind us are Spain and Denmark. Denmark isn't cohesion, it's Spain, so here. Come on, please, check it out. I can see that you're indisposing, so we'll see. So in this ongoing debate, I've made sure that you like to step away from some truths, and then here, check it out, it's, I'm not relevant, it's relevant what you see there on that page. So, as for the use of funds, the current situation is 63% of the funds spent, if you look at the funds paid, which is the most relevant. Well, according to the funds, it seems different, most of all, there's a problem with the cohesion fund. It paid 40%, the Union average is 72%. It's the same data as this morning. So 3.6.2022. Then this largest regional fund, 62% compared to the EU average, is 67% and worst in the ESF, hence the social fund where 30% of the EU's average of 65% was paid. But it doesn't really matter anymore. We're two years old, and I hope you can do it as much as you can. What matters is where we're scheduled. Where did we make that appointment? Why do we have so many adjustments, as colleagues used to say here? What are these problems in the process itself? Why, for example, for 2 components that are extremely important for the development of Croatia, which is research, so research and development and ICT, so information or information technologies. Why was only 13% used in the ICT and only 48% in the score? These are key and qualitative components for Croatia's future growth. That's what everyone's saying and in that segment it's least used. The truth is about several hundred million euros, and otherwise we're talking billions and billions. But these are two important priorities in 15 thematic units as many as there are in the EU fund structure. Let's say education and professional training exactly 50%. A little bit, a little bit. Well, it is our key lifelong education is one of the most critical areas in Croatia. Adaptation to new technologies. It has to be crucial in every country today. There is still a problem with the implementation of infrastructure projects, which is why the cohesion fund is so bad as a percentage. So it's big projects. There's a lot of trouble in the field for them to have a good time, and I do if you want to, and I understand. Here's me and my colleague Lalovec talked about it a little while ago. This question he has referred you is quite legitimate and current and there is indeed a lot of problems. Artists of works, problems with performers, delays, price differences, etc. etc. But that would be the part. Now, as far as the future is concerned, what you ministers were talking about is the state of operations. So you may remember you who remember for as long as I've been hit by my HDZ colleagues over some things between other programming documents and operational programs. And my team did it and the European Commission accepted your standards in November last year. You understand? All operational programmes except rural development were accepted in the first year of perspective in 11 months, and now it's been almost a year and a half and we still have no indication that operational programmes will soon be confirmed. Why is that a problem? So because you can't negotiate, start negotiating projects from a new financial perspective until operational programmes are confirmed and the partnership agreement is signed. I, behind every word I say here, stand firm as I am behind what we have just mentioned here with my colleague Pavic, that the Croatian Government in 2013 was not up to 1.7th of the European Council, so that it would represent changes to the regulations that dictated those billions of euros that you are talking about because it clearly stated that this was only for the member states until 2013 not including the thirteenth. And that's what Marco knows and he's admitted to it before, so he said why you didn't fight in the Council about it, and we weren't in the Council. So how do we fight? 1.7. We have also come to the Council. Now, that's one detail. Then let's say I made an effort to find an answer to my question within the hour. So you have, here's the document, it's your document. The document is called strengthening company competitiveness, I was talking about businesses, investing in digital and green technologies. Nothing more important at this point digital and green. So solar power plants, solar power plants, this, that, the wind. At this point, the extremely important price of wild electricity has increased three times for entrepreneurs in a year, three times, 200% in all tariffs. And it's unusually important that now people entrepreneurs can try to substitute that energy. How? By building solar power plants on the roofs of their plants. And people like that come to me and say, "Is it possible?" I'm building a plant in Muc, I'd like a solar power plant in Muc. There is one small place nice in Dalmatia Zagorje but not a bit developed like Split, Trogir or another place on the coast where we still have tourism, live a little better, more quality, there are other institutions, there are public institutions, jobs etc. And he's in Muća as well as the one in Split, because you're in this paper, I'll give you the paper, I'll give you now that I'm done arguing. So, in this paper, it says under the criteria for evaluation and point 6.1. promotion of sustainable development and environmental protection, the criterion refers to promoting the conservation objective, etc. etc. And as part of the above criteria, there is a 4-degree county membership, not a local self-government unit. I ask you, because it's all these people who come from the field, you see how many of us are here and my fellow mayor Drnisha is my student colleague from student days, etc. We know very well what we do and what we do. ... It's not bad either, believe me. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Believe me, it's not bad. So change that, please, really question it and connect to local self-government units, not the county. We're making a mess. So, the man from Vrgorec, the man from Muc, the man from Imotski now mentions his county because she's among the more developed you know. And now he gets two points just like the ones in Split. So does that make sense? There isn't. And you know what the problem is? When you form a list of projects in one or two points are all, so everyone who crosses the funding threshold is in two points. And this guy from Muc falls into competition because he's missing exactly the two points he'd get safely if he were to fight JLS, and not by county, he did understand... ? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, my friend understands everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113921	Time's up. Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113922	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to remind once again how the European funds change Croatia, change our counties, develop our local community and how they ensure a better life for our citizens. Today we are discussing a report on the use of the Funds for 2021, it is interesting to look at the figures on today and to congratulate Minister Tramišak on the excellent results where we have agreed 125% of the funds of 10.7 billion euros, 71.25% is paid. Here, Professor Greek, we skipped six states, and now the minister could give you the latest statistics that haven't been applauded on the cohesion website that says we paid 71% and 58%. So we're in a plus 56 billion kuna. To work well, the European funds confirmed in Zagreb yesterday the first European Commission Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis who brought the good news that on January 1st of next year we are entering the euro zone, but also confirmed that in two weeks, we have an additional payment of 700m euros from the NPOO which will then be an effect that we will be totaling more than 60 billion kuna. The role of cohesion policy is to equalise ourselves in development with developed members of the Union. The idea is to help Croatian citizens raise GDP to the Union's average, to raise average wages and pensions and to be on average with other developed members and precisely European funds were key to this development, so let's look at a little, little macroeconomic data. We are currently in spite of the covid crisis where we have had a major decline in GDP, but we recovered in the year and a half, so in 2008, we recovered almost 9 years. to come to the same GDP, now that we are a member of the EU, when we have European funds as one of the generators of development in the year and a half we have recovered and overcome the 2019 GDP pre-crisis, GDP growth and in this crisis year where we have... in the first quarter of 7% of GDP. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in 2019, the government of Andrej Plenkovic comes out of excessively macroeconomic imbalances, and now in the latest report we have come out entirely of macroeconomic imbalances. What does that mean for our citizens? This means better credit rating, simpler borrowing, more money for our entrepreneurs, so the government is creating a business framework for entrepreneurs, for a better standard of citizens, and we see that by employment figures, we have a record 1.6 million employees, and with this season, we are going to cross one 6.11 which was a record number from 2008 and thus we will achieve the highest employment rate and the absolute number of employees from the creation of this country when there were many more people in Croatia, 6.1% unemployment rates, the EU average 6.2%, 108 thousand today unemployed at the Employment Office. Salary, the average salary in Croatia is now 1,000 euros, a minimum of 500 euros, the average salary in the City of Zagreb over 8 thousand 200 kuna. Therefore, European funds have changed the best of these waste billions, but here to answer some criticisms from my dear professor. When I was saying that you had time for regulatory professors, I just now looked at the CPR as a key regulation was adopted on 17.12.2013, which means that from Croatia's entry into the EU 1.7 to December there were at least 3-4 European councils where Zoran Milanovic could react, and according to the records he did not. Now that he values everything, looks, and has no authority, which he did not use at the time and has fought on the European Council, the European Council all agrees with the consensus, he had several European councils, which he was not a hero and provided Croatia a billion euros more. When we speak and when you speak and compare power and your government did not have a national programme of recovery and resilience. Operational programs, here's the minister and I have spoken except Interreg has not been approved by any Member State. Why? Because the European Commission has taken a stand to first use the NPOO, and Croatia is there after using the 5th or 6th assets in the EU, we have received 878m euros in advance, 700m seats in the Croatian budget for the next two weeks, that is a billion and a half, of 6.5 billion euros will be paid by summer, and that is how we settle between the 5-6 Member States using NPOO funds. But that European funds do not release numbers of macroeconomic forecasts that they really bring a better life to our citizens testifys to a number of projects that have really improved the quality of life, out of 500 built kindergartens that provide a better standard for our citizens and in support of demographic policy, than the arrangement of united emergency receptions and many hospitals and the purchase of many apparatus for hospitals. Since the Renaissance of the construction of ports on Croatian islands, it has never been so much invested in Croatian islands, from the project Slavonia with 18 billion kuna, from investment in assisted areas, from investment in research and development, such as the project OZIP, implemented by the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, which is a bright example of just investing in research and development. The permanent monument of this envelope will be the Pelješki bridge where I believe we will all be at the opening in a few months or until the summer party. Therefore, EU funds are very much able to make life better for our citizens from REACT-EU billions, so these additional funds, have been paid to preserve jobs. I would only remind, in the Covid crisis, 12 billion kuna, 800 thousand jobs saved, a good share of EU funds funded. So the EU funds have made Croatia a better place to live, strengthened our institutions, raised the standard of living, but the entry into the European zone will still be an additional stopper and stronger integration. And why stronger integration? Because just now modern sovereignty is how much you're involved in the process. As far as you can fight, and we've really fought for 25 billion euros. How much you can fight for having the influence to enter the European zone, how much you can fight to be part of Schengen. And that's where we proved to be equal partners, we saw that the prime minister received a report the other day when we came to enter the eurozone was when we chose Dubravka Shuic as vice president of the IPP, the prime minister received Chancellor Scholz who gave unequivocally support to Croatia and to enter the euro zone and to use and to enter Schengen. Such partnership and the reputation Croatia has never had before and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and he personally cares and it is this modern sovereignty that unlocks his resources, allows for a better life of citizens and... And that's not just us, it's public statistics that the EU Commission, World Bank, OECD, credit institutions and all those who show a stable partner in the use of EU funds in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there were any irregularities, the first vice president of structural irregularity wouldn't have... The first vice president announced a 700m-euro payment in the next 2 weeks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this report, we give you, ministers, absolute support to go in this direction and after the successful use of the NPOO, we expect the completion of operational programmes and the use of these 25 billion euros that Prime Minister Plenkovic fought for in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113923	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, respected Sanja Uvodić, Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113924	I thank the chairman. Here, as far as this report is concerned, the reports are actually ungrateful when they have to be discussed because only reports and find out what is already over, and here we are talking about the past period from the first 6 months of last year even though the report is indeed comprehensive and gives an overview and operational programmes that were implemented in one part until 2013, as well as in this section from 2014 to 2020. Namely, the half-year report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June '21. In addition to providing a financial analysis of the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes, it also provides a detailed overview of the implementation of the 2014-2020 operational programmes, as well as of the financial period 2007-2013 and of what was current at the time of the submission, but of course I regret to conclude with regret that it is still active. Namely, the debate takes place, here, today, June 3, '22. Mr. and it's about the information on the financial perspective of '21-'27. Mr. And so it is stated that the government was held at a session on November 5th, '20. Decision on operational programmes related to cohesion policy for the financial period of the EU '21-'27. in the Republic of Croatia, and the bodies responsible for preparing them, and established operational programmes are established, we all know that, Operational Programme competitiveness and cohesion, Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentialness and Integrated Territorial Programme. To this end, 7 working groups were formed and more than 800 members participated. The first drafts were submitted in August of '21, here, and today almost a year after they were still not approved by the EU Commission. The EC has made a lot of criticism, and in particular, here, I would like to touch one, as regards the Integrated Territorial Programme, where new urban areas are defined, here, so according to the government's proposals, part of rural Croatia suddenly becomes urban, which the EC has made its remarks on, which is actually only one of the shortcomings that must be corrected, and because of such and similar ones, we are again in a situation that the programme and documents will refer to a year that has long since been behind us. Urban aglomeration, here, must also produce strategic documents, but their production is actually impossible at this stage. Why? Because there are still no clearly defined directions and areas where projects and programmes can be planned. It is interesting to see from the report that administrative capacity in the management and control system is still underdeveloped. Here, after many years of the use of European funds, is actually saddened by the fact that the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds as a coordinating body still has to deal with the implementation of specialist education programmes and it still has to work to strengthen the capacity of the state and public administration bodies. Of course, it is understandable that this is about a permanent process, but the fact that there is often a change in staff working on concrete jobs is influenced by certainly uncompetitive wages compared to the private sector dealing with the applications and implementation of European projects, as well as work overload as is observed in this report. And now the consequence of that is actually a slow process. In particular, the consequences of this are that from the moment of application to approval, or until the adoption of the financing decision, they go beyond one year. The verification of the request for compensation by the intermediate body, I speak here by the HZZ which controls projects financed by the European Social Fund takes too long, from the handover of the GNS to its approval usually takes more than three months while the contract provides a provision that... it is mandatory to review the report within 45 days. After which, with the payment of funds according to the approved GNS, up to two months. The HZZ intermediate body does not examine the sent-off ZNSs thoroughly but requires re-sented documentation. The grant contract shall specify the amount of advances that can be obtained under the approved project. Here I must stress that the grant contract is actually nowhere to be stated that only half the advances can be requested, so there are examples where the advance is paid in four parts on the basis of four applications. How big a problem this is talking and information from the field, which is that banks have actually created a new banking product and are now moving with invitations to bridge the gap between payments of funds after approval of the SNS. Here I have to look back at the past period and point out that the funds for reconstruction were not used either during the reporting period, but here neither during the current period. Private investors, but also publicly slowed down, as with other operational programmes, are actually our old pain, which is always talked about over and over again, but it is still present and not solved. It actually refers to the slowness of the state administration as well as the still uncoordinated data in grants and catastros. The consequences of the coronal and war pandemic in Ukraine are now further slowing down our procurement procedures, the implementation of already agreed works and funds, and it is, in fact, necessary to intervene the government in the indexation of price increases in the construction sector, as this will further slow the absorption of European funds in this year, but of course, we will be overrun in the future and will be threatened. What was found in the report as lessons learned I hope the government will also serve in programming because in fact it still burdens us and programming can also say that the process that is still going on. But actually learned lessons can speed up processes by withdrawing funds. And I have to say that there are programming areas that are really well realised where a good approach has been applied and more funds have been reserved, but there are areas where there have been major congestion, and this is a concrete operational programme for environmental protection that actually had to be given an Action Plan to speed up absorption. Namely, large state projects have not been realised with the necessary dynamics, and with large projects such as the recovery of black dots or locations polluted with hazardous waste such as the recovery of the Black Cave of Sovjak, which was actually agreed since 2018, and the contracts have been signed and started only now in 2022, and I must stress that the project is worth more than 50 million euros. In environmental protection it is still late, especially in the part of the implementation of the waste management centre, which is of course visible in tables and percentages, and there is 65% of the resources of those who are falling off to Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County in which the centres were built and where they started working. And in fact, right now in the time of the energy crisis, it is necessary to reserve European funds precisely in these new programmes in order to actually circle the circular economy in Croatia that we are talking about, but we are not actually acting. We need to use existing resources, and that's one of these is actually unfortunate waste fuel that will finally come to terms as a new value. The circular economy, green technologies using natural resources is part of the environmental protection programme for which the Social Democrats Club will stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113925	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Righteous Croatian Honored Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113926	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The report, which is the subject of today's debate, shows the financial indicators of the implementation status of the operational programmes of the financial period from 2014 to 2020 in the reporting period from 1 January to 30 June 2021, hence the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, the operational programme and the effective human potential, the rural development programme, the maritime and fisheries operational programme. In the report, there is no analysis of the resources spent provided by the beneficiaries in requests for compensation, i.e. the cost of supplies for equipment and machinery, construction services, external services, remuneration fees, travel costs and the like. The report does not show the extent to which the users of the funds use the advance to which the user is entitled, and it is determined in relation to the dynamics of the activity, the project and the needs of the user for the purpose of carrying out the project in the contract. That all data should exist in the databases, because all users of the funds in so-called so-called. The requirements for compensation of funds provide aggregated data on the type of cost, so it would be useful for such data to be aggregated if they are not available in the reports of the Council of the Republic of Croatia, and then at least to the public because these data are a very important factor and essential element for macroeconomic planning in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there is no record of who the end-users are, for example, whether they are public authorities, whether they are a company owned by the Republic of Croatia or JLS, entrepreneurs, associations, humanitarian organisations, public institutions and the like. It would be desirable for these data to be found in real time in a centralized place. By mid-July 2019, no rules for the establishment of financial corrections for identified irregularities were established for the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, operational programme of effective human potential, rural development programme, operational programme for maritime and fisheries. Today, the so-called ‘registration’ applies to identified irregularities. the rules on corrections which form an integral part of the grant contract, but not a general act adopted by the competent authority. The so-called decisions on irregularities are often referred to as a legal act as guidelines for determining the financial corrections set out in the European Commission Decision of 19 December 2013, which have not been published or published in the Official Journal of the EU, nor are they in the National Journal. I am taking the opportunity to point out in this report the shortcomings of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period from 2014 to 2020, and the Regulation on bodies in the management and control systems of the use of the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund with a view to investing in growth and jobs. For these matters, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is designated as the central body of the state administration responsible for regional development and EU funds. However, pursuant to Article 88(1) of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-line, except those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Therefore, given that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not have constitutional authority to adopt regulations which develop the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms, in part and in the manner of the work of the national authorities, nor the Regulation on bodies in management and control systems. In the future, then, our legislative framework with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be harmonised. In fact, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds was designated as the central body of the state administration responsible for regional development and EU funds operations as the quasi-based appeal body that decided on the complaints, on decisions, on irregularities of the co-loquially named corrections in relation to requests for repayment of funds. In order to strengthen the transparency of work, and prevention of irregularities and decisions on irregularities, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds should be able to make publicly available information on objectors and administrative solutions to the complaint of irregularities decisions. The general provisions of the Treaty on the Use of Grants financed by EU funds provide that managing bodies and intermediate bodies are obliged to store and not disclose information to third parties about the user and partners designated as confidential and which could harm their business interests. The obligation to keep information shall not apply where it is justified to apply the rules on information and visibility, the rules on the right to access information, and the need to inform other national and European institutions, including the bodies of the management and control system, sectoral authorities, and persons employed by bodies or persons engaged in the management and control system bodies for the purpose of carrying out activities related to the tasks of their work. In the latter case, reasonable steps shall be taken to protect information classified as confidential. Such a general provision of a grant contract financed by EU funds led to the intervention and the very Commissioner for Information of the Republic of Croatia, which concluded that the contract concluded by the public authority as a beneficiary of the funds with the relevant ministry and requests for compensation under that contract, as well as the accounts of suppliers accompanied by requests for compensation should be made available to the public without any restrictions. According to the text of the earthquake report, which took place on 28 and 29 December 2020 in the field of Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County and Karlovac County caused significant damage to the state property, and during the reporting period there was a purpose in the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion through the amendment of the new priority axis, hence the recovery of the damage from the earthquake, within the framework of the insurance of 843.6 million kuna for state-owned facilities managed by the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management. Two calls were issued for the restoration of family houses owned by the Republic of Croatia on the earthquake affected areas and for the removal and construction of replacement housing units owned by the Republic of Croatia on the earthquake affected areas. The beneficiary was signed grant contracts on 26 May 2021 and all activities on projects are to be completed by 31 December 2023. In other words, only state-owned infrastructures will be restored with money from the European Competitiveness and Cohesion Fund. But citizens can expect assistance from the European Solidarity Fund until June 2023, so a year longer than the planned 18 months. Although it is also a European fund, it is not listed anywhere in this Report. Why? In fact, at this point, citizens are most interested in rebuilding their houses, i.e. to rebuild which, let's be honest, has not even begun. Allow me to conclude one personal review of these available figures. So since 1 July 2013, so this is the date of Croatia's entry into the EU and by 30 June 2021, the Republic of Croatia has paid the European budget 28.25 billion kuna, and the EU has paid 68.69 billion kuna in the same period. With a simple accounting operation based on the data from this Report, we come to the conclusion that during 13 years, the Republic of Croatia received an amount of 40.44 billion kuna, i.e. around 3.11 billion kuna per year, and that this amount has been paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, but it does not say anywhere that all these coins have been used in accordance with the rules for obtaining funds. The fact is that 3 billion kuna per year is a real aid to the Croatian economy, but given the fact that the 2022 RH budget is 164.5 billion kuna, how to justify almost half-tronic political relations between the EU and the Republic of Croatia. Or, in other words, if the Republic of Croatia were not a country that is in charge of 87.4% of GDP and that we do not have such annual interest, we would not need EU funds to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113927	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the MPs. What are EU structural and investment funds for? In principle and reportedly serve the implementation of EU policy and more balanced development, reducing differences between Member States. So how does Croatia benefit from EU funds? To begin with, money is allocated on the basis of the preparation of operational programmes, each of which is tied to a separate EU fund, and then operational programmes within them have axes that define priorities. In addition, in addition to these operational programmes that we have 5, decentralised funds are being sent down through territorial cooperation programmes, and of all these operational programmes and the resources we have had the opportunity to reach, this report that you have provided us tells us that we have reached 47%. So 47% in 8 years of implementation, which should probably mean we're going to get the other 53% in the other 2. They were alive and seen. The funds are allocated through 2 basic models, i.e. direct allocation for large strategic projects, Pelješki bridge, limited invitation tenders where the funds are agreed in advance and who needs to prepare some documentation or project, and then these entities report to the call and open tender for grant, so the famous grand scheme which can function or, in principle, open competition with the deadline, so a competition that lasts a month or two, all interested applications, all applications are evaluated and selected best or other modes, and this is a permanent open competition, etc. The fastest finger. The latter, unfortunately, in the mode of open competitions and the most common and functions as follows. The tender shall be opened, applications shall be collected, but shall not be evaluated but shall literally be required to satisfy the minimum of the score threshold and the ranking list shall be agreed on the basis of the speed of the application and the competition shall be closed when all the funds are awarded, which shall normally be within the first half of the first minute of the opening of the tender. So within the first half of the first minute, it's faster than the tickets to Bruce Springsteen's concert on a new European tour. So we're not looking at who's best prepared the project, we're not looking at who's more in need of the project, we're not looking at what the goals and the purpose of the project are, we're not looking at how much these same objectives are related to the objectives of the competition, we're just looking at who first clicked. The above is of course a major frustration with the notifier,... I'm sorry, there's a movie gone, yeah. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah, okay, and feelings of injustice, and also of hiring gamers, programming bots and using other fraud mechanisms to make it through EU funds. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As possible and why, for God's sake, anyone would create such a process, the question is which is being imposed, and the answer lies in the fact that the ruling is unable to organize the system, which is also seen from the reports delivered to us. In particular, in each of the operational programmes, there is a lack of between 10% and 40% of the human capacity required for implementation. Perhaps the reason for the lack of people is an unimplemented planned Human Resources Management project that should have defined employment, promotion and wage standards according to merits. Namely, if you want to award funds according to the principle of a deadline contest, where after the deadline all these applications are evaluated and corresponding to the results of the evaluation, and not the speed of clicking are ranked then you must have evaluation teams, either internally or externally. We see according to the report that there are no internal teams, and why the external evaluators are not sufficiently engaged, we do not know that because even though every operational programme has the means for technical assistance, so those who serve a specific implementation organisation, our rulings do not complicate with evaluations and similar tricks but are effective as they all solve in a second to two. As we seem to see in practice in the evaluation report of the operational programme of effective human potentials in the period from 2014 to 2020 in which we read, the experiences of those who prepared projects and tried to apply, and they say: we chased to the post office, we were ready at 8 and 59, and then the Internet disappeared, or we sent the application yesterday at 11:56.07 and 56 seconds respectively, which seemed very good, while we received notice of the failure to submit a project application because the call in question was suspended by the basis of the amount of grants in previously received applications, up to 35 seconds had already been spent around 200% of the financial envelope. In addition to these, you will agree, the mechanism of ranking the projects of those who would like to use eu funds also makes it more difficult to announce that the tenders are being announced, so they disappear, that by the last minute they do not know and announce the conditions, many individuals, companies, associations, JLS, literally prepare projects blindly, extract documentation, extract building permits, we all know how it lasts and looks in Croatia, and all to realize in 168 that they can't actually apply because there are no conditions or that they have been delayed for a second to two with applications, almost, almost as if someone wants not to receive eu funds, we can only ask ourselves why, even though the funds are granted to some fortunate people. We have three options, answer A are bots, answer B are gamers and answer C are HDZ's, so in the field there are stories about how those who have so-called. the vertical to the top whether it's JLS, whether it's private, so those close to HDZ and HDZ have information far earlier, so the prepared ones are waiting for competitions. These verticals have proved useful in some other situations, so SAFU gossip says that a series of corrective projects have been put in place for everything and everything. One of the funniest ones I've ever read is this one of the most fun examples is the one where SAFU has identified irregularities and set a 25% financial correction to the total amount of public procurement contracts for works and equipment that amounted to more than 300 thousand kuna, and you know what the irregularities were? They were obvious in the dimensions of the armchairs that were purchased and that were 5 cm away from those that were listed in the public procurement, and in the color of the chairs, the required color was natural wood, and it was obtained black and they received a correction of more than 300 thousand kuna. On the other hand, those in verticals went much better when it came to corrections, which eventually ended with the lady. The sting and former director of SAFU Petrice in prison. If we just briefly recall that Mr. Petric was re-appointed as the director of SAFU after Telegram wrote all about the Zalac affair and its dubiosis with the EU funds and that he was appointed by Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, it is impossible to conclude that the HDZ verticals are neither a coincidence nor an exception but an EU grant system in Croatia. In addition, the fact that tenders for municipalities and cities of different development index continue to separate, which in practice harms those with a low index because they often do not have the capacity to report projects, but also many JLS, for example, from Istria or Northwest Croatia, complain that they have no chance of getting the funds. It is impossible not to notice that it is precisely those JLS where the HDZ is not in power and then, on all the above, we come to the means that you constantly boast from the NPOO where it is clear that there is still no clear procedure that, as much as and as much as it is financed, there are no clear indications that the fastest finger will be removed once and for all, there are no clear conditions and criteria for the preparedness of projects that can be applied to the NPOO, and even though we still have not completed a single operational programme for the 2022 period of 2021, which started in 2021, we do not yet have an operational programme, so once again there is an impression that it is only relevant vertical, a vertical band with the HDZ which decides to assign more than tens of billions that this country to bring it finally forward and with this money can really be implemented, but only on condition that it is not controlled by the HDZ vertical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113929	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113930	Good afternoon. Let's try to face a few myths that are repeated here, and maybe on one side, and on the other hand, one of them is, that's a huge asset, we have 25 billion euros in Uuuuuu, now we're going to be very renewed, we're going to fix everything, the economy is going to grow. This is a little more than the previous period, but it should be asked why Croatia did not develop in the period from 2014 to 2020 even though it had 11 billion euros at the time, why? Because this amount is smaller than the total Croatian investment in the private and public sector in just one year before the 2008-'9 crisis, the total amount in that 7-year period is less than just one year pre-crisis. To gain insight into how small the resources we de facto can't develop are, I'm just going to give you a few more data. In one year, the United States has a budget of 4 times the EU in 7 years. So the U.S. federal budget is over $4,000 a year. The EU budget is slightly less than 1000 billion euros in 7 years. Okay. It's a little disproportionate when it's turned on now let's say it's an extraordinary corona fund, but that's irrelevant. It doesn't matter what the amounts are. But perhaps a bigger problem than height is a restriction that these funds can be used for at all. These funds cannot be used for cohesion and development. It means I can use it in the frame of the so-called. the famous free market, which sets out certain restrictions. One of these restrictions is in your contract and on the functioning of the EU in Article 107, which is called the conditions of use, where state support is prohibited. Anything affecting the famous, allegedly free market and competition is prohibited. So this is nicely called an institutional framework for the use of EU funds, which is why we come to the fact that shipbuilding is destroyed in our country, although we must also recognise that the EU has never demanded the privatisation of shipbuilding that we have done on our own. Means they can't obviously help not to shut down shipbuilding, shipbuilding is the last meaning of an industrial branch that has the ability to produce higher added value, multiplier effects on the economy, produce a highly sophisticated product and not services and tourism means the sector that prevailed for us, we became monoculture. It does not help to maintain or develop the agricultural and food industry, to maintain and reform the technology and equipment of the textile industry. So all the industries in which we once recorded significant exports. The second myth, the second myth of the EU funds, will develop, not only are these very large funds, but we will develop through them. Why are the EU funds serving? So EU funds serve convergence and cohesion, as well as the preservation of the internal market and equal opportunities for all members. I guess that means preserving, I guess that means making an effort to overcome inequality and setting counterweights to the results produced by so-called. the internal market in which they compete economically unequal and undeveloped. But it is clear as a day that we do not see any convergence, nor cohesion, but we see Europe two speeds, mass emigration from the periphery to the center, the shutting down of production on the periphery, the increasingly unfavourable economic structure and one of the lowest employment rates of colleagues Pavić. So the manipulation of statistics is very effective especially when viewed isolatedly in the context of what you say from this morning. So a reduction in the unemployment rate, so the ruling is constantly being called on by not only you, I think, and your whole side keeps saying that. Yeah? But when it's put into context not only that statistics, but also growth statistics, GDP growth statistics. When it is put into context with other similar countries that are growing faster have more employment rates or so, then it is shown that we are objectively lagging behind when you grow slightly, and others are growing faster it is called lagging behind rather than progress. When it comes to employment, it should be specified exactly in the employment rates that we have since the beginning, or how many countries in the environment have had a higher employment rate, as quickly as they have grown in the last 6.7 years. By the way, Croatia is the second poorest country in the EU. In 2020, Croatia dropped to 64% of the EU's average GDP per capita. It is not the most important criterion for GDP, but it is symptomatic, so it went down in 2020 compared to 2019, and we have cemented the status of the second poorest EU member in society with Greece right above Bulgaria whose GDP, for example, increased to 55% that year. But let's move on. When it is said that we will develop, the EU funds will develop in a visible way that we have a trade deficit with the EU and abroad at all. Here's the latest data I found, so in 2021, the deficit was, the external trade deficit was 64.4 billion kuna, which is 16.6% more than in the same period in 2020. It is evident that EU funds in this financial perspective do not improve the development of Croatia at all and do not contribute to this development of cohesion and convergence, and it is obvious that this increasingly unfavourable economic structure affects that we have only micro, small and possibly angry entrepreneurship. We don't have any developed, highly sophisticated production. One of the very manipulative myths propagating the HDZ is we've got a lot more than others. So 25 billion euros. So we should seek out as few EU funds as possible, so that we are the ones who give the bank to the EU and we receive less, because that would absolutely mean that we are more developed than others. Getting social help isn't really something someone should brag about, which makes them smart, which is ashamed of, which makes a smart fool ashamed of himself. And that's all I can say. What I've asked the minister is also enough to say so worryingly and her answer. So it's a new project that's already been re-launched by a series of public space pressures. So again, since 16 May of this year, the investment programme has been launched in the community. It is not the problem of the minister that cultural heritage and churches are structurally restored, but it is really the problem in which it is done. That we are getting a new project despite the fact that both through the budget and through funding, means local communities of churches and church projects and infrastructure projects are launching a new programme in which the ministers are not at least financed by infrastructure projects and reconstruction of churches, but as I quote here is funded by St. Joseph, the parish of St. Joseph in Stubički Spas, their parking lot, we have saved the parking lot. Or the numismatic collection in the parish of Mary's ascension of 300,000 kuna we gave for the numismatic collection. So in addition to all non-transparent funds that exceed a billion kunas per year of Vatican contracts that are specific to Croatia alone, we will now pay another project where no associations will appear, nor will it be able to pass because it is evident from previous examples that civil society associations here were subordinated to the battle, but here are the numismatic collections and parking lots of parishes. And when Plenkovic announces that in the future we will receive even more money from EU funds, let's all clap on the fact that we are in the last place in the EU and that the social assistance called cohesion and convergence is praised as some kind of Croatian success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113931	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113932	First of all, I will refer to that report, and it will also address some of the general problems involved in attracting funds from EU funds. As far as this report is concerned, I suppose we are used to very little in the Croatian Parliament, so we should be grateful accordingly when the report comes to us for only one reporting period and late at least half a year against the legal provisions. Unfortunately, during the previous reporting period, we discussed 4 reports for 2 years that were just as late. Now, of course, we should discuss everything according to the regulations either two reports or a minimum that we are in line with the timeline on that report that would have happened by December of this previous year. The fastest finger is still not a problem that has been solved as previously highlighted here in the debates, which we see as a problem in dealing with even new ministers, and what is particularly worrying about what can be found in this report, and what the minister also pointed out earlier is that it is talking about the new methodology. How long has he known and recognized the problem of the fastest finger in the Republic of Croatia? And how it is possible that after so long, after a few years we are still discussing working on a new methodology, and we still do not have clearly indicated criteria and guidelines that will really enable all the projects to be evaluated and to avoid potential manipulations with the fastest finger that, as a solution, has never been the happiest precisely because of its illogical and natural discriminatory methodology. During the reporting period, this call-and-project report significantly affected the pandemic of covid-19 disease and earthquakes in affected areas. So we could find out here that for the above reasons, especially those related to the earthquake affected areas, some of the projects have expanded to the next reporting disease. But I'm afraid we'll just see what kind of epilogue this reporting period will be, and it won't even help us, to meet the criteria, or to take the funds that we could spend in the EU funds for the recovery of earthquakes affected by areas. We have never even learned about the epilogue since we will now attract large funds for education in the Republic of Croatia for both preschool and primary school education. The epilogue and the consequences of what was happening during Minister Divjak where we had to pay the big penals for the so-called so-called. the correction may be the most wrong word to be used when we are discussing the allocation of funds and criteria for verifying these same funds within the EU funds. So that correction cost us that someone's arbitrary allocation of certain positions and opportunities of participation in the EU projects related to the Ministry of Education cost the Republic of Croatia more than one million kuna and no one was properly punished for it. And this again leads us to that principled issue of subsidisation when we talk here about all the irregularities that I will also highlight as part of this exhibition, given that there is a Penal Code, since there is a way to regulate this topic and since for so many years we have been talking about various malversions within the framework of the right use of European funds as people really in Croatia are convicted of subsidisation fraud. And is there anyone who is criminally responsible for such failures that result in corrections or corrections are led as well, and that we could also find within this report for certain projects as failures that are not anyone's fault, and thus go unpunished for everyone except the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will have to follow those losses from their own funds that they have invested in the budget. Therefore, money that is once allocated to certain persons, regardless of what was past the competition, cannot be returned beyond the criteria to our budget, but the budget will cover these mistakes or how it is liked to say the failures. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the financing of the European Social Fund (ERDF) and to the general budget of the Union. The ARPA provided an indication of the implementation of the recommendations and concluded that all recommendations except one were implemented. So, we have a lot of such places in this report where there are certain irregularities, but when it goes further into the finding that these irregularities are, we have some general descriptions instead of having an emphasis on what has not been implemented and the detailed reasons why this has not been implemented so that we can learn from it, and even this part that relates to the descriptive irregularities of the project, I do not see still the justification that we do not have specific examples of the person, the company and all those responsible for irregularities or fraud in the use of funds coming from the EU funds. The problems we have with the use of EU funds remain the same, although in each reporting period we have an interesting chapter called Learned Lessons. A lesson learned would be a lesson learned, not a lesson yet to be implemented. Here, when we talk about lessons learned, we're talking about something that we've seen that needs to be fixed, it's still not a learned lesson. The learned lesson is manifested in the next period as something that no longer happens, either as an irregularity, or as the possibility of easier attracting funds. Here all the problems, when you talk to people coming from local self-government units remain the same, the possibility of participation at all in attracting funds from EU funds, which is why at the end of the EU funds allow me to simplify it, to make richer, so rich local self-government units can continue to develop their local self-governments and attract funds from different EU funds, unlike those poorer, precisely because of the possibility of participation or parts that local self-government units themselves have to pay to apply for a particular project, or use funds. Yes, of course, they can raise loans at low interest rates, but when we come to these credits, you can't raise them for 100 projects, you can only raise them for some and you're still there, if you're a poor unit of local self-government, or that unit that needs the most money, limited in attracting those same funds, unlike those that already have money, so they can develop some other additional policies in their local self-government units. This leads to poorer units of local self-government and the inability to participate in several projects, and if we take into account the current situation, what the ministry should urgently deal with and remains an open issue of how it will solve already signed projects with consumers who belong to a period that has not felt this radical inflation and market disturbances. Currently, many of the projects involved in spending these funds are worthless on paper because the prices they are listed and under which they are agreed cannot be realised in practice because the prices have gone well up, especially when we talk about construction and similar professions. So how are we going to revise the already concluded contracts and enable these same units of local self-government and those that have attracted EU funds to other criteria, to still be able to implement these projects, if costs are worthless. The biggest problem for capital projects that are currently related to state projects is because in the end, the state will lose projects. When we talk further about irregularities, the review body in June 2021 found that those checks were adequately carried out and that the systematic error did not have a financial impact on the acceptability of expenditure. Thus, the errors that are happening in us are observed, i.e. that the conditions for the amounts to be included in the previous requirements are met. We also have the situation that when we speak in addition to the types of irregularities reported during the reporting period, projects co-financed by the ERDF, one case of infringements of the co-financing rules has been recorded, and this is then a reduction which requires and approved a higher amount of costs than it is registered. And it's a slip. For the slip, I suppose, there are no sanctions or consequences. Very, very interesting. So now that time is running out, I will continue with this further delivery and reflection on irregularities in view of what we are most burdened by society in an individual debate, but I would like to know, indeed, when we talk about sanctions both at the level of officials and at the level of those executive ministers, how many sanctions there are because of irregularities in the use of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113933	The following are individual debates. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113934	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll continue about where I'm standing in the debate on behalf of the club, and this debate, let me, I'll sort of center, or I'll lead to what I really appreciate the pain of all the pains, which are people. So I am one of those who is a big fan of Croatia entering the EU, it is good that we are a member and it is good that we are in a society of richer, more successful, who know more than we know. Similarly, I think that we can learn some lessons and lessons from all of this, and that I am not only reading the EU in a way that is related to the withdrawal of funds from the EU or the use of funds, but rather to a number of other things. But either, when we look at the location of Croatia, we are at the bottom of a mountain of things and we need to ask ourselves why and what we need to do to change it all together, to take a step and make some step towards something better and simplified, when we talk about people, I will talk about three topics, three groups. First, it is those who prepare, who work on programmes and projects that apply to the use of funds. The second is those who conduct and ensure openness, transparency, control and everything else and third groups of people are the ones who are really doing something on the ground to make these projects real. And in that, of course, I'm always attached to something that I'm kind of imagining that I know more about, which is infrastructure projects. The minister was here when she spoke, talking about the state and the role of the state and the use of funds related to infrastructure projects. Local self-government units equally, when you look at what projects they're very involved in with infrastructure projects, so I'll start at the end. Who's gonna do it? Who's going to realize that? Well, colleagues and colleagues, let's face reality. We have today that construction companies cancel work for two reasons, because they know they've agreed on one price at which they can't realize it, and they can't provide extracurricular work and everything else because of what the minister said, because of the public procurement and everything else, and they don't have anyone to do it with. And let's not kid ourselves, there's no more potential for some construction firms in the EU to appear because they all have the same or similar problems. There are no people, there are no people who will work and instead of trying, the engagement is done in a way that we can see what we do, from which part of the world we will allow people to come and do because what we are, we are the pool that was available, we have exhausted, in this pool I mean we have exhausted both Albania and Kosovo and Serbia and BiH and everything else, so the pool is somewhere else and instead of our government sitting down, talking to all possible options and variants to see what we are doing, we are staring at and things are going to happen. The works of the construction companies will be canceled because they will have no one to work with, and then it's going like a domino effect, it won't be realized any further. Secondly, another group of people is people who work in public administration. So, we who have been remembering or doing some things for a little while longer, I remember in 2013 exactly, Croatia's entry into the EU and the problem we had at the level of the ministries, at the level and the governing bodies and the first and second with people who were not adequately educated, who were not adequately prepared to deal with, speak from this aspect of the administrative aspect of the EU project, do not speak at country level, but it was on local self-government units. You then offered what for the public administration was, so, one step, 20% higher pay for those who worked on the projects, I can specifically talk about the energy efficiency project, 20% higher pay. You didn't get anybody, you couldn't get anybody. And now we have the next problem. You take people, you educate people, when they get knowledge, experience and everything else, they go from public administration somewhere else. So let's face real problems. Otherwise, we'll discuss this regularly. and with real problems and reality we don't face. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113935	Replica, the first respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113936	My dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, here I am in the debate on this subject because it seems to me perhaps the most important and important thing right now, given the inflationary pressures we feel. What will indeed happen to capital projects whose costs are practically worthless in this economic situation? So how to solve this problem, and does it seem, in your opinion, that the state is enough to reflect itself at all because we currently have a situation where the difficult pain has been arranged for projects in the inability of their realization due to a deep market disturbance, so when we boast that we have delayed, we get an extension of the time limit for spending the funds, it doesn't mean much to us because these funds no longer value what they were worth a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113937	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113938	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasdic. So things are, must be viewed with several levels or several layers. One thing is to brag that you got an extension of a year in a situation where the building material is gone, when the prices went to heaven, when you don't have the people you're going to make with, it's just a man who doesn't understand what the problem is. We have Minister Paladin in charge of providing 67 million kuna related to the Kukari project, offering him something else, and not dealing with what he should be dealing with. So this Minister Paladin should tear his legs off running around, meeting and seeing how this problem comes out, how to make it possible at all to recognise extra-costs, but not even extra-cost work, but to increase prices. Do you know who's dealing with this part-time? Minister Butkovic related to those projects which are from his resor. [[Intruder: Time.]] Partly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113939	The next replica respected Ivan Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113940	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Dark-Taritash. We have already commented, I have commented in the replica of Minister Table 12 where it is evident that we have used only 15% of the funds for key reforms of the administration and the judiciary and for the development of civil society. On the other hand, before that in the Report, Table 10 clearly shows that in Croatia fundamental rights such as the right to lifelong education or the cost of involving children in a socio-economic disadvantage in pre-school education and education or assistants continue to be paid and financed by project-based funds, which, of course, is completely unsustainable and we see it every year when we have a new drama. Do you think those two situations are connected? So, we do not implement reforms and that we finance fundamental rights through EU funds and projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113941	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113942	Thank you very much. So, reforms don't live in Mark's square, reforms live elsewhere. They don't even live where the government building is relatively close and that's where they live they'd come in... would come into this House and we'd have a chance to discuss it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just at the level you should. Reforms are actually the key, a series of things that everything else comes from. One reform, education reform is something. So, health reform, education reform, everyone, you will see in each campaign are topics of health reform and education reform. Of course it's forgotten, not to say reforming the judiciary where we see where we are and how we are. And then forget it and then we got nothing out of it. Education reform is essential. We're going to graduate 1,000 graduates this year less than last year. We're going to have some unspeakable places in our universities, and what we've opened to receive the people of someone else? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113943	Followed by a replica of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113944	Dear counterpart Mrak-Taritash, it seems to me that the main problem is that Croatia has no idea how to use European funds properly. So, Europe has finances, but we should use these finances as a lever of development, and it seems to me that we apply for the funds of order, that there's some kind of fund, so we're going to see if something falls under a house, so we're going to withdraw the money without seeing what it actually serves. And the second biggest problem is the lack in the control system, primarily those financial and legal ones. This is what we saw on the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where huge funds are practically blown into the air and into nothing, and we see that there is no political responsibility or, for example, the Srebrenica project, which is currently at a very high risk of failing even though it is a project that should be of strategic and vital Croatian interest. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113945	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113946	Thank you very much. So imagine that you accidentally have someone asking you MPs we are in the Croatian Parliament and you and I, living in a country called Croatia. We have 3 million and 800,000 inhabitants relatively observable in 2022. What kind of land is this, and as soon as that country deals with 2030? What's tomorrow? It's 2030 tomorrow, and God forbid you have to give an answer to what kind of country that's gonna be in 2050. Because to give that answer, we should know today in the education system what we educate kids in high schools for, for which we educate kids in colleges. We should have an idea and a vision that we know what we want to be. Do we want to develop a pharmaceutical industry? Do we want to develop I don't know some kind of processing industry? There are no answers to that, and that's why this whole Silver Man case doesn't really surprise you, something when you do don't do it till the end, not even halfway. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113947	Followed by a replica of the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113948	Thank you, Vice President. You've put your esteemed colleagues in the focus of people. However, which is being sent by the state when we talk about EU funds, a tender that starts with the application on June 1st so that the day before that tender will be blocked, or cancelled, and we know that it was the people who wrote the applications for the competition and spent what is most precious, and that is their time to cancel the competition, that our fellow citizens have spent their time, and since they have not reported consultants very likely until the application is not announced again, the tender will not be awarded and that they will not receive any money, or will not be paid for the part they have done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113949	Thank you very much. We often behave and compare ourselves in thinking and action with some countries that measure their population to tens of millions, so tens of millions of people. There are 3 million and 800 million of us, 3 million of us, and 800 of us would say a little more serious city in the EU, not to mention at the world level. Not even, not so many people in the suburbs, say, according to some recent data from Moscow that we so often mention were some 13 million people. Well, let's see what it's all about. And we often act like we're some kind of country. So we know everything and we know exactly how many people we have who are willing to do certain projects and who can do them. We also know exactly what happens to individual competitions and we stare at it, we read in the papers. Then we're all surprised how it happened. What's the surprise when we know in advance that it's gonna happen and then we don't need to be surprised? where we are on the EU scale. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That doesn't surprise us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113950	Next replica, respected Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113951	Your Honor, we've heard various findings here, among other things, we've heard the conclusion that we don't have a strategy. But we can't have a strategy when we don't have goals. We'll set a strategy when we have goals. So we'll have a strategy to achieve those goals and there's one problem. You've been nine years, nine years have passed, and we still don't have enough experts to design implications projects for EU funds. That's scary! The state does not participate in helping entrepreneurs, but makes it difficult for them with its conditions, with its demands ahead of them. Instead of coming to them, helping them to make this project as fast and quality as possible, to make it easier to apply, to get easier resources. No, they and with various requirements conditions even after that satire at the bottom. And then plus that and then we're still going, let's go with the fastest finger. Which means the fastest finger. These are the best projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113952	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Pavić. So these are some things that are absolutely fact and I always kind of have an understanding so I say ok. We were on our way, so we slowed down, so we were sloppy, so we were sloppy, so we did not do this, so we did not do it. But now we know everything. After nine years we know everything, we know what our critical points are, we know what our weakest part is, and we know what we need to improve it. I was there in 2012, 2013 in Poland, where the Poles boasted that they had used EU funds and what they had done. The fact is that their situation was equipped with infrastructure and everything else was worse than we had at the time on the highways in 2013, we had a lot of it, but then they said what the role of the state was about agriculture and farmers. The state funded people who visited and worked gatherings and visited individual villages to educate them and prepare them for the use of EU funds. What did we do? Sittin' around with their thumbs. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113953	Next is an individual discussion of the respected Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113954	Before I refer to the irregularities mentioned in this report, I think it's the right thing to do, given that questions are asked to reflect a little bit on the current situation, so the affair is almost, and we can say, the fastest finger. When new ministers came in what euphemism called refreshment or perhaps by blowing up the current government, I warned that their key problem would be that they would inherit projects of previous ministers that had to leave precisely because of suspicion of corruption within their sectors. And this cancellation of the fastest finger ahead of the quickest finger showing up so clearly that it really raises the question of the threat of those who have now found themselves in an awkward situation because they have already planned to apply to the projects and have done all the necessary work previously, they can only interpret it in one way, and that everything has already been agreed in advance and that the current minister is still fresh to his chair and fresh memories of the proximity of Remetinca, which opens with HDZ's ministerial positions, however, decided to suspend previous agreements of awareness and himself in the future that he could suffer from previous agreements that would eventually manifest through the malversions of the possible institution of the fastest finger that the funds in these projects should be implemented. So, in some ways, the fact that he suspended it was his public recognition that he discovered possible malfeasance. He did not think of the need to improve the way the funds were allocated overnight, but he was likely aware that he had inherited something that would cause him to suffer in the future. And it's probably not the only thing he inherited, so we'll see what kind of epilogue this whole situation is going to be. When we talk about the allocation of funds here, perhaps the most important problem that will yet meet us in the future in its full scope, the problem of material deprivation could only be found in one part, and that is the part that relates to the financing of meals for children coming from a particularly bad socio economic situation. However, that is not enough, we here should very much extend that network and allow the allocation of funds and find an allocation not only for children but also for all others built in view of the future and winter that awaits us because of these inflationary pressures. And I will also warn about what I warned earlier when I was talking about other laws, about how to allocate funds for material depression that some things should be dealt with systematically, rather than depending on eu funds when it comes to children. When we talk about other irregularities here, I believe that it is at least worth noting some more that are possible in Croatia when they are allocating eu funds, and they are listed within this report. So, we have discriminatory technical specifications because of the unwarranted use of the brand name of the contracting authorities, imagine, and I will continue to criticise this idea of abstractally speaking about some contracting authorities instead of having concrete projects and people responsible for these irregularities, and then perhaps in the future someone would have more trouble repeating the same thing. The contracting authority unnecessarily referred to a particular producer even though he added an expression of equal value. In particular, it was possible to describe these items precisely, clearly and unequivocally without reference to a specific producer. So imagine a contest that points to a particular producer when it's so obvious. Furthermore, the contracting authority prescribed mandatory reasons for excluding the tenderer in the tendering documentation. Indeed, sometimes our people are very creative when it comes to making it possible, through institutions, to grant funds on behalf of a public tender or a public offering, and independently of it. And these are good examples of what it looked like in practice, I'm just saying there should be a list of shame we should have seen exactly who it was because there are often large projects and large companies involved when it comes to the allocation of eu funds. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113955	Replica, dear Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113956	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. All of us in our midst are monitoring how funds are withdrawn as these funds are invested, etc. And then, let's say, you come across, no matter what county, on some project that is 85% out of eu funds, 15% own and the project might not know 65 million kuna and then it turns out that that amount is about 14 million kunas of unrecognized costs. How would you interpret that? Is this a lack of educated people who could prepare projects in quality control? Was it with any intention of sneaking around somewhere or sneaking around? How would you interpret such imbalances in the means that I have brought here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113957	Both with an emphasis on this, unfortunately. The big problem that is being repeated year after year, and it is also called lessons within some of the funds from which EU funds are being attracted, is that the less environment, the poorer units of local self-government really don't have financial capacity for serious eu projects, since they have to co-finance part of it themselves or are limited in view of the loans they can get to only part of these projects. One part is certainly related to ignorance, and this is repeated if we look at the earlier reporting period since 2014 and beyond where we have had a resulting large problem of paying for consulting services which have also been awarded in different ways by different keys and have been too large. And the third, of course, is that there is still awareness in us that eu funds are not our own, so whoever takes it well has taken it well, hasn't damaged anyone, which is very wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113958	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113959	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honors Minister. I am sorry that here are the tenacious members of the ruling majority who do not want to accept that they need to read the documentation and that they need those documents and laws that we have received here for reading and commenting that they should be critical of them. Yesterday, I listed several laws that we are here, unfortunately, it turns out that only everyone voted them, and we didn't, which were voted by the ruling majority, which are simply unimplementable in practice. And yesterday we had one of those laws again. Today we have a report from which we should learn something. Namely, in that report you have chapters where you write learned lessons, but it is evident that you learn absolutely nothing from these lessons. It keeps talking about 2013, here are colleagues again today talking about 2013, which was withdrawn in 2013, 2014. It was actually what was projected before that. And what's left of the project? Nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, Was there perhaps a ready-made information system for reporting the project? It's not. It was meant to be built, but before that, we had to build systems in order to meet the conditions for us to join the EU at all. I was part of it, and I know what I'm talking about, these are facts that are easily verifiable. Therefore, there was no condition for us to report to competitions, there was no condition to withdraw money from funds. Why? Because it wasn't done before. And I don't want to hurt the HDZ government, nor want to praise the SDP government, but we have to put things in place to learn something about the future. Are we going to withdraw these funds more effectively in the future, or are we going to negotiate these funds more efficiently or are we going to be as bad as we are in Europe so far? The October 2021 report said that we were the worst in Europe, we had 52% of the funds agreed, and we were only paid 13% of the funds, so on the eu projects pages. That's not a lie, that's the European Commission's data. We have some of our data that's probably more up-to-date, so now these percentages are a little bit bigger, but still that's bad, that's not good. Did we set goals as a state? Here we bring even NPOO, did we say which county, where we're going to develop what? Are we and how are we going to accomplish this, how are we going to come to what we want to develop? We didn't. And then even when we're reporting for money from the eu funds, then we still have the fastest finger. Instead of people working on eu funds meeting to help these entrepreneurs who want to work, to advise them on how to build these projects, to help them. No, after that, they push them to the fastest finger. And what's going on? We have what we have, and I actually have very little. Today, the minister answered my question about the number of new jobs. Thank you, we've heard that it's open from which you said 2018. Up until now, about 7,000 new jobs in these companies. But is that enough? It's not. Why not? So... moved 400,000 people. If they had jobs in Croatia, if they had normal wages, we would stay here, if we had well-set goals, if we had a strategy for these goals, if our goal was one of the goals of opening jobs, of hiring our young people would not go abroad. And then we wonder what's going to happen to us tomorrow, and that's what we rightly ask ourselves. If we continue this way, unless we intend to hire new people on these projects, unless we intend to go out in the field and our entrepreneurs, our stakeholders in the eu funds or the money in the EU funds to help on the ground and direct them in which direction these funds should go, what should be done and how they should be done, in which direction they should be developed, we will achieve nothing. They will and these funds will be spent and, of course, five years will be those companies active or the facilities they built will be active, and then my dear wherever they go. Whether these companies will survive, whether these facilities are owned or owned by someone else, nobody cares anymore, and new employees are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113960	Here we have a few replicas, the first one is Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113961	When we look at the very problems that we have been facing for many years who can access the funds in some way given the capacity of a single unit of local self-government, do you think that the state should do more to facilitate the poorer units of local self-government that they can actually report these projects and what we should do in particular and whether we actually have a situation that, in this way, they do not have the resources, which are largely dependent on their own participation, favours exclusively the richer units of local self-government, in fact the key question is how to prevent it, the poorer ones do not have the capacity again, in terms of the people to make quality reports of projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113962	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113963	Not only does it favor the unit of local.../incomprehensible/... richer units of local self-government, but it also favors richer entrepreneurs, those who have more money. They can apply more easily. Why? Because I can pay for consultants. The consultants are expensive, unfortunately, educated by the state to work in our agencies, state agencies,... The ministries, however, when it comes to getting to work, wages are low and they go to private agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what colleague Dark-Taritash was talking about earlier. And there's our problem. And after that, this man who works at the ministry for six, seven, eight thousand kuna, works at the private agency for twice as much money. But after that, the problem is for the entrepreneur to pay for it, but the problem is also for the poor local self-government unit to pay for it because that money simply doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113964	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113965	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavić, you are in your individual debate, as the topic of the fastest finger drags through all the time. Imagine the criterion di is the criterion to get something, so to get something, you have to invest something, you have to invest knowledge, you have to invest energy, you have to do well, you have to apply it, it's criteria to me, and the criterion becomes your fastest finger, and we all know that, and we all know that, and I have a feeling that those who might be able to stop it from dying. Why are they staring so hard? Because that's how those who don't do the job right, but are very close to the fire and are getting better warm, instead of having that criterion the fastest finger because it wasn't, this was just one contest, according to that criterion, the fastest finger for the Energy Efficiency Fund, when it comes to energy efficiency, and then all the resources that are available are for those who applied in the first 16 seconds. This, the fastest finger must not be a criterion, the fastest finger must only be the criteria of some others, but certainly not for providing and withdrawing certain EU-related funds, but also for time long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113966	The answer of a respected representative, please. [[Intruder: Thank you for giving me the chance to do it a little...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113967	Let me get this straight, I'm comparing it to the contest in which it's being called, which is being called for jobs, and then it says that the advantage comes from the one who offered the lowest price. Because it's the one who invented the competition the easiest way to do it. However, there is a law on public procurement and the possibility of being the most favourable offer. E, whether the most favourable offer needs to be developed, it is necessary to examine, to point. The same is true of applying to EU funds. In order for an entrepreneur or one who applies to receive money when his offer is the most favourable, the best, the best, someone who knows, who knows the matter to sit down and evaluate it. When access is the fastest finger, then it's gone. And what's going on here? It's not just the one who's fastest, it's the one who has the IT skills. There's another problem nobody's talking about in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113968	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113969	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So we heard there's a whole series of problems here about withdrawing funds, exploiting funds, applying to competitions. You mentioned how much we could use this chapter that stands here, the lessons learned. So here's one of the items that says that in these lessons learned should apply regional approach, a little more weight actually put on planning, include a wider circle of stakeholders. How many states and units of regional self-government will manage to learn and apply in the future, and how satisfied are you with the withdrawal of funds in your county? I've been looking a little bit at operational programs of effective human potential, competitiveness, cohesion, rural development program, Krapina-Zagorje County is one of, we'd say, more developed, not so small, but actually not some big percentage that pulls funds, how happy are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113970	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113971	Here, let me start at the end. I mean, no matter how much money the grant has been withdrawn, it's too little, no matter what county it is. Perhaps there may also be a possibility that in some counties there is no need for such funds, and then it does not apply to these funds, there may be needs for others, for other investments, and then there is an investment there. But if we had learned something, then it wouldn't have written in there, but we would have, so in the future we'd do it, that, that, and that, and we shouldn't, because it shouldn't be better for anyone. If it were written in from the next one, I don't know, we're going to apply that regional principle, we're going to score differently, we're going to have goals, we're going to have strategies, we're going to know exactly who will, or who can, how, why, why, what we're going to do after that, what goals we're going to achieve, and then that would be a little different. Like this, we should, uh, hardly do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113972	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113973	Dear colleague, in your statement, you said that the state must direct entrepreneurs and that I will agree in part. I think there should still be one synergy between the state and entrepreneurs in order to make the state through the laws and rules it has, but it must listen to entrepreneurs and see how to simplify the processes in order to facilitate precisely those entrepreneurs who appear in competitions. That's what I think we can see from the quickest finger. It should definitely be pointed out that there have been some discussions between the competent ministries and entrepreneurs, however, it is also clear that entrepreneurs continue to rebel and that there are certain problems that have simply not been solved despite numerous indications, one of these is the fastest finger, here today we heard that ić will be revised or will change the way, but it is too late because we are still suffering from child diseases from 7-8.g. And those diseases are not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113974	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113975	Yes, unfortunately, here we are today only saying this to the minister, it's not her fault, it's the system. I hope that she will convey these remarks and our suggestions to the rest of the government and then systematically approach problem solving because we currently have a problem. I don't know if we're going to make it for the next how many months we have ahead of us to withdraw all the other funds, so we still need to contract 42, 48% of the funds, without talking about the cost that needs to be... Because that's a big problem. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's do something and move on, let's hire other people, let's have a different approach to entrepreneurs, to OPGs, because these poor people, especially those who work inside the family, they don't have time to write projects, we go out in the field, we help them out, we write them down, we push them on, and they'll next time help someone else because they'll have opportunities because the processes are automated, they're robotized, they're computerized, and then they'll have more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113976	Thank you, thank you very much. Now we're going back to our point that we just broke up. And now they will speak individually to the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113978	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm going to pick up where my colleague Pavic ended up before me and say that certainly everything we're talking about when we talk about withdrawing EU funds can't just blame the minister because in the past term of government means those 4 years and this 2 years of the government's term, it means 6 years, you're 3 ministers, which means that on average every 2 years they change so I don't know if you have to worry, but that's what we'll see. However, it also says a lot, because if our ruling structure is unstable and we have such frequent changes in ministries, the question of how and how these ministries themselves will work is raised. Just like when we talk about this contest that was annulled from the Ministry of Economy you can hardly do, we can point the finger at the current minister who has also just arrived. And I know it's funny to the rulings even though there are few, but you can see how much you've been defending everything that's going on and everything that we're saying because you don't have anything to say. We heard in the Recovery and Resistance Fund that we are the best in Europe. Okay, so we've withdrawn, or we've arranged 9% of everything that's been offered. So we've made 600 million euros out of the 6.3 billion we have and we're the best in Europe. And if that's what we're not the best in Europe anyway, we're the least awful. We're the least terrible in that situation, and we've got the next 2. to arrange everything, we have called 9 tenders, one has been suspended, it is the current state of the web site, and the new envelope has started with the same children's diseases that we had and nothing has been done, you blame the government from 2011 to 2015 which was, which was, which introduced Croatia into the EU, we were part of that government, in 2013, we had the possibility, the start of using European funds until 2015 when you came to power, meaning year and a few days, two maximum. Well, if we're comparing it when we first started this 2nd year. Now we're in another financial envelope, so who's terrible, so you haven't done anything, and you're pointing your fingers in the other without shame, at something that was so much before, like, seven, eight, nine years, completely vague, completely vague. And we've heard today that it's going to simplify control, we definitely welcome it, we're going to see what direction it's going to go in, and I don't understand why it hasn't been done so far because we know that it's a very difficult thing to do because it's amazing that those who worked in European funds, I've been working with European funds what control issues they've been asking, that's what Alan Ford is. We welcome the announcements about the elimination of the fastest finger, but again we wonder why or, and he gave it to us here today only because we have affairs in recent weeks around the fastest finger. So you're 6 years old. Permanently in power and manage the European funds' ministries, already 6 years old. warns of the problems we have, and so does the quickest finger and nothing has been done. What has happened in recent weeks has happened in recent years and in recent years we have also warned in this conference and some previous representatives in the previous 9th meeting and absolutely nothing has been done. And to be honest, I doubt it'll be done. We talked about the development index, and that was also the problem with the enormity. We support and we are solid, we support even regional development, but we do not support even regional development in a way that cuts those that are developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113979	We have two replicas, the respected representative Maric has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113980	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, this is the last thing you say, I totally agree with it because here I come from Međimurje County which is quite high food for development and we are often cut off as to accessing some projects precisely because many of our municipalities are developed, and I completely agree with that. The second thing you said is it's very bad that more governments are guilty of their own failures, so we need to focus on what we have now and what can be done better. I've watched your county stand a little bit on this report, how happy are you with the EU's fund-raiser in your county, is it maximum in Istria County? I was just watching for the last year where this report applies, here's a text from the 4th month 2021, where the Municipality of Svetvinčenat thinks that the champion of the head of the population is here, so can Istria do better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113981	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113982	Thank you, Vice President, thank you for the replica, so we can definitely do better. The Svetvinčenat or Savičent, however you will, has definitely shown that a small municipality, when it has a quality structure, has the possibility of a quality withdrawal of EU funds, has, of course, been used for Castle Morosini, Grimani, which today definitely attracts people for a tourist purpose, but has definitely protected one legacy that the municipality has. As with many other counties, it was definitely something new for all of us and for the previous financial period, something that we had to get used to, but also educate, both entrepreneurs and local and regional self-government units and definitely at this point what it is that we could be satisfied, but what we always had to do in Istria is that we had to, that we were too small to be average and that we had to strive for excellence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113983	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113984	Thank you, colleague Lerotić, for pointing out that the minister is very brief, the minister that the ministers have often changed in her portfolio. I agree that it is not necessarily her fault that this government treats its people like they are part of a flow water heater and I also think it is completely irrelevant whether some former minister has been removed because he was corrupt or because our problem is that the new minister doesn't have some kind of own vision and the idea of how things improve. When you were talking about the announcement of the elimination of the fastest finger, I think it's doubtless that this announcement is just to silence the anger of the public who sees how and in this allocation of funds actually suits someone in a premeditated and agreed, corrupt and corrupt way. Therefore, I think we have more reason to criticise here and these authorities now because they have no idea what and how to fix it than to go back to which the government has done more or less badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113985	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113986	Thank you, Vice President. Thanks for the line. So criticism when it's focused on solving the problem, not only to criticize and resist someone, and even if we do, even if we don't have the right arguments for it, and I definitely don't want to criticize someone because there are certain speculations, but we have concrete examples here that the system doesn't fit, and that's what we can see in practice, but that's what we can see and hear from entrepreneurs who are meeting with all this. We also had a recently cancelled tender for entrepreneurs in Banovina, otherwise the area affected by the earthquake where they even received a funding contract, which they even set out to spend their resources in order to withdraw them from European funds and European funds tomorrow, and the competition was simply interrupted, no one knows why and what it will be and what it will be, how entrepreneurs will survive it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113987	He will now speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Josip Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113988	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have heard a lot of opinions through the presentations and discussions by the motions of the Minister, then the parliamentary clubs and individual colleagues and colleagues, a lot of views on the subject of government reports on the use of European and structural funds, investment funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021. Col. Marko Pavić gave an exhaustive view and an analysis of the report in question, the position of the HDZ Representatives Club and I have no intention of repeating everything he has already said. But I think that in this final statement, it is good and it is necessary to point out again some uncontestable facts. In fact, we heard that the Republic of Croatia is from EU accession until 30 June '21. In the same period, around 68 billion were paid from the European budget of the Republic of Croatia, while some 6.17 billion were paid in the relevant mid-term in 2021. Compared to the previous reporting period, it is important to note that the biggest progress has been made in the negotiations under the Maritime and Fisheries Operational Programme, where we have an increase in negotiations of over 23%. And as regards the payment, the biggest progress has been made under the operational programme of effective human potential with an increase in payments of more than 33.86%. As regards the European Structural Investment Funds, the change in the contract index for that half-year is 7.04% and payments are shown to be 22.63%. It is also important to refer to modified operational programmes of competitiveness and cohesion and effective human potential where the introduction of new or changing existing priority axes to strengthen crisis recovery in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and the preparation for a green digital and resilient recovery of the economy, then the recovery of damage from earthquakes where we have also provided 530m euros in aid to the economy through a job conservation support measure. In the section relating to the rural development programme from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development over this reporting period, 10 invitations to tender for the total amount of €963 million of which were the most individual competitions under measure 7. Furthermore, in the framework of an operational programme for maritime and fisheries from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, about 42.55m euros were provided for 427 grant decisions and payments were made for around 11.29m euros. Finally, it is important to note that since 30 June 2021 EU funds have been agreed on 12.93 billion euros out of 10.7 billion euros allocated, accounting for over 120% agreed, 120% agreed projects, and total payments are about 57%. It is also important to note for new programming, a new financial period that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided on operational programmes. Three operational programs, so I don't single-handedly quote them here. And maybe another little thing, if it's a little something. My small town, Drnis city in the heart of the Sibenik-Knin County, has so far implemented 23 EU-funded projects which I certainly couldn't have done without these funds, and therefore we rightly say that the European funds run not only Drnis but also the whole of Croatia. As already stated, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this governmental report on the use of EU structural and investment funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113989	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, is not there, losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS, finally respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113990	I hope this respect wasn't too difficult for you to say. So, if we talk about this report, we can really stick to statistics and figures, and we can look at it as Croatian citizens see it at the level of results. The results are missing. This is reflected in the fact that the number of people at risk of poverty is growing in Croatia, and the main perspective of our young generations, our high school students and students is that they still look elsewhere for their happiness and fate. When we talk about the culprits about spending EU funds in the wrong way or investing in wrong purposes, so-called. Four horsemen of the apocalypse. One of them is those who have corrupt intentions, we talked about it when we had a discussion about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and about what the funds that were withdrawn from the project were all spent on. Others in turn would be those who have some own interest which in itself is not corrupt, it is not illegal, but is solely privately motivated not to contribute in any way to any broader good. We often have such examples in tourism that are depicted, for example, in the devastation of the coast, the maritime and other public goods. The third order would be those who are simply incompetent in power, those who are unable to identify the problem, and neither the problem of methodology nor the way of applying to European projects, and only when some big affair ends in the media remember that the fastest finger method needs to be changed, but the worst of these four horsemen of the apocalypse would be hypocrites, are those who call for patriotism, among other things, that demographics are the main and key problem to be solved, very often when we talk about some world-wide topics affecting fundamental human rights as they are described in both the Croatian Constitution and international documents, and that they are making concerns about the rights of the child at all. I will look specifically at the project, the Srebrenica project for which, on a successful EU project, has allocated its 60m-euro project, or about half a million kuna, which is now in the almost terminal phase of collapse, and the reason for the collapse is the corruption and carelessness of the state, and perhaps the failure of the city's authorities. The fact is that the works have been suspended, the fact that it is not the fault of those who designed the project, is the fact that it should have been the best and the biggest and only such translation centre in Europe, the fact is that it should have been used to treat our severely ill children who have no place to be treated right now because in the Croatian hospitals there is nothing invested for 10 years, and even after the earthquake, the fact is that through this project our people who have become internationally recognised scientists who would have a place to go back and their expertise and expertise to be used to treat themselves here and in a way that in the process of treatment, their parents and their loved ones have become some kind of moral and emotional support. We find out from the media that there are actually some speculators whose interests are decided somewhere in the shadows, they are part of those who see their potential in real estate business on the property of Brestovac, these are people who come from scientific circles, and they are, for example, in the structures of the rib itself and many others who will find something for themselves by dividing the project Srebrnjak into different interesting parts, to reach other people's excellence because they do not have their own. And what does the government do? The government is doing nothing although there is a possibility that, through the setting and approval of the deadline extension requirements, this project is still being saved and there are several ministries that can have a key and decisive word, one is the Ministry of Science, which is also a signator of some contracts, but also a ministry whose resolution minister is sitting behind me. As long as we don't solve the problem and the question of the Srebrenica project, all the rest of the talk about withdrawing funds from the European funds for me is simply a beautiful, colorful lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113991	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister of regional development and EU funds, Natasa Tramišak, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113992	Thank you, Your Honor, for your esteemed chairman-in-chief-in-chief-in-Office. For the final word, I think it is good to repeat once again everything that has already been said and introduced, but also look back at some of the comments that are in individual exhibitions. So, we discussed the report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and EU pre-accession assistance programmes from 1 January to 30 June 2021, but of course it was a year after all the coordination and opinions processes with all the bodies were completed, the projects continued to be implemented, the funds continued to be exploited and we are now recording some different figures and results. It is also important to mention again that of the 10.7 billion euros available to the Republic of Croatia during the period 2014-2020 which we are still using by the end of 2023. that the new generation and EU funds are added to this, and we have more than 12 billion euros at our disposal. By 30 June 2021 In total, 6 billion euros were agreed, more than 57% of the funds and certified to the European Commission by more than 5 billion euros and more than 47.7% of the funds. However, we did not point out that when we compared this to the period from the previous report or the reference period in the previous year there was an increase of 20%, so 20% was achieved in those years of growth in the use of ESIF funds. So these figures also speak for themselves, but we have continued with all processes to speed up the use of funds and reach maximum possible figures, and to this day we are recording the number of, the payment of more than 71% of the funds and more than 58% of the certification to the European Commission. In the last 2 years. To sum up, more than 35% of the funds were used only in the last 2 years, and we came from 37% in June 2020 to 71% today. This really says that all processes are accelerated, that the dynamics of project realization are improved and that adequately how users realise their projects and manage to verify costs. According to the source... We checked it here during and the presentation of parliamentary representatives and I have a printed table on me, I think it's best to look at it, really numbers say that we are on average EU Member States 63% and this is the data from 31 December 2021, we are now growing still and we have skipped 9 EU Member States and we are no longer at the beginning, we are currently in 19th place, we need to be even better and faster, and we all agree, however, the 2014-2020 period and all those rules set in '15. And in '16. That's how we have to finish the period. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't usually have a practice of going back a lot, so I won't do it now and I haven't done it before, and I've seen what we can do in the future. This period brings an end, we will see how successful we will be and how we will implement all these projects that and major strategic projects have already been predefined in the financial envelope and communicated in 2014 to the Commission. It took two, three, somewhere and four years to produce project technical documentation because they didn't have it at the time, to run processes, contracts and public procurement and we came in phase that some of these projects would have to be phased into a new programming period. There are rules laid down by the European Commission regulation under which conditions the project can be phased. In the first place he must have two stages. It must be so approved by the European Commission and this is about these major projects. All projects that can ensure this will, of course, be supported to complete this second phase of the project in a new period. However, it is important to mention once again that those projects that will not be completed, those that will not be realised from this period will not be able to be withdrawn. Therefore, EU funds are not allocated to countries in advance. The envelope is secured, allocations are provided, but we can only withdraw funds from the European budget when the projects are completed. None of these projects received funds by signing a grant agreement. There are both conditions and obligations and what users are obliged to do, which is to implement legally, purposefully and in accordance with the rules of the project as a whole in order to reach grants. There's a possibility of pre-financing. All pre-financing goes to the burden of the state budget not from EU funds. Under which criteria and conditions are paid, the dynamics of the realisation of the project itself are monitored in order not to pose too many risks for then recovery requirements unless the project is completed. So these are all the procedures that exist in EU funds. There are also common national rules which are defined at the beginning of the implementation of the very perspective that I repeat cannot go back, change these rules significantly. What we can do is now taught things, experiences and new Public Procurement Act from 2017, practice in the application of the law itself, see what things we can improve in the new period. I'm sure that's what it's all about. One of the things is the methodology of how and how calls can be called, long-term calls that, due to the great interest of the applicant, turn into the fastest finger. It will not be provided for in the new methodology for the multiannual financial framework. What the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is doing and where the managing bodies are and exactly the multiannual financial framework. Therefore, these new programmes, which are mentioned several times in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, the integrated territorial programme in the new period, will no longer be envisaged. The previous period from which both the rest and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan rested on the old rules, which unfortunately recognised this methodology as something which could quickly allocate resources to users. Since there are certain indications that it is not the most adequate way, that there are doubts about the transparency of the allocation of funds my personal position was immediately upon the arrival of the Ministry of Regional Development, that the Ministry of Regional Development will not call such calls and give consent to them. Following what happened in an invitation to Petrinja after I found that the ministry used an old sprawl of a similar call, and the call turned into the fastest finger that was the reason for the cancellation of the call itself. According to this methodology, we were unable to evaluate all the project applications received and the call was annulled for this reason. Because of the sensitivity of the area and because of the importance of further investment in the area itself in order to revitalise not only from the earthquakes and from the lagging they have, we have re-scheduled a new call with no more 15 but now 115 million kunas because it was a very great interest of the applicant. I expect it'll be such an interest again. There are now qualitative criteria and all projects will enter the evaluation. That's the method we have to work on. Evidence that the administrative capacity, no matter how we know we need to improve it and that we need to strengthen the bodies in the system, can be re-distributed by the re-distribution it was... Last year announced in May, the modality of the temporary call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, according to this modality where all project applications are taken into account and evaluated, 30 days lasted, 863 project applications arrived at the call. All were processed by the end of August, objections were processed in September and October, more than 200 and some objections and 273 contracts were signed worth billions of kuna for the manufacturing industry. So, in a very short period of time, all processes have been completed. This is proof that the bodies can do and that we no longer need to make any calls on the modality of the fastest finger to be more effective. It's something he's really getting ready for right now. It will take effect with a new multiannual financial framework. When we also talk about the programming process and we really need time and it's important, we'd like to get the first calls started as soon as possible. The regional ministry prepared drafts in June last year and were sent to the European Commission. However, the processes in the European Commission take as long as they last and are procedures that we cannot change, and no other Member State is in the same situation as all other countries. In April we submitted mature draft programming documents, we received CCA numbers from the European Commission for a partnership agreement. And our two regional operational programs that say we're in the final stage. During this month, we will answer some questions of a technical nature which the Commission is looking for around the European Social Fund and the Ministry of Labour and Pensions which must answer these questions and after that we have completed the processes. In parallel with this, while the programming process was under way, we were not waiting for plans and industrial transitions of regions that are very important for the withdrawal of a new perspective precisely in the direction of entrepreneurs where in some ways there was communication that we should give advantages to the underdeveloped, then that we should give advantages to the developed where regional potentials are recognised in accordance with quality, where entrepreneurs are expected to network together in those industries that are recognised as pro-pulsant in industrial niches that can significantly raise the development of certain regions. All these regions now have their allocation of funds and I believe that this will also be a good way to use them for entrepreneurs, where they are involved in the process together with us. It is also important here to mention that in February we already called for them to participate in the creation of these 506m euros, we had more than 1200 entrepreneurs who responded to the call for participation in the preparation of these documents and action plans. So, not for the allocation of funds, but to participate with us in creating in which direction and how we will call these funds. It is a participatory approach that has not been developed in the Republic of Croatia so far. So all processes in the Ministry of the Regional and New Programmes are being prepared and done as it should be. We have also abandoned the policies of selecting certain undeveloped areas. Here there were also mentions of why we have more and these cities precisely for the reason that small cities that are the county’s headquarters perform large administrative tasks for their county area, have their special responsibilities as headquarters and cultural and educational life of the area and county. They are also between rural and urban environments, but to have the opportunity to create their strategic projects. An additional 406m euros has been allocated for undeveloped areas, mountain-mounted and assisted areas where they are given great opportunities and in the new operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, and such a territorial approach has been praised by the European Commission because we are with them in regular communication on this. In addition, when we talk about whether we've lost some funds. Croatia has met its goals every year n+3, so we have verified according to the commission the costs we used and we have fulfilled what we are given to make maximum use of the perspective by the end of the period and the acceptable cost. For this year, we have three billion kunas left to be verified. We are planning to verify 3 billion kuna by the end of June, early July of this year and we really believe that again as before in the autumn we will have and fulfilled n+3 and something and more than that we plan to do. I note once again, we cannot simply pay off all these costs if the projects are not implemented and done and the users on their own do not implement all those activities they have committed in their contracts. They must also provide administrative capacity and fiscal capacity, simply so the rules of the EU funds work. There's no other body that can do for them. We can help them in this process in these ways, which is to help them with pre-financing of part of the activity. What was certainly the role of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the ministries, which was to ensure the possibility of funding their projects, to call, to award contracts, and then indeed to do their part. I certainly commend the local, regional level that has drawn this perspective where the rapid dynamics of project realization are seen, although we know that they are also faced with limited financial opportunities, that it is not easy to implement large projects, but all those projects that are actually closest to their citizens, such as kindergartens and different homes and investments in energy renovations and schools and homes of health and the construction of business business infrastructure, so all those projects that are truly visible throughout the Republic of Croatia, they have implemented them, they end them, and they are the ones who will be the most efficient in using these, these grants and these financial envelopes. In addition, what might have to be mentioned once more is that the management and control system is changing for the period 2021-2027 precisely because of the consolidation of the system and the simulation and improvement of the behaviour of our bodies and the acceleration of the use of EU funds, we are reducing the intermediate bodies of level 2, a clear separation of all functions of the body. And I believe that in a new perspective as soon as we get the consent of the European Commission we will go ready. We know that there are many prepared projects already now with project technical documentation so we expect a major response to the first calls and a much better and more successful absorption of the funds at the start. However, we cannot expect, of course, when the envelope is started and some period as we could not have expected a few years ago that 100% utilisation is immediately. It comes at the end of the period, then it's being watched how much something was used. So this data, which is about 57% for June 2021, we see that we are moving on average on the EU, especially now that we are moving significantly forward, and in two years 35% of the use was a major task. Here I say it is not only the Ministry of Regional Development and the SAFU and the HAMAC BICRO and the Fund and the Water, but in fact all those users who have managed to implement their projects in accordance with the Treaties, in accordance with the legislative regulations and which we are rapidly confirming towards the European Commission. So we're all part of a better way of taking advantage of the opportunities we're offered. And lastly, I will just say that I agree with the majority that we should look not only at EU funds, these are opportunities, these are the means that can help us improve the development of the Republic of Croatia, but they are not the only ones who need to serve it. And in the new period after 2027, we need to strive to be a state that will no longer be dependent solely on cohesion policy. We have this opportunity, but we really have to work together on it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113993	We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113994	Thank you. Minister, I thank you first of all for still holding this final statement on this report in view of such a small number of parliamentary deputies. The only thing you haven't touched is really this Silverstone project. You know for a fact that one resolute ministry is a co-signator of the contract. I believe that you are familiar with the fact that in 2019, a feasibility study and cost-benefit analysis was made, and then all the numbers showed that the project was very self-sustainable and cost-effective. Today, we have a problem that is very acute, and I think it affects the important national interests or destroys them if the project itself fails. So I'm asking you right now if you intend to do anything, can you talk to your colleagues in the government and what are you actually going to do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113995	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113996	Dear MPs, I can tell you from the point of view of the information I have relating to the teaching project. And this is that the whole story of the project of the Transcian Centre for Children's Medicine was started in 2011, and then as a plan for the Srebrenica Children's Hospital, it entered the list of strategic projects for the period 2014-2020. Mostly that project-technical documentation for building a new building that was supposed to be the center along with the existing facility of a children's hospital. That there are more than a hundred scientists who should work at the centre and more than 140 scientific papers listed in the feasibility study. Unfortunately, from the moment the grant contract was signed in 2019, we are talking about a project of around 440 million kuna, 367 grants that could have been allocated to the project so far that none of the indicators, that information that I currently have and that the project encountered significant problems in the realization of construction works, that he was very late in the process of getting himself, and then next, if I may finish. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113997	Thank you very much, that is, we have time limits, thank you very much, this is the end of the...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113998	We'll answer if you want to and after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-03-0.u113999	This will end with today's work, we will continue again on Wednesday 8 June at 9:30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 214. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 14.20 p.m.
