ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102737	Good morning, respected MPs and MPs. Before we start taking a stand, there's only one thing. Based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice propose that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Council and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Any objections? If he doesn't, then we'll have a united discussion. Second in line Advocacy Club for the Righteous Croatia and esteemed colleague Vrkljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102802	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues of the Constitutional Court's decision on the referendum of the recent and a statement that the issue is not in line with the Constitution and the argument that the Committee's organisation has selectively approached the proposed amendment to Article 17(1). The constitution of the Republic of Croatia has led to the conclusion that a referendum is prohibited. This led Croatian society into a deep identity crisis, on the one hand there is power with its institutions, and on the other hand there is a Croatian people. The result is a deep political and economic crisis. The question arises that the mistrust of the people in institutions has resulted in a failure to go to elections, mass emigration and demographic breakdown, the question is, what is the cause of the crisis, who is instigating the crisis and who is benefiting from the crisis? '91. The Croatian people answered two main questions, a referendum on the position of the Republic of Croatia and the first free elections won the civil Croatian option over the communist system, '95. Croatia has won both military and freed Croatia. Today in 2022. what happened to the Croatian people in '91. bring down communism? Today, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the president of the constitutional court we were just talking about, and all the judges of the constitutional court are children of communist powers or participated in the work and life of the communist Croatia and Yugoslavia, not to mention ministers, MPs and various institutions in the Republic of Croatia. This attitude of force on the political map is a political fraud of the Croatian people, such a division of the highest political positions in the Republic of Croatia is the result of political corruption and does not correspond to the real will of the Croatian people. Civil Croatia lost its political battle with HDZ and SDP. What's left of Tudjman's reconciliation, legacy? HDZ was supposed to be a civil political option, but cleaned humane from the civil option, only former communists and their children remained from radicalism and old age. Croatian people 30. The decision of the Constitutional Court is deeply unfair, ideologically colored and is in the function of safeguarding and protecting the political centres of power that could have been expected. This decision is the result of the occupation of institutions and the attempt to obstruct democracy. This is an attempt to deprive the Croatian people of the right to political emancipation. Despite all of Milanovic's initiative to abolish the constitutional court is politically harmful. We are an EU member and all EU countries have a constitutional court unlike America, the United States, England and Australia. The Milanovic initiative hides in itself a conscious or unconscious push of the Croatian people into new conflicts and political war over a topic that should not be a topic. Therefore, I call on the ruling, particularly Prime Minister Plenkovic and particularly the president of the Jandrokovic Assembly, stop fighting ideological battles of failed political totalitarian systems, democratisation political processes in the Republic of Croatia, stop choosing and humanise political positions exclusively by the ideological communist key, give the opportunity to civil Croatia, allow the Croatian people to engage in political processes and reduce ideological conflicts, reduce tension in society. The HDZ alone has the levers of creating and closing ideological conflicts. Therefore, the occupation of institutions is the main if not the only cause economic downturn of the Republic of Croatia [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] eviction and demographic breakdown. [[Intruder: Thank you very much fellow Vrkljan]] Croatia needs... Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102803	Comrade Vrkljan, it's not the first time you've been false, I can't react to others, but I'll react to myself. To tell me that I'm a kid of Communism it won't work out for you because no one in my family has been in the party or the bigger one, so with these slanders, go to your place and talk to them around, not the pay phone. Now get out of the way, go where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102804	Did you officially sign up or speak as president of the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102805	Come on, please, come here, tell lies, lies, and pretend now that you're ignorant, go ahead and take your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102806	If you're commenting as speaker, we shouldn't be doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102807	Here you go, I told you. You're getting a warning now, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102808	So you can only speak as a parliamentary representative, and then you have to go out here and speak here as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102809	Comrade Vrkljan, please go to your place, I know what I'm saying, you can talk about others, let them defend themselves, but you won't say that I am a child of Communism because I have nothing to do with it, neither I nor my family. I'll see where you were until '90, I wouldn't be surprised if you were at the party, you're a typical specimen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102810	'91. I was in HV, and where were you, you had the same age for HV?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102811	Have a seat, have a seat, have a seat. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102812	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vrkljan, was injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure, insulting fellow MPs. I don't know where he got the data on the parents' résumés of individual HDZ officials? The question may be raised openly, Mr. President, whether he may have been a UDBA informant or a UDBA member, UDBA official, when he so sovereignly presents information on people from the communist system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102813	I wouldn't know, ask him like that in four eyes, he might admit to you, like this he probably won't. We are going to the 10th debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to a respected colleague, Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102906	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a move of 9 days from the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the referendum issues organised by two citizens' initiatives called Let's decide together and Enough of the headquarters behind which the Bridge stood, I would like to make several claims. All participants in the public and political life of Croatia who carefully read earlier decisions of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Civil Protection System Act, the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, the work of the Civil Protection Staff and the possible activation of art. 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, this is the decision of the Constitutional Court expected, correct and only possible. I will remember here that at the beginning of the signing of the referendum, I said that reading the questions made me feel that someone had misjudged the bridges or that they didn't understand their own text. Namely, in the proposed question that should have become a new article. 17. The Republic of Croatia Constitution, nothing changes. That the proposed question was in accordance with the Constitution and that a referendum should be carried out, and that it should receive the necessary majority, such a new article. 17. The Constitution resulting from the referendum shall not impose obligations on the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia or in such a new article. 17. A constitution that would now mean an epidemic or a pandemic and whether it would write the same as in the current article of the Constitution, which is that Parliament can, but also does not have to decide to restrict rights and freedom by a two-thirds majority. Namely, if the Parliament had wanted to, and now it could have led the epidemic to a natural disaster and made a decision from the Article. 17 The Constitution and the two-thirds majority limit rights and freedoms. But the organisers claimed the referendum otherwise. They claimed that by accepting the referendum issue, the parliament would commit itself to restricting human rights and freedom during the epidemic to a two-thirds majority. Therefore, the Constitutional Court, in keeping with the principle of rule of law, has properly assessed such a referendum issue which does not achieve the declared objective of the referendum as an anti-constitutional one. The decision on the non-constitutional nature of the second question on the legislative referendum is so clear and justified that there is no need to further explain it. However, what I would like to point out is that none of these decisions of the Constitutional Court, apart from the fact that in a professional sense they did not dispute their content, has answered two very simple questions. First, why no democratic state in Europe or in the world has in its parliaments taken two-thirds of the majority measures restricting human rights and freedoms, as advocated by the referendum initiatives and as requested by opposition parties in Croatia. And secondly, what about the implementation of epidemiological measures in the fight against the epidemic unless the required two-thirds majority were established in HS? In that case, would the Covid epidemic stop and await the outcome of our long-term debates and possibly the establishment of a two-thirds majority. I have raised such legitimate questions countless times in HS, in the past 27 months, stressing that the opposition in the event that it decides to restrict individual rights and freedoms in the establishment of a two-thirds majority could in any such opportunity blackmail and seek for its vote a concession for its particular, ideological and secular interests, programmes and projects. That it was like that and that I was right wasn't supposed to wait long. In fact, in the event of a possible amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia itself, in order to produce an orderly constitutional referendum for which the adoption of the same two-thirds majority, from a left-wing opposition, like to beat itself with an opposition left in the Assembly, is announced blackmail in the adoption of such an amendment to the Constitution unless their view on the termination of pregnancy is included in the Constitution. Such and similar blackmails and that we agreed to apply art. 17 The Constitution and the adoption of measures by a two-thirds majority, we would testify throughout the period of the epidemic and practically, would block the work of the Parliament, and thus the work of the Government and then we would be accused of failing to implement economic and social measures during this extremely demanding period of conditioned epidemic and today also of the energy and economic crisis. On the contrary, they insist on the opposition, we have taken different measures which we already recorded in the second year of the crisis, the two-digit growth of the Croatian economy, reached the highest number of employees and the lowest number of unemployed, increased 32% of the average salary, kept the credit rating, exited the excessive budget deficit procedure and macroeconomic imbalances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Simply, a series of state interventions The measure showed the inevitable role of the state in times of crisis. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102907	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102908	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238 disdaining MPs and also 400,000 signatories, in particular when talking about constitutional changes and a constitutional issue of which there is no comment but can be voted for or against. However, since the constitutional court is connected to you as best man, you do not convey the words of Sheparovic who essentially violated the constitution, he has broken the constitution along the way and Degraded the constitution and we lost essentially democracy. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102909	You're getting a warning. This was a replica. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102910	Thank you very much. A fellow Bull was injured by an officer. 238, he demeans us here and again tries to challenge the constitutional court and their solutions and decisions that they make because they have some of their own solutions and think that it is for the citizens of the smartest, but we are in a... political struggle and I think we are all working to the benefit of Croatian citizens. And what you're doing in the opposition is said today by your colleague in an interview, I think in the New List, that you're barking on the moon here if you've read my colleague Bull well, you're barking at the moon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102911	Continuing the controversy, you will receive a warning from your colleague, Boric. Come in, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102912	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. 238., he barks nonstop, he is simply like Plenkovic's snowflake only it is his task, he will be in the future likely government minister of beauty of reality because what he says is he who does not see, lives in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102913	Please. You get a second warning, you don't tell the MPs to bark, he says figuratively barks on the moon, and you tell him to bark, I experience it that you are what he says Okay, um... [[Intruder Bulj: The same figuratively.]] But I didn't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I gave you a warning because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, just so that it wouldn't stand up so that it wouldn't be spoken like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to the 5th debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u102999	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Ante Ćorusic, director of KBC Zagreb and president of the HDZ Committee on Health on Sunday, confirmed on public television that he had eventually removed a healthy ovary from the patient, declared his mistake with lasting consequences for the woman insignificant and also revealed the identity of the patient. In doing so, he said he confessed to the KBC legal service address because the compensation was paid by the insurance company. So there's no further. I'm gonna do this one more time because I don't think the public's heard enough. Mr. Ante Ćorušić, doctor, director of KBC Zagreb, president of the HDZ Committee on Public Television without blinking and showing any amount of shame, discomfort, desire for apology, a humbled demand for forgiveness, so without any regret, said that by mistake he had removed a healthy ovary instead of a sick patient's ovary, it was not important, anyway, the woman had given birth before and then discovered the identity of the unhappy woman. So no doubt, he discovered a doctor's secret. Are we women really you walking incubators? Walking incubators, that after we give birth, you can draw all the organs without warning because it no longer serves anything. Can you use our egg cells to freeze them, fertilize others? And that's what it was, and that's what the verdicts were. So where is the Croatian Medical Chamber now, where is the Doctor's Association? Why don't they react to the stand in which Corusic broke the medical code? Will the Chamber now initiate any action against him? She reacted only, here's what I noted, only the Association for Patients' Rights announced taking legal steps in both Croatia and Europe. I'll read it one more time, here's what the media says. So the woman whose doctor, so Mr. Corusic, removed a healthy ovary at the Petrovo clinic on 14 May 2014, was a young woman in her 30s. A month after Corusic's operation in St. The spirit was also removed by a sick ovary left by Corisic by mistake and very young lost both ovaries. She never went public with her story, and the odds are that she will do so today after Corusic further traumatized her on public television by revealing her last name. Her silence, as well as the relatively modest compensation of 83,000 kunas she agreed to in 2017, explains in part the fact that the woman is the victim of Corusic's mistake and herself employed in health care is probably lying in the circumstances that another member of her family is employed in health care and this clinic in Petrovo, which is part of KBC Zagreb, whose head is Ćorusic since 2016. So the doctor under the Hippocrates' oath made a mistake, I do not at all dispute that a mistake can happen, who is doing, who is doing this and who is wrong, apologizes for the mistake, admitted that he made a mistake, paid compensation, apologized to the wife, I don't know what, but this way, on public television, what quiet, cold faces would say in Split, and said that there was a woman I wronged the woman, so there was no connection of the woman, and so she gave birthed, didn't much harm. So what's this? You guys want to get up against this? We are truly walking incubators who when we do what we do, we give birth to one, two, three, four, five, six, ten children, I don't know how many children each of them can be used by our organs, that's what you can do. Well, I really don't know what else to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103000	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague of Bacic's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103001	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Puljak, injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Pulak forgets that Mr. Bojan Milosevic, former mayor of Split, otherwise the wife of a colleague, Puljak, threatened to drink blood to a young woman in Croatia. And it doesn't bother Mrs. Puljak, she, her, she doesn't ask her colleagues if they're going to stand up to such a bully but with him her husband is going to the Split mayor's election race again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103002	Thank you very much, it will be a reminder from my colleague Bacic this was a replica. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103003	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, a colleague here talks about the ovary and of course it's not right what happened, which is a very ugly thing. However, today's attack on Dr. Corusic is not because of her ovaries, but because he recently had lyphic attitudes because he was explicitly anti-abortion. And this is the threat of one progressive left to all those who are prolife.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103004	A colleague of Zekanovic's and this was a replica, so you get a warning. We are now going to the fourth debate on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta will speak to a respected colleague, Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103144	The peoples of the European Court ruled in favour of, of course, banks against damaged consumers, 55,000 citizens, families in the Franak case. The conversions made in Croatia by the European Court will not work for the consumers of the party bank because the Croatian government and the Croatian non-national bank did not stand behind their citizens. But the European Court of Justice for the same thing brought a positive opinion to the case of Franak for Poland and Hungary for their citizens. We are in the EU a community of peoples, states or equal, or this is a servant government that crawls in front of everyone, and evils there and where it cannot, to its people. How is it possible for the Hungarians of the European Court for the same matter in the case of Franak to pass the verdict positive on consumers for conversion and interest, which was illegal, criminal, against the interests of Croatia and the Croatian government, and we will not talk about the CNB. Is this how citizens are protected? Is protecting citizens in this case that these people have been protesting for years, demanding their rights, the procedure is obeying the Republic of Croatia. Where is the Croatian judiciary? Where's the Supreme Court? When it is obvious or best to rest this liter of hard work that has the Supreme Court, the constitutional court, all those who should stand in the protection of the rights of equality of Croatian citizens in the EU such as the Polish and Hungarians. And this isn't just the case of these 55,000 people where they've threatened the existence of their families, but that's also the case in agriculture. Agricultural land this year since the 7th month, I've given the law not yet come to order, will be able to buy foreigners. For example, Hungary will be able to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Hungary, but the Croats in Hungary will not be able to because it was conducted in the Hungarian referendum and the people said there is no sale, no sanctity, no sale of agricultural land. And in Croatia he will be able to. You have the law, Mr. President, put it in the process. Also, the relationship between our foreign policy, here, towards the Croats in BiH, the reptile, the crawl, the little mice. And in Brussels, you boast. The leaders of this unfortunate conflict and this aggression in Ukraine. But protect the interests of our citizens, not that. Neither in Croatia nor in BiH. Not in Serbia either. Protect our Croatian defenders, in this case pilots, where the Chetnik, the Seselev rookie, presses charges against Croatian pilots for the magnificent Liberation Operation Storm, pure as tears and legitimate rights of Croatian soldiers. We have a commission set up in 2016 to monitor Serbia's EU accession. In Plenkovic's government, it has not met once or once, and it was four times the inter-resor ministry, headed by Radman Grlic and the president of the Republic has his adviser in the commission that appointed him. They have not met once to monitor Serbia's legal jurisdiction in its legislation so that they can press charges and bring people to the ex-terrestrials of the former Yugoslavia. Chapters 23 and 4 are monitored and none is opened to them because this behaviour related to the part of the government, HDZ and SDSS, where part of the government during the Storm, a magnificent operation with Chetnik Vukic, mourns and hooks in Serbia. So how is it possible that a coalition partner in the biggest operation we celebrate? The defenders, he's at a Chetnik party. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103145	Thank you very much. Now, it's time for my colleague, Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103232	Thank you. Now here's a little return to the present and the future, I'm going to talk about maybe a little subject that's relevant for 2022, I'm going to talk about problems specifically, and this system problem of using funds from European funds, above all NPOOs. So, we have witnessed here a number of praises from the Prime Minister himself, but also from all HDZ members about the great success in obtaining all these billions that we have received from the European funds, which for the NPOO, which for the future financial perspective or the current financial perspective. It was a promise of course of hills and valleys, all of these funds were to transform Croatia, we were of course always making a skeptic because we were saying not enough means to get on paper, should and withdraw them, but more importantly use those projects that really transform our economy and our society and that allow greater quality of life for the citizens and what have we got? We have received this fact that the new financial perspective has not actually started for our citizens because we do not have operational programmes yet, let alone competitions, and that it has begun to be spent, that funds have started to be spent, or tenders from the NPOO have been opened. However, as many times as we have warned, prayed, kumili, do not spend funds from European funds or from the national budget for competitive projects using the fastest finger model, of course that for NPOO almost everything is programmed from open competitions to the fastest finger model, it is officially called a permanent open competition. So that that name would not fool you permanently open means a second and a half to 10 seconds depending on how many applicants there are because what happens in a permanent open competition? For example, it opens at 9:00 today, the number of applications that will be received if it is twice what will be financed at that time is closed, it usually happens in the first few seconds and you wonder how it is possible, here is how it is possible. It has been found that funds are allocated not by quality and not by whom more is needed in which region, etc. rather than who has better programmers because it is now clearly detected, and this seems to have become finally conscious and the Ministry of Economy that those who report in the first or seconds of the competition and get the funds are those who have well-programmed bots, so people don't register, bots are reported, so these tenders are illegal and these competitions will need to be annulled. So specifically, Mingor now knows that, Mingor has no possibility, no one has to understand each other at EU level has the ability to detect which of the projects was reported via Bot, or robot, because it simply cannot be detected, why? Because you can program the Bots by completely copying human application to a level to imitate a mouse click-level application so that it can be seen that someone did click on the mouse and did not click on the mouse, did not click to surrender. So it's a scam, to be clear, right? And now what's left of the Ministry of Economy? They remain, as well as all other ministries that distribute funds from the NPOO, only that the tender which has thus called for cancellation, that all future competitions be opened with clear deadlines until when applications are received, which are then evaluated according to their quality and get those who have the best projects, the most competitive and those who need the highest. Once again, we have serious fraud in the EU fund application system. The issue of using robots regulated and EU rules on the National Recovery and Resistance plan and clearly says such perpetrators should be punished, competitions should be annulled. So, cut the fastest finger once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103305	Now we're moving on to taking a stand. First in line Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, dear colleague Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103306	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the re-election of President Macron and the unprovoked aggression on Ukraine will further encourage the idea of an EU army. Over the centuries, there have been many attempts to assemble a multinational European army always under the leadership of a nation and for military purposes. The idea of an EU army has a minor military advantage. The purpose of this idea is political. Further European political integration. Brussels or Brussels is not the aim of a multinational coalition of wars, its intention is to absorb national capabilities in a single defence union under the auspices of Brussels. The idea of a European army without American involvement was a French obsession in the 1950s. Today, Macron continues with the same goal for which he develops concepts such as European sovereignty that we could hear in the Croatian Parliament of the ruling and strategic autonomy of the EU. Two fundamentally pointless but inevitably divided concepts that can only satisfy politicians in Moscow. Many today argue that it is a good thing if Europeans step up their defence arrangements. But NATO is relatively well established. 27 of the 30 member states are European countries, of which as many as 21 are EU members. Any force in the EU would have to rely on the same limited military resources and would be a distraction. The EU, its ambitions are already intruding in NATO where the establishment of a co-ordination structure between the two organisations is now despite the fact that their membership is mostly the same. The EU countries can't even agree on each other. Many talk about the idea of CSDP, or common security and defence policy, and refuse to participate in any meaningful way in the same way. Even the federalist European Parliament noted in its latest EU defence report that in more than 15 years, the existence of an EU combat group has never been used specifically because of a lack of political consensus between Member States and the complexity of implementation and financing. In NATO's headquarters in the early 1990s, the French more favoured European military capabilities separated from NATO when the Homeland War began, more specifically before the problems in BiH demanded that not in NATO be discussed but elsewhere, where they thought of the Western European Union. A clean European group whose headquarters was immediately down the road in central Brussels. As a result, the two Allied Navys acted on the Adriatic and Mediterranean side under NATO's command, and the other under the Western European Union with more or less the same ships rotating between them. But after Bosnian military operations became serious, even France gave up this farce and supported NATO's option. And imagine that the fate of Ukraine or Croatia was left to the EU leadership in Brussels or France or Germany with their preferences towards Moscow or then the former Yugoslavia. Less than a month ago, Berlin refused to send heavy armor to support the Ukrainians while it was found that both France and Germany were selling weapons to Russia worth 300m euros. Consider the example of Poland, which along with the countries on the first line, such as the UK and the Czech Republic have become an example of how to be supportive by providing a desperate need, the needed military assistance to Ukraine. There may be opportunities in which the United States may not want to engage in a particular crisis, but the best military and civilian response should be discussed at the table with all NATO allies. I expect clear and loud ambiguity from our government and on this matter. At least until the moment until consensus is created in the centres of EU power. When Brussels agrees, it will also know the position of the Republic of Croatia, not before, because just before that moment would be the political suicide of the ruling party or individuals, political careers whose sole goal is personal political rather than national progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103420	As an eighth, they will speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103421	My colleagues. Today is 25.5., I expected someone on the left to talk about the greatest hero of our history, so I wanted to refer to it, but at the last minute I got orders from Mr. Penava's party president, I didn't know that the president had become harsh and sharp, where he specifically asked me to continue what I started last time and how he wrote me here at four, five thesis to process them as I worked at the club, but our president doesn't care that I have as much time in the club as I want, and here I'm limited in time so I can hurry. So, Mr Milosevic said the signed contract with the government of the Republic of Croatia is being challenged, and he is identical with the other religious communities, that's what I was talking about. However, the first thesis was to deny the existence of the Serbian Orthodox Church, so it is not my end to deny it, it is rather realistic, I do not deny it, but I deny that it exists in the way it exists, that it exists in accordance with that law or sorry not with the law with that contract which is completely against the agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church. So, since it is clashed with Croatian law, it is clashed with the canon of Orthodoxism, it is also confronted with historical facts. And now in these historical facts, I'm going to process these other two, three Penavina thesis. So, this Serbian Orthodox Church, gentlemen, and I've said it five times, so there's no denying me, where Milosevic and Pupovac, so she's twice not canonically yet in the Middle Ages separated from the Ohrid Archdiocese, so for the first time, the Homatian Episcopal of Ohrid has strongly reprimanded St. Savi here are the people from Belgrade who sent me a copy of this Homatian letter from St. Savi. After that, 1346 C.E. Dušan Silni wants to be emperor, to be emperor must have a patriarch, the patriarch doesn't make it up, he invents a patriarch who declares Dushan a emperor, followed by an anatema of the imperial patriarch Kalist. Then a very significant event in 1530. Four patriarchs, four Orthodox patriarchs, not to mention them, I counted them in the assembly a year ago, sent a letter to the Ohrid Archbishop and said they never existed, no official Serbian Orthodox church that was all a lie and a fraud, in 1557 the Pećka Patriarchy, no Serbian Patriarchy, but the Pećka Patriarchy of the Hungarian countries that existed until 1766 when due to outstanding fiscal obligations towards the Turkish Empire, its children or children take the Imperial Patriarchy, and thus continues the way until our days. So 1707. in the Sremski Karlovci after the Vienna War, which would have taken a lot of my work, which even ended with the conflict of the Holy Alliance of the Christian Army where the Austro-Hungarian General Piccolo Billy ended up in, in Skopje, and died of the plague in Prilep, it seems to me, and after that, the Orthodox who supported the action were fleeing, not only Serbs but also Greeks and Bulgarians and these and them and in 1707, the patriarchs of Sremski Karlovci were founded, none of the Serbian Patriarchs but the Episcope in Sremski Karlovci is called, Episcopal of both sides, Danube, upper countries and Croatian Episcopia, and that episcopia lasted until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, until, uh, by 17.6.1920. The world's first war ends as it ends, Alexander declares the unification of three Orthodox churches at the Serbian Orthodox Church. If he had respected the canon of Orthodoxism, he would have founded the Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, but he does not but declares and justifies the Serbian Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, they see that this is wrong and that is why Tomos cannot win but only after 2nd. when he paid for it with a million and a half francs. In parallel with this founding or after that for World War II is founded, here again I have spent time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103422	Thank you, Comrade Pracchin, the time is over. I don't know, I don't know if President Penava will be happy, but maybe it'd be better if you shot at Comrade Tito. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Jeck's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103423	Thank you. He's been injured. 238, aware of the fact that I will get a warning, but I cannot hide my fascination with this knowledge of the work of the Serbian Orthodox Church. I believe that he is a colleague of the Pracacin, and it is obvious that he is obsessed and that there is an indescribable love behind it, but I must say, for the public's sake, that this Serbian Orthodox Church has several million believers, unlike the Croatian Orthodox Church. Not having a single 500 [[Intruder: Thank you]] to register them properly. [[/Intruder: Thank you, colleague Jeckov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103424	Thank you, you're getting a warning, this was a replica, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As the seventh on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103520	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. In a meeting Monday, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities was the official domestic representatives of the Advisory Committee to monitor the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. It's about what happened. A follow-up visit to the last part of the cycle of monitoring the implementation of the Framework Convention during a five-year period aimed at establishing a dialogue between the Council of Europe, the authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of national minorities to find concrete and practical solutions to the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Committee in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise to an independent body of the Council of Europe. In my fifth opinion, I've already said something about this pay phone, but it's not a waste to remind the public. In fact, the fifth opinion contains recommendations for current action and longer-term ones, so the first recommendation was to implement the census because it is important to increase citizens' confidence in the data collection process and the results of the census. As unpleasant as this data may be for us, others look forward to it. The State Department of Statistics for Truth for Will had a hearing and reacted spotlessly to every objection delivered. Another recommendation for current action suggests the preparation of a comprehensive strategy to promote interethnic dialogue and inclusive society. Then, we are encouraged to resolve more resolutely and publicly condemn all cases of public inciting violence and hatred, hate crimes as well as radical nationalism, historical auditism and those of hate speech, which relate to members of national minorities in order to be effectively monitored and, when necessary, sanctioned. The hate speech due to its frequency may unfortunately speak for a long time and in almost every free speech term, as well as the last graphite, which is the school's example of hate speech, which again calls for the fatal 1990s and directs our recent colleague from the Anja Shimprag assembly benches, where she, but all the rest of us Serbs should go and what means of transport we should use. The fourth recommendation of the Advisory Committee concerns the organisation of inclusive and quality education, and imagine the addition of segregation in schools. As far as the recommendations for long-term action are concerned, the presence of national minorities in public media because the data of about 1% of public service representation is spinning, which I believe you will agree is indeed one of the devastating data. The Advisory Committee invites us to reduce the threshold for the official use of the language and letters of national minorities in local self-government units and invites all local authorities to respect and apply the prescribed conditions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, reading these recommendations of the Advisory Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Framework Convention, I recognise very identical topics which have been opened for this speaker to us minority representatives, but often without success, but it seems that we need to open the eyes of someone third as they did on Monday by representatives of the Council of Europe's Advisory Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103558	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103559	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in their free speech, would refer to the call for the delivery of grants for construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of preschool institutions, the first call issued by the Ministry of Science and Education, and will be financed from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme 2021. – 2026. whose aim is to invest in construction, construction, upgrade, reconstruction and equipment of pre-school institutions. I find it important to point to the absurdity of this public call. I would first mention two things, that the acceptable amount of co-financing per project proposal is determined according to the number of living rooms to be built or upgraded and that it is possible to get a million 440 thousand kuna per living room. However, the amount of a million 440 thousand kuna can only be allocated to the project in the event of the construction of a new kindergarten or the amount of a million 440 thousand kunas becoming even more unfavourable depending on the category of investment. So to upgrade and equip existing kindergartens you get only 85% of these million 440 thousand kunas, for the reconstruction of the municipal facility for other purposes only 60%, and for the adaptation of the existing kindergarten only 50%. For example St. Mary, a small place in Međimurje from which I come goes to an upgrade where there will be two new living rooms, two sanitary knots, room for director, room for washing and hallway, but the money is obtained according to the number of living rooms. This means that they can get approximately 2 million 480 thousand kuna for a complete upgrade, and the estimated value of an upgrade with equipment is almost 5 million kuna. Therefore, the upgrade of municipalities should be co-financed by 50%. In addition to how public procurement must be carried out for the project, the price obtained through the basis of the project will be more than 9 thousand kunas, as much as the basis of the public call can finance a meter of children's kindergarten, so that it may happen that the municipality will have to co-finance as 60% of the total value of the project, which is certainly not only financially possible for the municipality's budget, but also for many other budgets of local self-government units. Unfortunately, they will not be able to single out that money, and they will likely have to give up childcare schooling, regardless of what enlargement or upgrade is necessary if they want all children to be able to attend kindergarten. The amount of a million 440 thousand kunas was obtained by assessing the cost of construction listed in the National Recovery Plan, the Recovery and Resistance Programme, where 8 m2 is defined by the registration place times 9,000 kuna for building per metre square times 20 children, which is the average number of children in the group. Here we come to the problem of unrealistic assessment of the cost of construction, the situation with prices on the market and the problems of public procurement. I don't know how that amount was calculated by all the collections of iron, concrete, energy and everything else. The daily stay will be financed only for the number of children who are not in kindergartens but take into account no account how many more children are placed in kindergartens than prescribed by pedagogical standards. Thus, the number of children attending kindergartens was taken into account, not the facilities that kindergartens have, although it is well known that almost all kindergartens are overbooked and that kindergartens attend far more children than their accommodation facilities are prescribed by the pedagogue standard. These are data collected by the Ministry of Statistics from the State Bureau and will be conducted in the evaluation of project proposals. The vast majority of municipalities are already in charge of some other items and are no longer in debt. If the conditions of a public call are not changed, they will have to give up despite real and non-megalomanic projects which would meet the real needs of the pedagogical standard. Finally, I call on the government and the competent ministry to reconsider the decisions of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and increase the amounts foreseen for the construction of kindergartens or to finance childcare projects according to the estimated values set by the profession and which are currently on the market because, contrary to the pedagogical standards they have taken over from the EU, there will be nothing. I am afraid that in the end, many units of local self-government will give up running for a public invitation or give up signing a contract with the rest of the ministry, regardless of what happens in the competition and that eventually all the money intended for this project will be returned to the EU, and the units of local self-government will remain without such a necessary kindergarten as to ultimately have long-term consequences for the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103641	And we are going to the last debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues of Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103642	Good afternoon. The headlines of local media have recently become full of praises to the Lurssen programme, which is reportedly going to start in Rijeka with the development of maritime and shipbuilding and employment, and be careful not to fall from the chair of 100 experts, the Lurssen group in Rijeka will hire 100 experts. I remind you that in 2018, shipbuilding paid more taxes back to the state budget than the subsidies received, provided existence for about 100,000 people in Croatia. 11,000 workers were employed in shipbuilding plus 20,000 other related industries. So 100,000 people lived from shipbuilding in Croatia. We are clapping on the media of the Lurssen group that comes to Rijeka to hire 100 experts. At the same time, we've got a situation in Brodsplit that we can't finish the ship because there are no of our engineers who went outside. The highly qualified experts who once in history brought us to one of the first places in shipbuilding in the world went out, for them we have no incentive for returnees. The government gives incentives to returnees like this to measures that are completely ridiculous to 200,000 kuna returnees, but for our shipbuilders there is no money. I would remind you that former Minister Horvat preferred to give the companies that he negotiated via SMS messages with his associate about $150,000 kuna than he was supposed to give 150,000 to the Uljani to complete the jar, which would ensure continued production in Uljanik and maintenance of jobs. He'd rather give some firms this kind of bargaining than keep the oil and keep the shipbuilding in Pula. So today we'll talk about entrepreneurship. Rather, this HDZ government has destroyed a series of companies such as Orljava, which was 100% owned by HDZ, Uljanik, is not funny, it's really not funny, you might find it funny, but people in Pula who moved out really aren't funny. There's really no man on the street because of your policies in the Ulnik. I'm not saying you started it, the SDP started privatisation, and you stuck the last nail in a shipbuilding coffin in Croatia. You'd rather have destroyed companies like Orljava, your Minister of Paladin Hydropower, assisted it yourself, means destroying that company with a Russian tycoon just to get to the machines of that company and to share your layoffs with the workers rather than to maintain the politics industry, rather than to do something that would really be investing in the industry. There are no cross-sectoral analyses to show in which sectors we should invest, which are industries that have the opportunity to produce higher additional value, which have the potential for multiplier effects on the industry that has been shipbuilding. And now we have a situation in which there is also a wunderkind, a privateer who has been taken over from the state asking him to help as the state has helped Končar, who eventually destroyed Brodotrogir, but the state does not think of entering the property of Brodosplit and to ensure the transparent business of Brodosplit, to ensure production, to restore industry, to bring back workers, to provide engineers with good jobs because it's probably socialism. I'll remind you that in a series of ways it means examples of highly-developed capitalist countries that practice. So France saved Peugeot when Peugeot was in trouble, Germany saved Volkswagen when he was in trouble and Lufthansa. In Italy, Italy took over practically Fincantieri when it was in trouble in 2011, and even with us, we had an example of a quick takeover means of Sberbanke when it was an interest of the state, but there's nothing to do here, it needs to be destroyed here and then it needs to be shared by SMS messages whether Horvat has experience about it, I hope that the new minister won't do it, via SMS messages to his subsidy friends. A little something that can replace the shipbuilding, that's what I'll end up with. If you think it simply means destroying that shipbuilding because it no longer has any alternative little to replace shipbuilding, little that has the ability to produce such high added value and little that is so highly developed, sophisticated product exactly what we would like and which and HDZ often calls. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103643	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Boric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103644	Thank you very much. My colleague, Peović, has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, here demeans us and insults us with its exposure. First, she was able to determine that we destroyed the Orljav in which it owned 100% HDZ. I mean, when someone says something like that here for a pay phone and convinces themselves that that's how it is, and then even better, with $150,000, they'd save a billion-dollar boat, and it would solve it in its own way with $150,000. I mean demeaning everyone, especially HDZ agents with their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103645	That fellow Boris, this was a replica, you get a warning. Comrade Peovic, here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103646	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, 238, by Boric, is what was said to be the HDZ government, and unfortunately the HDZ represents a country in this country, responsible for the country's economic downturn, as well as for the 150,000 kunas who could indeed save jobs in Ulanik when the oil defence headquarters warned that the completion of the yoke would allow for the continuation of the production and survival of the Uljaniks. You'd rather destroy it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103647	My colleague Peovic, you are being warned, was also a replica of not hurting the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Pavić, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103648	Thank you very much. My colleague injured Article 238, and I happened to be a minister when we were doing calculations to take care of people and in Uljanik and I was directed to that mast. The proposal that the administration made was worth I think about 12 billion kunas that Croatia was supposed to invest in Uljannik, what 150 thousand kunas for the rescue of the yoke. Therefore, we should have invested more money than we have given for the employment of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the last 6 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103649	Thank you. My colleague Pavić, although interesting and this was a replica, you also get a reminder, so we have come to an end now with a view to taking a stand, so we move on to the announced agenda. Let's move on now, colleague Daus on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103687	Thank you very much. Istrian comes to calm down and put it all down. Free speeches are the most common opportunity for political national topics, international and that is normal, but sometimes something needs to be said about everyday situations on the ground, in a locale because there is life, there are people. There is one municipality on the mountain of Ćicarija, called Lanisce is the largest per area, and the smallest per capita in Istria County, this weekend celebrates its day, the day of the municipality, and it reminds me that just over three years ago I was here in May 2019 after this pay phone I talked about the problems of the population and the municipality that was not solved after three years, the question is when it will be. It's about what happened. the communes of rural goods with a kind of specifikam of the region which legally represents the form of ownership of sui generis so that the communes remain the only specific type of ownership in the Republic of Croatia which has not been solved to this day. Similar to the communels in Ćicarija was once the so-called system. A fly of rural communities in Dalmatia but it was solved there in the 1930s. In Dalmatia it was then resolved, but unfortunately in Istria it is not until today, the more the Republic of Croatia registers on these rural goods that the locals enjoy and in whose possession their family have since the days of the Austrian monarchy, that is the time when we were still organized society, at least in our area. And now there are legal proceedings in the courts, that part of course I won't comment, but I wonder after three years again. Neither fascist Italy while managing Istria, nor the communist Yugoslavia, particularly in those first years after II. the world war when private property was seized by many nationalized, did not nationalise rural well-being. In some ways, the Republic of Croatia is trying to do this slightly differently today in a democratic society in capitalism. The zero point for planning the development of investments at any end is the orderly settlement of property law relations and land books. The unresolved situation in land books and generally ownership of legal relations on land in the Municipality of Lanište are very messy and unclear and for many years they represent a stumbling block on the way to the progress of the whole region. And the problem is very complex, it is evident on a number of levels, except for the communels that I have talked about very much is a large number of property large areas that are co-owned, it is often a lot of co-owners, on a regular basis over 50, and this rule is also for a good part of Adriatic Croatia and a large number of people who have moved from this area, starting from the end of World War I until today, often on the other side of the world and are not available to solve property issues. And the problems mentioned above, i.e. unresolved property relations on a large part of the land, make it difficult, and very often they make it impossible for any project, idea or investment to be realised entirely. As a rule, any initiative or investment comes upon an insurmountable wall on which it is already stopped at the very beginning and, for some better time, delays any attempt to revitalise or even sustain the life of the stated end and its population. And why did only of those several hundred municipalities in Croatia single out this one? Because they really need more help than others, because young families begin to see the benefits of living in such environments and only a little help can bring back children’s marble to those villages in Cicaria. Trends have been changing lately. In some comparable cases, the Republic of Croatia, together with the units of local and regional self-government and other authorised bodies and institutions, has approached similar problems in such a way that new cadastral measurements and diameters have been carried out in some municipalities for the purpose of implementing the process of rebuilding land books. That is why I publicly appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help this area, the Istrian County helps as much as it can, but some steps must be taken by the state itself and that the rural goods belong first to practically centuries-old owners, families that have been enjoying these plots for 150 years and secondly, that the state may carry out new cadastrian precedents, measurements or the process of rebuilding land books itself. In this rural and mountainous part of the Republic of Croatia it is worth saving people, they are willing to stay, some to return, and some to settle, only need a little help. I hope there'll be so much understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103727	You are now a colleague of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives of the Club of Representatives of HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u103728	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In this unfortunate situation of war with nothing caused by war in Ukraine, the energy crisis, the increase in energy prices, rising inflation, we hear all sorts of proposals. Reduce VAT, reduce excise duties, pay higher taxes from the social budget, for vouchers for everything else, I have the impression that we in Croatia are thinking about a country that has some production and makes a profit in production, and now it needs to be shared, and if there is no entrance it can be difficult to get out because it is all one closed circle, and there is no printing because this difficult situation with printing money would be twice as difficult, and we simply are not able to do it. What's going on now? Now everyone is competing to make an attractive proposal, including some fellow politicians, and the HUP comes out with the the thesis that the future contributions for retirement should be 13% instead of 15%. Great, it's very nice of those who have won the most in Croatian society so far, they're very solid. How'd they get it? Well, gentlemen dear, employers can pay two in terms of two average salaries without taxes and contributions to their workers, they can pay two salaries without taxes and contributions plus another 25% of the grey economy we are at a loss of around 10 billion contributions to pension and they demand a reduction as if they do not know that in Croatia as the only member of the EU taxes, contributions, excise duties are the revenues of the state budget in all others are distributed and can be spent as much as it has and is working to collect contributions. And these contributions they mention are the lowest in the EU. I'll illustrate it on one indicator that came out yesterday, the safe 20 years of this country are pointed out as excellent craftsmen, mobile workers, quality performers, all kinds of construction, building equipment, etc. And what do you think the result of their excellence is? The result of their excellence was announced yesterday in the lowest pensions rating per county. The Međimurje County has a thousand kunas less pension than the City of Zagreb, which has the largest. What's the score? Well, that's the result of solid receipts through the field, through the diaries, through travel expenses, solid receipts and low wages. So, these people at HUP who say we need to cut our contributions, you know what our future predicts, at this point we have more than 280,000 pensioners protecting the lowest pension that is small, which is small, which is between 1,050 and 4,000 kuna, depending on how much internship there is, so 280, they predict us for 10 years 500,000 citizens with the lowest pension. It's our future and it's the future of these proposals. With one, I agree with them, that all persons employed, all employees should pay contributions both to pension and to health and students for non-paying student work should pay contributions for retirement so that they can eventually retire, not like this. With that alone, I agree, but with the reduction of pension contributions to the reduction of such miserable pensions and the creation of a growing cycle of poverty, I can never agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112145	and we move on to the announced agenda. - Final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 282. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85th Constitution and Art. 172 and 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and before I give a word to the proposing state secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman, we have several requests for a break, first order of the colleague, Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club for 10 minutes so we can consult further and we can sort things out a little bit. I think we support, of course, every incentive and investment in the Republic of Croatia even though there are about 50% of the projects approved by those who have applied, not to get too much into the statistics now, me and our club are worried about something else. According to what we see here, the most investment refers to tourism and is not a problem, of course, tourism as an economic branch and is not a problem with investment in tourism or too much but is too little in something else, there is too little investment in production in creating additional value in our society, it is missing. We lack production and direction on how to get to this production and therefore I wonder if we as a country will finally determine where we want to be for 20th, and where for 50 years, which manufacturing branches of the economy will be our bearer of development in this country and then knowingly and consciously invest in these branches, much more than we have done so far, primarily in new modern green industries based on knowledge and development, engineers, scientists, professors who, with the help of modern management, will create directions for development of the Republic of Croatia are the only right path. Otherwise, we will only be a tourist destination for those who have long agreed with themselves and the society in which they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112147	Comrade Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112148	Thank you very much, dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. So today we have in the emergency procedure a law called the Investment Encouragement Act, so 2012. when it was first adopted that law the idea was to ensure and therefore be a lex specialis to ensure the possibility of encouraging investment in the Republic of Croatia and one of the primary ideas was to activate inactive state property. From what we see today, two things, the first thing that inactive state property will remain inactive is that we don't have elements that can be activated, and the second thing we see is that investment in construction or construction is whatever you want to call in relation to the total, total investment of 3.3%. You don't have to be a great expert in the economy to know that encouraging investment in construction is a driver of one country's development, you don't have to be a great expert to turn around and see that parts of Croatia have hit an earthquake and that the result of that earthquake should be investment in construction. Equally you know and you have the opportunity to see the prices that went up, we have the opportunity to hear about the problem of the construction material factory that is not there, that doesn't exist. It was therefore to be expected that through this law that goes into emergency procedure we are really giving answers to key questions, how to provide elements and conditions to encourage more strongly the construction industry in terms of the green industry, in terms of all the changes that are, but also how to activate inactive state property, which is now believed or not managed by one minister for which no one knows where it is, it is called Paladina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112149	Thank you. Let's go to the third request for a break now, Comrade Bice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112150	In front of the Focus Club and independent MPs, he would propose a 10-minute break to consult at the club on this law, which is actually the first law on the economy since the outbreak of the Ukrainian crisis. I must say that the Investment Encouragement Act should provide an answer to how to help the economy at the moment the Republic of Croatia is in front of the wave of inflation that has already begun on the other hand by stagnation of the economy, and when we talk about the economy, it is the engine that should get you out of this crisis. As shown in this proposal for the law, a number of HGK and the tourism sectors have been rejected. Namely, the NPOO is talking about brownfield investments, of course we are talking about investments in already existing facilities such as production halls or, for example, tourist facilities. Only when we talk about it is the tourism sector indicated that there are 35 billion kunas in preparation for such projects of 60 as is predicted, it is almost half, and at least a third of what would be expected to go into the investment wave, it is important for not only tourism but also for construction and therefore it is not clear why this law did not accept it, which is why our production plants cannot be equipped in this way and why they are excluded from the possibility of using European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112151	And this break has been approved, and then we'll stop by 11 o'clock, and then we'll get word to the Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. It's 10.47 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:47 AM]] And as I have announced, I now call on the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Natasha Mikush Zigman, for the opening exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112153	Thank you very much. Mr. President of HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here, allow me in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposal for this regulation to explain the main elements of the proposal for this normative act. The law is proposed to comply with the EU acquis, i.e. Regulation 2021/1237, which was adopted on 23 July 2021, and then to mitigate the negative consequences of the covid pandemic, on existing users of the Investment Encouraging Act, and also to coordinate with the new regional support map for the Republic of Croatia, which is in force from 1 January of this year. I would just like to remind you that the current Investment Encouragement Act came into force in October 2015, it has so far been amended and amended four times and, taking into account the scope of all the changes so far and the abovementioned reasons, we have decided on the proposal for a new normative act. The Investment Encouragement Act lays down incentive measures for the economy and, above all, for the following, manufacturing and processing activities, further development-innovation activities, business support activities related to previously mentioned types of investment and also high value added services. Supports that users can benefit from under the provisions of this Act shall be the 1st reduction of profit tax between 50 and 100 % over a period of up to 10 years or up to the use of the permitted support intensity per user. In addition, fiscal support can be used for the employment or training of employees who have to be linked to the investment project. It is also possible to use support for the capital costs of the investment project or for the modernisation, automation and digitisation of manufacturing and processing processes. I mentioned that the law is proposed in order to comply with the acquis and to mitigate the negative consequences of the covids of the pandemic, thus introducing a new provision which, in the event of a temporary or permanent reduction in the number of employees associated with the investment project, during the period from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2021, which, in fact, relates to the pandemic of covids, does not consider such a reduction in the number of employees to be a violation of the obligation to keep new jobs in the area concerned. In particular, large entrepreneurs who are users of this law have an obligation to preserve jobs over a period of five years and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for a period of three years or not shorter than the period of application of support under the law. By introducing such a provision, we meet entrepreneurs who, as a result of the pandemic, have had a reduction in the number of jobs. Furthermore, regarding the commitment to create new jobs for which users receive support due to the circumstances of the COvid user pandemic, additional years for the opening of planned jobs related to the investment project are allowed. As we note a reduction in the unemployment rate, this proposal also lowers the level of registered unemployment rate at county level or at NUTS level 3 regions, which is a prerequisite under the law for the use of monetary support for job creation. Thus, up to 6,000 euros in support per newly employed person will be able to reach users from those counties who have registered unemployment rates between 10% and 15%, while up to 9,000 euros per employee support will be able to reach county entrepreneurs with an unemployment rate of more than 15%, so far that threshold has been set to 20%, so we reduced it by 5%. It also reduces the level of registered unemployment rate which, in accordance with this law, is also a prerequisite for the use of monetary support for the project's capital costs. So projects in counties with an unemployment rate of between 10% and 20% can achieve support of up to 500,000 euros, and in counties with an unemployment rate greater than 15% achieve support of a maximum of 1m euros. So far, the relevant employment rate has been 20% and we are reducing by 5% compared to the current regulation. Furthermore, it is important to say that the capital support I am talking about is granted for investments exclusively in manufacturing and processing activities, which contain a minimum investment of five million euros in long-term assets and the creation of a minimum of 50 new jobs. Since the beginning of this year and a new map of regional support, support for entrepreneurs will be granted in accordance with the same map according to significantly greater intensity. As an example, large entrepreneurs in Northern and Pannonian Croatia can be listed, so at NUTS level 2 regions that have so far been able to use intensity support up to 25%, and according to a new map of regional support can use up to 50% of the support intensity. Taking into account precisely this greater intensity of support as well as the objective of the proposing regulation to cover as many entrepreneurs as possible with this programme. The annual amount of support that one user can use is seven million euros or equivalent to more than 50 million kuna. The investment period shall last three years from the start of the investment and shall cover all investments that the user has made during that period. The draft of this bill has been discussed, as was introduced by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Legislatives, and I thank you, on my part, for the support of the bill on those committees. The reasons for the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure relate to the users of the aid which started their projects during the Covid-19 pandemic, which in this way enables the extension of the period for opening jobs as previously stated, so that they will not come into the situation of a possible loss of advantage to which they have the right, in accordance with the decision on the granting of support or in accordance with the provisions of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112154	I thank the secretary of state. Let's go with the replicas now, first of all, Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112155	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, although we are aware of the increase and inflation, and above all of the increase in energy prices, and which is caused by aggression in Ukraine, after the 2nd pandemic years in crafts, we have positive shifts, or on April 30th of this year, we can see that there is a total of 98.484 registered crafts which is 5.7% more than at that time in 2021, and we also have employees in crafts, which is also an increase of 5.4% versus 2021, and certainly these measures that you said led to these positive shifts. Can you tell if they will continue to keep that in view of the situation in Ukraine and if there are any other measures for craftsmen being envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112157	Thank you very much, so that exactly the circumstances as I explained and Covida have been taken into account in the provisions of this bill because we actually want to encourage further investment activity in the Republic of Croatia. What I can say is that figures in terms of both direct foreign investment are positive. So we're recording a 300% increase in foreign direct investment compared to 2021 compared to 2020, and of course it's partly due to the provisions of this law that are very well used.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112158	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112159	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this law has been in force for some time, before it we had a very similar law. We often say that the Croatian economy is too dependent on tourism, and we see from the materials that you have provided us that just the companies in the tourism sector have withdrawn the most funds through this law, so I don't know how we intend to reduce that dependence if we continue to encourage investment there. Croatia is also a country in which differences in economic development are expressed according to the territory of Slavonia where I come from is amongst the underdeveloped, and again we see that most companies using funds under this law are from Zagreb, Varazdinska, Međimurje County, so how your ministry thinks to reduce these differences in economic development and dependence on tourism as very vulnerable the economic branch. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112160	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112161	Thank you very much for asking, if we look at statistics by the number of projects reported then 14.6% of projects are reported in tourism. They are worth something of 35, slightly more than 35% of the incentives under this law, so the share of tourism is significant. However, what I must stress is that these projects are high added value, so where there is an increase in the categorisation of, for example, hotel accommodation and new investment. So we're not financing investment maintenance, we're financing new investments in that segment. And some of the measures such as capital investment support are exclusively, I apologize, exclusively related to production processing activity. Therefore, production processing is particularly highlighted in the law in terms of fiscal support, and the very map of regional support, which gives greater potential for intensity right in the area. The Pannonian Croatia, for example, encourages investment in such parts of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112162	Thank you very much. You can drink your own water If necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's move on, colleague Porniæ, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I will refer to Article 19. The law on the promotion of investments relating to the economic activation of inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia, namely land and buildings managed by the Ministry of State Property. Inactive assets within the meaning of this law owned by the Republic of Croatia will not be considered inactive assets that have unresolved property legal relations, assets on which there is any type of cargo entered and assets that have in nature agricultural, forest or tourist land status. What is the capacity or possibility of using inactive state property that can be put into operation by virtue of the provisions of this law? So, if you expect, whether more significant use of inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia is expected to be used and whether state property is even ready for economic activity Activating by encouraging investment? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112164	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112165	Thank you very much. As far as the use of state property is concerned, we believe, and therefore we have put that provision into the law in time that in fact inactive state property is put into function of economic activity. The fact is that this provision is still not used enough. In part, and for the reasons that land legal issues have not been resolved, and therefore we cannot actually make available to the investor the property that is burdened with such a question, that may be the question of other laws. However, what I would like to point out is that if such an asset settlement is eventually completed in a court of law and if the parties agree that a trustee of such property can possibly be appointed, then it is possible to resolve the issue and put property into office and within the meaning of the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112166	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112167	Thank you. You mentioned, therefore, that entrepreneurs who are beneficiaries of the state's support for investment will not be considered to be an easy environment, or will not be considered to be a violation of the obligation to preserve new jobs and will not be penalized if there is a temporary, but also a lasting meaning of the layoff of workers from early 2020 until June 21st, I would warn that the meaning of the crown came to us somewhere in March 2020, so it doesn't seem to me like it's real, meaning that from the beginning, and the other thing, what I'm interested in, is whether we can get an insight into the list and mean what companies that would have been retired in the present, without this meaning, changes in the law and in fact, whether it should not only mean a period and one-time and uniformly refer to those companies rather than to how much they have received in this same period, and then see whether they have an excuse for firing of workers or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112168	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112169	Thank you very much. As regards the date of application of this period, whether, for companies affected by Covid, I would like to say that this primarily applies to companies that started their project during the Covid period and these dates are in line with the legal acquis of the EU, so we have, in effect, changed the provisions of this Law. The companies that are affected by this problem, I think there are about 60 of them, we will of course, I don't have them here right now, but we can, on request, provide information to companies that is concerned, and it's actually a second question because the basis of the gain is then the benefit of the tax exemption from profit so it's actually something that's parallel to that obligation to preserve jobs, is it, so it's two separate things. We can't take that as a criterion for preserving jobs, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112170	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112171	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Well, I'm very glad to say that this Investment Encouragement Act is now in front of HS, of course, in light of Croatia's exit from the excessive macroeconomic imbalance procedure. Of course, Croatia's entry into the European, Eurozon, which I think will further strengthen and give impulses to that part. My colleague mentioned it was an inert of state property, I think it's a good one. Also, I think that all the nine supports mentioned in this Act are also very good progress for the economy, I would just like to clarify a little bit and try to clarify and for the sake of citizenship the fact that all of this is provided by the state budget and this one regarding this entrepreneurial environment, i.e. the investment environment in which we all have to work in detail. And in one part to strengthen that part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112172	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112173	Thank you very much for asking. Yes, therefore, regardless of whether tax benefits are involved, i.e. a reduction in the profit tax rate or fiscal support for new employment or capital costs of investments, it is the state budget that directly or indirectly bear the costs of such investments, but we believe that this is justified because it is precisely by the activation of entrepreneurial activities that increase, of course, among other things the budgetary revenues, therefore, and it is also driving the economy. As far as the business environment is concerned, I can only say that in the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Programme, we have envisaged a series of measures that are now simplifying and costing business in Croatia and that is, therefore, something that we are working on in accordance with the deadlines agreed with colleagues from the EU Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112174	Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112175	Mr. President, the Honored State Secretary, so this Law has sparked the interest of the public in e-Consultation, I must say that you have received a series, I would say the remarks, from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, from the tourism sector, but also from other entities. Of course, this is related to one of the provisions of this Act which substantially changes circumstances, which is actually an opportunity to introduce the possibility of euro or other financing in the brownfield investment. If we know that we are talking about production plants which, of course, can be built up in such a way, but also about the tourism sector because unlike colleagues, I do not think that the problem in tourism is as strong as the rest of the economy is strong enough. Which is why it is rejected if we know that the tourism sector is in the past, so the period is almost a third of the total of investments, and right now, 80% of their contributions will be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112176	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112177	Thank you very much for asking. Well, we've already pointed out that in fact the segment of tourism is exactly the one that very generously uses the provisions of this law, which means that the law is indeed turned in one part of its part and according to such investments. Brownfield investments are not excluded, so it is not exclusively greenfield investment, so it is possible to go to investment in tourism, but of course, with the emphasis that this should be investment or investment of high added value, which means that there must be new investment, capacity expansion, and it is not possible to encourage projects that are ongoing investment maintenance, it is not in line with the common rules on common State aid exemptions on which this Act is based.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112178	Comrade Zmaic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112179	Thank you, President-in-Office, respected State Secretary, as we can see, based on the current Investment Encouragement Act, the biggest investments were made in tourism, in the Mediterranean industry and wood processing industry, and the projects that were most implemented in the City of Zagreb, then in Zagreb County, Split-Dalmatia County, Varazdinska, Istria and Primorje-Gorski County. Unfortunately, the county of Slavonia and Baranja is neither on track, and I believe that this new bill will in the future make investments in this developed area, and this will certainly contribute to the new statistical division of Croatia, i.e. the regional support map. Can you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112180	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112181	I can certainly and thank you for that question. According to a new map of regional support, as I said, there is a significant increase in aid intensity precisely in regions that are weaker on their average than the national average, and so in part of Northern Croatia and Pannonian Croatia these intensity will be between 50% for large entrepreneurs up to as much as 70% for small entrepreneurs and their investments. In the case of Zagreb, which has proved to be the most active is to say in terms of investment in terms of this law, large entrepreneurs will be able to invest in, exclusively in new economic activities. So we expect this law to have one of these distributive effects in a way that entrepreneurs decide to invest in less developed areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112182	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112183	Dear Secretary of State, it is a good topic to try to put in place a more efficient and inactive state property as soon as possible, but again the question of why you introduced that development index. Why do we keep sharing this land? Why are we constantly punishing those who have been developed? So if someone wants to come I don't know how to invest in Poreč or here in Bakar, in developed areas when we complicate it, he'll probably not know how to say, well, I'm not going to go to Požega anymore. No, it won't. It'll happen much sooner. And I really don't understand, instead of encouraging us, instead of all being equal and giving everyone the opportunity to develop, we introduce a development index and we share us all together again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112184	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112185	Thank you very much, so the answer is actually very simple. The development index, i.e. NUTS 2 regions, is a prerequisite for the use of both the state budget and the EU funds through operational programmes in the first place, and then to encourage exactly this kind of investment. So we have to classify ourselves that way. However, what is much more important is that, for example, in an area such as Istria, the intensity of support rises from, for example, big businesses with 25% ma 40%. So, we can't talk about that, this new regional map has led to the promotion of investment, and it's up to the entrepreneur to decide which is the most appropriate area for his investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112186	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112187	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the State Secretary, would first like to refer to the regional support map. The aim of cohesion funds is to get us all to the EU average. Part of Croatia is more than 100% of the EU average, for the City of Zagreb is 108%, part is 30.38%, Slavonia, Dalmatian Zagora, the idea is to all come to the EU average. We fought hard for that regional support map, and I think it's very good to be implemented here. But my question goes more in the direction of the headquarters, investors are looking for stability. When we see that Croatia and Ireland are the only ones out of macroeconomic imbalances, that we have 1.6 million employees, low unemployment, we enter the euro zone, as much as all these factors with credit agencies mean to investors to actually come to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112188	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112189	Thank you very much for asking, so I think it means a lot. It is indeed very good news that Croatia has come out of excessive macroeconomic imbalances and that in fact much stronger economies are now behind us according to that criterion. That's really very good information. And I believe that this is a clear signal to investors, it is not only our assessment but also the European Commission's assessment, that Croatia is a country worth investing in or under which investment conditions are favourable to investors. Joining the eurozone will only further contribute to reducing investment costs, reducing interest rates and making the stimulating environment even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112190	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112191	I thank the president. Dear Mikush Zigman, my replica, and in fact the remark is not directed at you, I respect you, but is aimed at those whose policies you represent and represent here. And then it refers to the following, so how are we going to drive and activate the currently inactive state property unless we have an adequately committed and complex publicly available register of state property and if management plans essentially do not exist and give too wide a space for manipulation and corruption of corrupt ministers who were corrupt even before they even entered public service. So before we even get a list of what the state has and before we introduce a transparent way of making available, we simply can't move on. The second observation concerns the non-recognition of the potential of investment in construction and the construction sector, which we could have raised on our feet for many days to begin rebuilding, and we didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112192	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112193	Thank you very much. I would not be able to comment on the allegations of corruption, on the other hand, our intention of course is to put as best into operation as possible the provisions of this law relating to the activation of state property. Of course, everything cannot be solved by this law, that certain activities need to be undertaken through other resors or other bodies’ activities. In terms of investment in construction, construction industry or construction industry can be a beneficiary of this law if they do not work with new plants, so if they build new plants. Construction in terms of construction work is not the subject of this law. However, all initiatives coming from EU level in terms of new... new materials, ecological materials are therefore acceptable and are encouraged through the provisions of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112194	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112195	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the investment climate in Croatia is extremely important for the creation of new jobs, as well as for the preservation of existing jobs. And we had the opportunity to read here so through 1,323 projects and over 55 billion Croatian money means from the Croatian budget that it is a huge money that gives the Croatian entrepreneurs a chance which is actually the backbone of Croatian production. I am interested in what way will this law align with EU gains improve the investment climate in Croatia and what will be the added value of this money for the general good in Croatian society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112196	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112197	Thank you very much. So I can best answer that through the effect of the law so far, you mentioned more than 1300 investment projects reported, it's about investment worth 55 billion and more than 55 billion kuna, opening nearly 34,000 new jobs, so here I think these figures speak for themselves about the value of what this law encourages and the importance of GDP growth, or for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112198	Mr. Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112199	... Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] In the wake of my colleagues' question, how much will your ministry estimate that the adoption of this law will foster further concrete implementation of investments in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112200	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112201	Thank you very much. Perhaps I should just mention that this is not a new law, so we have an Investment Encouragement Act that is practically in use, but this support programme that has been in force since 2012, the effects are exactly what I mentioned earlier. We now pass or propose a new law for the reasons that there have been a series of amendments and additions, as well as reasons for harmonising with the acquis. We expect that the effects will be even stronger precisely in the context of the previously mentioned entry into the Eurozone and creating an even more stimulating environment for foreign investment and domestic investment in the economy I can't talk about numbers, the figures so far are in favour of this law achieving its purpose. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112202	Thank you. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112203	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. This is a commendable law, which states among other things that acceptable investment costs are building costs based on a building permit. Since in the Republic of Croatia we have about 48% of hotel facilities with two and three stars, they are like their owners eager to invest, so there are investments in swimming pools, in vaults, terraces, children's sports playgrounds, solars, so there is no need to obtain a building permit and thus do not exercise the right to such support. What can we tell these investors and how to help these investments?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112204	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112205	Thank you very much. Yes, it was a very current question through the e-consultation process, we decided to standardize it in a way that those building projects based on a building permit or on the confirmation of the main project, which means that simple buildings can be financed by art. Four and five. The rules on simple structures may be the subject of investment under this law, as well as equipment, such as the equipment of camps that are not actually subject to a special permit is only equipment. Why is that? For this reason, the EU's legal gains mean that it must be a new investment, that is, new investment, capacity expansion, expansion of production, and this is exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112206	Thank you. Mr. Ocrosha.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112207	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State. This proposal for a law on the promotion of investment in the context of developmental directions and strategic objectives of the National Development Strategy until 2030. It is extremely important to promote environmentally secure and sustainable investment projects, and whose realisation directly affects the achievement of one or more of the following objectives of 10 of them listed in the draft law. To me, the very interesting objectives are the contribution to green and digital transition, the economy of the Republic of Croatia and the contribution to a sustainable innovative economy and high-tech industry 4.0. We know that there are no highly qualified workers in the Republic of Croatia, and in order to achieve these objectives, we are going to need such a workforce, so I am interested in your comment on whether we will be able to bring in enough qualified workforce in time to achieve these extremely high development goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112208	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112209	Thank you very much. The issue of labour is slightly broader than the very question of this law, it depends, of course, on some other areas. However, what I can say is that this law, apart from allowing tax benefits for investment projects with an emphasis on production-processing activities, also enables fiscal support for the improvement, so with roboticisation and automation of industry 4.0, it is possible to achieve support precisely for the training of employees so that they can also work on such new equipment, so we expect it to act in a stimulating way and to provide labour in production interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112210	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112211	Dear secretary. With these indices, we got a little mixed up with the development indexes. Namely, what's this about? Usually areas that are and have a lower index of development also have fewer populations, where there are fewer qualified labour forces, where there are fewer qualified workers, there are fewer students, so we will also have a future... labour force. And now we're giving the entrepreneur a chance to go into that area and make some... but who's going to work there? Where's he gonna get that workforce from? Imports? Very hard. So where you can make a production plant and where you can get more money to open jobs, there's actually no interested ones or there's no one there to work, and where we could get employees and di we could get a new workforce where there are both schools and everything else, unfortunately there we get a lot less money for these incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112212	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112213	Thank you very much. Yes, this is now linked to the labour issue again, however, I can only say that in areas that are less developed than the average of Croatia, we have a series of investments that have been launched precisely by the provisions of the Investment Encouragement Act, here, as an example, can indicate one investment in Novi Gradišca, whether, which has indeed received an investor, that is, the investor has come, hired people, and that is exactly what we want to encourage this Law. Of course, it is a decision on where to invest and whether there are all the conditions for investment on the investor itself in this area, so he assesses it and makes a decision on where he wants to invest, and through this legal framework we provide additional incentives for the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112214	Thank you. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112215	Dear Vice-President of HS, Your Honors Secretary of State. Here, you mentioned that 14.7% of the projects were from tourism over the past period, i.e. that it was 35% of the total funds, which is not small, and this stands out as a problem. I would even say something contrary to most colleagues, I think it is not a problem because I will say that there are many examples in the world and in our neighborhood where cities, regions and countries live and it is very almost exclusively from tourism. So to encourage production and invest always there, but, I would mention, here, one Prague, one Venice, one Malta, or countries or cities that earn from tourism much more than the whole of Croatia and I, so whether or not we want to, tourism will grow and should invest in tourism, but of course we must not neglect other branches of the economy. With maybe, and there's no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112216	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112217	Thank you. So here you have, in some ways, partly this one, given the answer because this balance between investment in tourism that we do not really hold bad or unacceptable in terms of the provisions of the Law and on the other hand, investment in the manufacturing and processing industry is what we are trying to achieve through the provisions of this Law. Certainly tourism is a valuable part of our economy, so it makes 20% of GDP and should encourage investments that have high added value, so that's what this law does. On the other hand, we also want to influence the structure of the economy to strengthen the production base and therefore the provisions that allow investment in manufacturing and processing activities, so that this balance is actually trying to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112218	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112219	Last time, I draw your attention to the fact that the incentives under this Act are only encouraging support at the time of approval and that they cannot be consumed during the next fiscal period. I did not get your answer well, or did not hear a question, in practice with the approval of this incentive from this law makes it difficult to report the same projects to co-finance EU projects, funds due to double funding, so please just comment on whether anything has changed about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112220	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112221	Thank you very much. As regards the methodology for receiving incentives, when talking about the exemption from the profit tax, it is such that the entrepreneur, for example in 2022, submits an annual financial report for '21. Mr and, in that annual financial report, then seek the exemption granted in accordance with the investment support. And that's why that support, as you yourself said, applies, if we can say so, retroactively, is it? So he's not an obligation to pay that part of the tax. On double funding, what I can say is that intensity and permitted intensity are defined by each entrepreneur regardless of which source they come from and whether they are direct or indirect. So if someone uses EU support at the same time, then they are allowed to receive it, as in part of this Law, to the upper intensity that allows them to map regional support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112222	Thank you. And Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112223	Dear Secretary of State, the Croatian public space was bombed with all kinds of misinformation, and especially the part about the economy here today we also had the opportunity to hear from colleague Peovic who said that 150 thousand kuna purchases of masts could save Uljanik. Do you think this information that we have and that we have here in the materials of 30 billion kuna investment, in 34 thousand new jobs and what is written, and you have also pointed out a significant reduction in unemployment in all counties? Enough evidence of the functionality of this Act, which we adapt even more to the economy with these new changes, even more we allow people on the ground to encourage investment and enable economies to develop a healthy environment in which they can advance and develop new technologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112224	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112225	Thank you very much. So here we like to talk to specific data and statistics that are documented. That's exactly the figures you've taken out in your replica. I will just say that I think that for shipbuilding, in fact, in terms of shipbuilding subsidies, the state budget has really given a significant amount of funding, and of course, this Law also serves to encourage healthy investments, new investments, to promote entrepreneurial activity and we believe that even in the continuity of the application of this Act, this effect will continue to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112226	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas for now. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first Mr. Darko Klasic, first of all by clubs, club representatives of HSLS and reformers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112227	Thank you very much once again, esteemed Vice President of HS, the distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think it is another incentive of this urgent proposal of the EC Investment Encouragement Act on 10 May this year to confirm a preliminary positive assessment of Croatia's request to pay for 700m euros under the recovery and resilience mechanism. On 15 March 2022, Croatia submitted a payment request to the Commission based on the achievement of 33 important stages and uniform values selected for the first meal in the implementation of Council decisions. The results of the reform and investment in health, social care, adult education, public administration, the fight against corruption and fiscal policy, the revision and control of the fight against money laundering, energy, transport, water and waste management, and energy efficiency of buildings are among the results achieved. The Croatian authorities in the request provided detailed and comprehensive evidence that Croatia totalled 34 key stages and target values, and the Commission gave a positive preliminary assessment of the Croatian request after a thorough assessment of this information. The Croatian Recovery and Resistance Plan includes a wide range... investment and reform in 6 thematic components, and support the plan will amount to 6.3 billion euros in grants of 13%, respectively. 18.18, 18, 18, 818m euros already paid to Croatia on 28 September 2021. in the form of pre-financing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Payments under the recovery and resilience mechanism also depend on success and whether Member States implement investments and reforms in the recovery and resilience plan, including those defined in this law. The Commission will assess future Croatia's payment requirements towards meeting the key stages and target values of Council decisions and progress towards implementation of investments and reforms. As another positive sign of European economic resilience, Croatia has achieved the first key stages and target values set out in the NPOO, and European Commission Vice-President Ursula von der Leyen stressed that this is an important moment in the implementation of the Croatian ambitious recovery and resilience plan. It is a new energy efficiency programme and the Waste Act, which supports green transition, as well as a number of measures to improve education, employment and social protection, and since the global economic and political situation is becoming increasingly uncertain to meet this Croatian reform and investment plan, which is becoming increasingly important, as well as this bill also encourages. The very reasons for its adoption under an emergency procedure primarily concern investment support users who started and implemented the projects during the Covid-19 disease pandemic. They allow this law to extend the period for the creation of new jobs related to a number of investment projects by one year. Furthermore, the additional reasons for the adoption of the emergency law also relate to the obligation to comply with the EU acquis in the area of state and regional support for the investment and removal of adverse economic consequences of the Covid-19 disease pandemic. In order to avoid the adverse consequences of the Covid-19 disease pandemic, this law further encourages economic measures in terms of the implementation of projects launched by investing in the period of the permanent pandemic of covid-19 disease, the creation of new jobs related to investment projects and attracting new projects, investments covered by the new regional support map for the period from '22. until '27, as well as an increase in the maximum aid intensity for investment in the Republic of Croatia. This bill will definitely contribute to increasing economic freedoms in Croatia, which are currently economic freedoms already significantly increased compared to the previous report. According to the, uh... Croatia ranks 45th in the world in terms of economic freedom. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is currently ahead of Romania, Hungary, France, Italy and Greece within the EU, and we are very close to Slovakia, Poland and Spain, where we need the aim of achieving the economic freedoms that exist in the Czech Republic and Lithuania. This law can also further encourage investment freedoms that depend on several factors, such as the preference of domestic investors to foreigners, which is not the case in Croatia and possibly the previous investment check, transparent framework and efficiency of implementation, restrictions on the purchase of land and real estate, sectoral investment limits, exchange rate control and capital flows, etc. Financial freedoms also depend on the level and regulation of state-owned financial services, in the banking and financial sectors, on the impact of the state on credit allocation, on the development of the capital market, and on the openness to foreign competition. In particular, I support support for the economic activation of inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia which, within the meaning of this law, make up land or buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia managed by the Ministry of State Property Management, which is not in function and where no economic activities are carried out. Inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia resulting from the intention of using support for investment projects, the economic activation of inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia will not be considered to be inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia that characterise unsettled property relations and assets on which any type of cargo and property that has in nature the status of agricultural, forest or tourist land has the highest investment potential which has been confirmed at EU level during the current crisis. In the area of JLS classified according to the value of the development index, the lease will be granted without compensation only after the Ministry of State Property Management has previously implemented public tenders for the sale of inactive assets within 90 days of the date of submission of the request for the lease of inactive assets without compensation. I repeat, support for economic activation of inactive assets also refers to inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia which is a major problem. Although the effects of this law are still yet to be assessed, the proposal's intention is in any case positive. I believe in the positive outcomes of the proposed law because it makes the European Commission's fundamental policies the most important instrument... The EU is practically translated into a concrete methodology whose role is to link general ideas to public policy practice. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HSLS will support the proposed legislation for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112228	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists and Sovereignists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112229	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, honoring state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague. We have already changed this Investment Encouragement Act in this assembly last year. There was another alignment with EU legislation, and we have to ask ourselves what really happened in those years is nothing spectacular, and in this debate, I will start from global to local. So we must also look at this law in the context of global developments and changes at international level and ask ourselves what position Croatia is and whether this position has elements that could be used to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. A time of great crisis is always and a time of great opportunity and smart states can take advantage of it very well. What has marked not only the past year but all the time since the pandemic started is a process called de globalisation. Following the shooting of supply chains and the crisis that followed in the economies, EU countries realised that certain industries must return to the EU area in Europe. And we have to ask ourselves what our Ministry of Economy is doing, what has it done so far and where is Croatia in this new EU policy? Did she clearly and loudly determine her perspective and position? In the strategies that come to us here for discussion in HS it mostly stands the same mantra, these are the basics that come to us from Europe, which is green and digital, it is broad that it cannot be broad and wider. What are and what are the concrete economic branches that Croatia intends to develop, encourage and ultimately what we need in order to achieve the objectives set then? From what we hear, finance is not a problem, you always have two limiting factors, and these are finance and human resources. There's money coming from Europe last year 800 million from NPOO, this year here's 700 million euros, so you could say that finance is not a problem, we solved that resource. But where we are about human resources, where we are about people who are trained for certain activities because what we hear all the time is missing in tourism, missing in construction, missing in IT. And what are our main branches? Tourism, construction, have jobs not to arrive, we have foreign companies that come because ours or failures or do not arrive to do all the jobs that are financed mainly by eu funds, the IT industry also says they do not have enough experts. We see that the Romans have people who come from all over the world. Where are we on human resources, and can we then realize what industries we're going to encourage to exploit all the predispositions we have? And that's the first question. Where is Croatia in the de globalisation process? But the answer is still waiting. I'm from all these strategic documents that come to us just don't see it. The next question is the structure of our economy. What are we doing to make this structure finally change? These famous structural reforms I listen to, so they keep coming out, economists have been talking about them since the 1970s, so I've been listening to them in college in the '80s. In times of crisis, this issue is updated again and again, and then as soon as the situation calms down, we go back to the way we were. All of a sudden, all of this is forgotten and Croatia is still dependent on tourism and I expect so many vehicles to enter in two weeks from June of daily counting of vehicles and tourists, journalists are moving on borders and in central information shows so many vehicles have entered, so many tourists have entered every year one and the same. How vulnerable tourism is the sensitive economic branch, we had the opportunity to see it two years ago when the epidemic occurred. And let's not fool ourselves every crisis will remind us again and again that tourism is a highly sensitive economic branch. There is no strong economy without strong industry, there is no state in the world that has become economically strong only on tourism, there is no, neither will Croatia. The only period of significant industrial development in Croatia was from the 1950s to the 1970s, which is too short to reach developed Europe. Since the 1980s, production capacities have not been increasing, they are constantly shrinking, especially in the processing industry. Despite all this, the processing industry still plays an important role in the structure of GDP, and mainly in goods exports that have grown in times of this epidemic. Accordingly, the processing industry must be the main strategic definition in the export product segment, the higher degree of finalisation and the higher added value. And it's a good thing they put it into the law, but now it's just supposed to be done, that's the hard part that always gets stuck in Croatia. The share of the processing industry in our GDP is twice as small as in Slovenia, for example. I won't even talk about Czech Republic. This law should encourage investment in the manufacturing and processing industry and this is very clearly stated there through productivity, productivity increase, through roboticisation, automation and digitisation. But we have to ask ourselves, after years, that this law is in force, and before that, we have to ask the other one whether the problem is a legal framework or something else. It's not like there's no investment you have Greenfield investment in the environment quite. But what about Croatia? Why in Croatia does all this kind of matter? Croatia is still for most investors in the unpopular ABC category—bay Croatia or anything other than Croatia. Investments come to Serbia, Slovenia, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic won't even mention them. Why, then, do Croatia go around a wide port and what is the reason for such investor behaviour? There may be a reason for parafiscal charges, administrative fees and various misunderstandings that they encounter in Croatia. And perhaps the cause is the fact that in this government there is a minister in charge of state property who is also co-owner of a project related to state property specifically the Kukari complex and is also suing his partner in the project because he is asking for 12 times the amount for his share, and he would be satisfied with a 4 times the amount offered. Would such a minister be able to conduct a public duty in an orderly state? Very difficult. And while all these strategic documents and all these investment promotion laws are in vain because investors will continue to bypass us because they simply know that in Croatia the rule of law sleeps and do not have that level of protection they have in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112230	Thank you, too. Mr. Damir Bajs will speak on behalf of the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112231	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues before us is one of the laws that should be the basis for the economy in the future. This is the Proposal for a Law on Investment Encouragement with the Final Proposal for a Law. What am I saying that for? The Republic of Croatia and all those who live here right now are facing two major problems. One is the inflation we feel, which is increasing and the other is what is related to it, which is the stagnation of the economy. The reduction and the increase, the negative rates that are already in the hints, and I would say that the state must be a friend to the economy both in the time of good and partner in the time of bad. What am I saying that for? Because the Investment Encouragement Act, in fact, has, at this point, led to an exceptional interest in e-consultation. And when the Croatian Chamber of Commerce appears, when in this case the tourism sector appears, when a lot of entrepreneurs eat and it depends on the possibility of investment, without the EU and the Republic of Croatia's resources, many investments will not even happen, then we have to ask ourselves whether we want to support the overall economy in a way that we do not set any conditions that are not necessary. In fact, when we talk about it, we're talking about what happened. ... investments in existing facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These can be investments, for example, related to production plants, but can be as much of them in the tourism sector. And that the tourism sector was perhaps the most active in this e-consumption because this moment and the costs related to construction, construction and many other things in the tourism sector will not be possible. Both on the continent and at sea. I have heard a lot of questions about whether to invest in tourism, is tourism what Croatia needs? Well, when I was a former tourism minister, I could say one thing. We have tourism, tourism can, must and should be competitive. Tourism is our export activity. We have 165 countries that compete with us and if anyone is in competition then it is certainly Croatia's tourism, and it is not a problem that it makes 15 or 20% of Croatia's GDP as it is now estimated. The problem is that in countries that have significantly higher absolute amounts than tourism, France, Italy and many others, the share of tourism is much smaller because the rest of the economy is much stronger. The fact that in the past 35% was related to investment in tourism is actually saying that effective tourism was ready to invest in raising standards that we still need. I will remind you once again, it is not only about tourism, but it is mostly about products and other plants, but it is also about investments in continental tourism and tourism at sea. I don't think we should impose such bans and make such decisions at the time when the economy is in front of large questionnaires. I am almost certain that the resources available, the question of whether they will be withdrawn at all, I am talking about this private sector that needs to be prepared, made and implemented by these projects. So this is the attitude I'd say we can't and shouldn't support it. As for the rest, I must commend, of course, some of the things they write here and should be completely clear and open. So, of course, the tourist regions that are like now, which have now been adopted, which have now been introduced into the law, are certainly a good thing. A good thing is the possibility of helping those who were so affected by this crisis and of extending their deadlines under this Law. But also, we talked a lot about how much more important craftsmen really are to Croatia, but when you look at the data from the report, it turns out that only 27 craftsmen are registered as support users. It is actually an extremely small number, completely insignificant to the totality of what should be and that part of course, the Law should go more towards having both small and large craftsmen in that part. About the disproportionateness between the withdrawal of funds, so Zagreb County, Varazdinska and others in relation to the rest of Croatia need not even speak, there should be conditions for the state to help the economy through its instruments, and I will start, I will end up with what I started with. At times when we are threatened by the stagnation of the economy, should we be afraid that the additional investments that would otherwise probably... The funds that would remain unused must therefore be limited now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is it possible that until the adoption of this law that is likely to be in force soon could be in line with EU rules and EU regulations can work, so what will not be possible now is brownfield investments and why we now, instead of open-handedly helping the economy in... which they need, we're actually limiting it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a question that I think there is no answer here and the EU rules have not changed from last week to today, it is a change within probably Croatian policy, why? This time will show, but from the total of the projects so far reached 30, almost 5%, 1/3 was related to tourism. Tourism was also foreseen in this sector of 60 billion kuna with at least 20, means 1/3, and that means that in a year when we receive a report on this Law we will only look at what is envisaged and here we will be significantly reduced. Let's help everyone who wants to work, let's take down the fences, be positive and let's go help the economy, whether in the manufacturing area, what I absolutely support and what's really the key to what's in front of Croatia, which is not to bring down tourism but to raise the rest of the production economy, and that both of them are competitive on, not Croatian, but the world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112232	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Klaric, HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112233	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Today we have heard a lack of thinking, debate, even in the breaks there have been criticism, but we all forget one fact, one fact that neither this Law itself nor any other can gain effect unless it is in symbiosis with one another, and then with all actors acting in the field of the entire Republic, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry to the units of local self-government and those operating on the ground. So often, I also said in the replica, we are critical, we often say that nothing is right, that nothing is done, but if we look at statistics a little bit, if we look at data, if we look at what is happening throughout Croatia, we see that Croatia is practically one big site regardless of the earthquakes, on Covid, regardless of all these crises we are talking about, and even the war in Ukraine. In order to talk about the development of the economy, about entrepreneurship, about everything that makes life and keeps our people living and living well in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to create preconditions. Pre-conditions are created not now this year but two decades after the war, we refer to the construction of highways, investment in railways, investing in ports, investing in what makes the blood flow of a country. The Investment Encouragement Act itself, before that we also discussed the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, leads to one goal, and that goal is slowly but surely achieved. So we have what the secretary of state said, what it says in the material, we have numbers, numbers that talk about some kind of indicators. The fact is that the unemployment rate, i.e. unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, is reduced. The fact is, according to this Law, more than 30 billion kuna was invested in the economy, that according to this data shown here, 34 thousand new jobs. The fact is that the objectives discussed are, and should in some ways be the taste of this Law and everything that will be approved by financial resources and support to the economies, to be fulfilled in some way. So we have the introduction of new equipment, modern technologies, higher employment, training of employees, development of products and services, more added value, increased competitiveness, balanced and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and then again I as a representative and local communities have to stress the role of these units of local self-government and cities and municipalities. In order to reach the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry, any economic operator called for this Law on Encouragement Investments, the prerequisite that he could invest was to be created on the ground, the area or the city or the municipality where such a thing would be realized. So one without the other definitely can't. Therefore, this law itself, which should be welcomed, especially in that part of the urgency of its adoption, since it also refers to those measures, or comes out to the economics affected by the covid crisis, could not meet those criteria, so that they could come into a position to remain without those funds. This second part, which concerns among others, is one of the reasons why these amendments and the laws are these new statistical regions, according to the government's decision of January, where the new national classification of the regions of Pannonia Croatia, North Croatia, the Adriatic Croatia and the City of Zagreb and those that remained the same in that part of the spatial units, consist of the whole of Croatia and the second level of 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. So, with the new division of all these regions, apart from the City of Zagreb, they are in the category of less developed and the proposing of what an IDS colleague here said in his replica, so it is also being considered that our GDP in these other regions is below the 75 average of the EU GDP as opposed to the City of Zagreb, and especially if we look at the perspective of allocating funds from 2001-2027. We also heard criticism here about why tourism is so much like a risky branch, so I think exactly the opposite. Croatia is a tourist country, Croatia with its infrastructure built over the past years by good connections and islands and built new highways, Dalmatia, ours down to the coast, other tunnels of Tunela Učka, now with the construction of the Pelješka bridge that simply is one of the key reasons for building infrastructure and further development of tourism, but not only tourism as a tourist, so we will have some guest destination on the island of Krk and will have to sunbathe and spend the summer there, that man must also sleep somewhere, he must lie on some bed to caricate, and then he must eat something to eat. All of this opens up a lot of other opportunities to develop other branches of the economy, which is more so than these indicators who used these funds the most, so tourism, metratreasure, woodworking industry in some way directs them towards this goal. Why, in the introduction of my speech, I also mentioned that other law, the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, because I've been angry with it since the first time it was adopted, was then Minister Maras, in some ways that law blocked local self-government units so that they could even dispose of state land with that famous 20km in a circle of inability to get land. The law is now significantly improved, but there is still that other problem, the problem of resolving, or fast-tracking, the activation of the state land, or the assignment of land or state-owned units of local self-government. Someone also mentioned the forest-economic base, the Agricultural Land Act, and what often knows how to block us. I'm saying this from a personal example because if we see that my city is 2011. Got 260,000 square meters of state land which was a stoner, a schizo, a drill and a hill to keep the land in state property still so. Now at this point on that land since 2011. To this day, there are already over 4,000 people in a half dozen years, 11 years after the contract was signed on that land, and I'm not saying that over the past year, there has been an investment of about a billion and 200 million. So these are some indicators of the direction in which it should go and I think the government recognized it, and we even have an announcement in this part of it that the county's enquiries about the amount or numbers of demands of cities and municipalities towards state property have arrived. So in any case, something that will generate further development will also be a solution to this problem of state property, and we all know that they know that well both in the Ministry of Economy and in the state of property in which that property is. On the other hand, what we have brought, and what we are relying on all these laws that can generate economic development, is if you remember the recently passed State Measurement Act where it moves towards catasters because this problem is something that definitely slows down the realization of a number of projects and then economic development itself. I did not talk too much about the law itself except for these few details because it is clear and has been adopted in some way in a very optimal form, in a way that looks at the current situation and that it can help and come out to the economy, and the proof of its effectiveness is that 30 billion kuna of total investment so far, especially in that part of the service of high additional value and 34,000 new jobs. What if I have time because I am near the end is an interesting fact that those small ones who have received less funds have opened up more jobs than the big ones, and that's something to take care of in the future. Here, thank you. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]] The MPs' club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112234	Thank you, too. Mr. Michel Jaksic Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112235	Thank you, Vice President. Honored representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, good day, nice greeting to everyone. On behalf of the SDP club, we must stress that technically and everything that is in line with EU standards is, of course, something to be welcomed and it is certain that, when we take into account the covid pandemic and how we lived in it, and it is clear that some of this needs to be done and legally so as not to open the space under a) for manipulation, but under b) as well, to protect all those who have invested and developed their business despite all the difficulties brought by Covid pandemic. There are a lot of statistical indicators, a lot of numbers, a lot of things that you may be able to catch yourself in and see in which direction everyone together should want to go, but what we also have to stress is that when we make a historical cut for 30 years of Croatian economy, we think this is not enough and that this is not the solution needed by the Croatian economy. After a change in the social, political, economic system 30 years ago, we entered from one side of the war, unfortunately, but also came the conversion and privatisation that we all know has ended, how many people have gone crazy, how many people are out of work, and what circle of people have become rich. After all, we are opening up to Europe and certain economic flows, but all this time, the constant story is that we have huge structural problems in our economic model, we see this in every European and world crisis that has spread to the Republic of Croatia, the honor of the exceptions that have become competitive in the EU market, but what is constantly being discussed remains for 30 years at the time of all governments and all political ways and wishes that tax economic policies should be conducted and that we would like Croatia and the Croatian economy to look. So even today, we have a problem of highly centralised and bureaucratized states that is visible in all of these compliances with the EU because then a lot of this still falls out of the closet, we have a huge public sector, but the public sector that the paw is held solely by the central government, so we can't say that we've done anything in the field of decentralisation, but what else, someone needs that public system and service. The Government has not yet found itself able to say that we are ready to do public sector reforms, and we all know very well that this public sector dictates on the one hand the expenditure side of the budget, but on the other hand that it also dictates income needs in the budget, and we see it best through our tax policies. Tax policies which still and only exclusively tax labour, then every minister of finance comes out with some new model that they will tax and only every time they forget to stress that these are not central government revenues, so that the government and ministers do not give up anything and that they only care about and distribute the incomes of local self-government units, as on the other hand, we now definitely have a model of taxation that is only and exclusively goes hand in hand to those who are either richer or richer and creates a framework for them to get even more. We haven't found a model that with profit tax or whether we're going to encourage decentralised and development in such a way that something stays where it was created, we haven't developed a model that with a luxury tax or a property tax or how we're going to call it, and today, especially in inflation, we see what's going on and how some rock under the weight of inflation because we can't afford what they need for everyday life, and those other enormous amounts of cash they have, now slowly, but surely transfer to real estate and here we get into a spiral of price growth, and now we don't go too far in this debate, as when we talk about VAT, we don't have enough courage to say that VAT and one part stay where it occurs, but also what we're doing in the field of VAT during this inflation crisis that we have, we have to admit that we haven't quite achieved some of the price of the year in spite of the government. And we're coming back to that situation that we have less purchasing power than there is one Slovenia or Italy, but that's why the consumer basket is more expensive with us than they are with them, and I'm not going to talk about Hungary, and I'm going to look back on that in the follow-up of my debate because there's also a lot of interesting things to say. So we haven't made a decision yet that we want to reform our public administration. Then, of course, there would be a reform of the economy that could thus become more competitive because it would surely have to pay less than it pays today to service the entire state apparatus. We know we have a health problem, we see what happens to costs, we talk about every little problem in the pension system, but so far we have not seen in any economic policy that we are ready to deal with. What I must certainly point out when we talk about the economic models themselves, that around the INA is not done enough and that we still have a situation where our oil goes to Hungary and someone decides that it will bring it back to us and we have a situation that in the Hungarian liter of fuel is 9.5 kuna, and we are waiting for the state of the Mediterranean stock exchange and whether it will hit us 13, 14, 15, 12 and don't give God, 19 kuna because we can't do anything, but we only know that we can transfer our oil to Hungary. We are getting ready for the same situation in the field of agriculture because we also have an announcement that Fortenova is going to make some changes in its parts of the business, our pension funds in one part have released a voice that they are also interested in parts of Forten, mainly for those agricultural ones, but there is also a voice that actually that part of Forten's business will take over Hungary, so it's very interesting that we might get this oil going to Hungary to get back here, so we're getting ready to do the same thing with our wheat and our other agricultural cultures, so let them go to Hungary and someone will come back to us afterwards. Why did I list those two topics? Because the time we live in today shows how important it is to work on our energy self-sufficiency, but also how important it is to work on our economy, our agriculture, our food production to support it too. In these two fields we see that there is simply no will nor courage nor desire to work to become self-sufficient even though much more developed than we are even at the beginning of the crown, and not to speak today, they have absolutely turned towards that goal alone. And for the end of my debate, I would just like to mention, it is okay to take measures that will help our economy, our entrepreneurship, mainly our small and medium-sized enterprises, but we should also point out what is happening to all of them today without these investment decisions, how they survive with the rise in fuel prices, how much the price of gas has hit them, and when we come out with a comprehensive package of measures like the government came out three or four months ago and accepted and a lot of what the opposition proposed, which is certainly commendable because we now no longer get these comments except that we see the country's income growing through increased VAT and announcements by Minister Maric that he will observe what is happening and therefore take measures. I don't think there's any point in wasting words. They showed everything through the governor's statement that it is best for citizens to buy where prices are more favourable and to assess for themselves where they will be better, and around inflation itself we have realized that Boris Vujčić has actually surrendered absolutely to Europe and that unfortunately we cannot expect any clear, rational, constructive CNB interventions to help the economy and citizens of this country in inflation such as we do not remember in modern history. Here's so much from the SDP Club, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112236	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112237	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam Secretary with an associate, as far as I'm concerned, the Social Democrats Club and I will support this and these laws safely. I tried to draw attention in my replica to the potential problems that arise for us, and there will probably be more because to implement such a law, it definitely needs a systematic approach. And I thank this fellow who mentioned it earlier, without systematic access, there's nothing we can do about it. Unless the other laws concerning education and vocational education are included, we will not achieve much. Namely, why did I ask you a question about encouraging investment to investors in areas with a lower development index? Usually, we do not have enough workforce in that area because there was a demographic devastion. If we create drives there and have greater incentives, we have created jobs, but then we are forced to move daily. What are local self-government units financed from? Tax. What is the state funded from? Taxes, right? If we're going to have daily migrations who's going to be in the plus, they're going to be in the local self-government unit from which the workforce comes. In order for the workforce to get to that place, we need to have a good traffic connection, that's the first thing. Another thing we must have is workers, or labour, who are willing to travel daily to these jobs. Here is why I asked that question in my replica, and I think that we should discuss this a little bit to see if, with this kind of approach, we have reduced the amount of incentives for investors who are going to invest in areas that have a higher level of development, whether or not we are going to really increase the competitiveness of our economy or our economy, given that those who want to really invest only in areas that have a higher growth index are actually going to get less money and the return of investment will be longer. So I don't think we're going to achieve much with that, but it's probably okay to have some calculations that point to that and show that it's good. It is primarily because of this and I agree with you that we should work with you, we should work on trying to develop an undeveloped part of Croatia, try to develop and try to create new plants in this area and create new jobs, and we are slowly starting to get our population back into these areas. As far as another question is concerned, I know that this is a directive or regulation of the European Parliament and that we are adapting to this document, but we already have a year and a half of a problem in Croatia, which is, that is, the earthquake affected areas. So the question is, was it perhaps a moment to now define additional investment incentives for these areas? We had a chance. So in the new law to define that too, to give us a chance to put these areas that have been destroyed, devastated, to try to raise them in some way in a way to further invest money in these areas and actually to persuade investors there in some way, to agree to go into these areas. Why am I saying that? Because these areas are close to major centres and there is a real possibility that there are actually free workforce in these large centres that could travel daily to these areas without a problem. And that there is some way to lift it up, and on the other hand it remains a job that we have said without, without synergy and without systematic access then there is nothing left after that in the units of local self-government that would eventually raise these drives to make some, or define some stimulating measures that would actually enable our fellow citizens, our residents who travel to those areas to settle support under more favourable conditions, of course to ensure then both school and kindergarten and everything else that would enable additional, additional incentives for construction and development and local self-government. As far as the additional questions I have here were the same question that I would ask the secretary, which is whether at this point we could think about the problems that have arisen from the war in Ukraine. Could we have been able to define the branches in which we should invest additionally because we have a problem that has really come up, which is a problem with the food industry, it's a problem with energy. Could we have done some extra steps here to maybe further stimulate it, and the same question is whether we should maybe further stimulate the production of materials and construction parts, and especially in the parts that have been destroyed by the earthquake, wouldn't it be good to have drives that will work materials and construction parts or building elements down in Banja, so that we don't have the transport costs, that we don't have the imports of these, these products, but that we have our own production, because unfortunately here we see ourselves, and we haven't yet started and it would be good to have such plants in that area, if we can do that, if we can have our own production, if we want to have our own parts, we want to have our own materials, that's a big question. Furthermore, the issues that are always being asked whether we should invest in tourism. Tourism is a risky branch, but if we want to be competitive we have to invest in tourism, so if we want to be competitive in any area we have to invest and we need to enable investors to invest in the area they are interested in. Furthermore, there is, the law also mentions the activation of state property. I believe that the proposal is also good, but what we as Social Democrats think is not good, which is that in no way will in any way be clearly activated by the state's assets which are the subject of the dispute between the state and the JLS. This should, in some ways, be dealt with urgently so that this property can be activated as soon as possible and that it can be moved to construction as soon as possible and in those areas that are of, in fact, state-owned. Furthermore, there is one question that the secretary may later be able to answer, related to the part that mentions that this law also helps economies who have fallen into trouble because of the covid crisis. In fact, the question is raised whether these businessmen also received support for the preservation of jobs, if they are how this will be later controlled and how they will be treated, what inspections they will do, what they will do, and how we will then talk to these owners and how we will treat them. There was also another data mentioned here, another data, which is that the number of jobs of small entrepreneurs, in small entrepreneurs who received support for, for job creation, is far greater than large entrepreneurs even though they took less money. But here we have to set things a little differently, the question is how much productivity is really in small entrepreneurs, and how much is in large ones. In fact, if a large entrepreneur has not opened so many jobs, and he has spent money, we can assume that this money has been invested in automation, in computerisation, in information, robotics, so that its productivity is higher, so we can't look at it so easily and say small entrepreneurs have opened up a larger number of jobs with less money because the question of how much they really contribute to our economy growth, and how much of these great economies that have taken maybe more money, but I believe that with this approach automation, computerisation, IT, robotics and all other synergy actually contribute to making our economy more profitable and contribute to making our economy more competitive. So as far as the Social Democrats Club is concerned, we will try to support this law with all these questions that we have and here which we are asking not with the goal of criticising but to draw attention to the problems that exist and which will be regularly present and the question we will give it because of these problems, and we will succeed and withdraw all the money that is available to us, perhaps if we went more systematically, if we had a different approach, not you as a ministry, but all together in the government and the rest of the ministries if we went together and put our heads together, maybe we would have a better result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112238	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Center and Voice Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112239	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So we have in the emergency procedure the final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act. I have to admit there are some parliamentary representatives or MPs who always sort of object when it comes to emergency procedures. I have to say that in this assembly, and in the past, we didn't have so many suggestions in the emergency procedure, and it has to be pointed out, and sometimes emergency procedures are necessary, and I estimate that this law is related to it. The basic law that was on investment was based on 2012 and then changed in 2015. Sometimes you have some kind of luck, but that happiness can sometimes be for you and some benefit can be for you and some flaw. There when the law went in 2012, I must admit that I was one of them who participated in the law, the idea was different than it is now. So what was the idea in 2012 and why did this law go? Because there was a problem with investment, there was a problem with procedures that were complicated, long, difficult, wanted in the country that, therefore, you must know what was in 2012 to encourage, to come to investors, especially we always wanted some investors to come out and see that these procedures were something faster and simpler, they were so-called. They lex specialis. And to be perfectly clear here, all the countries in Europe, and then I was looking at the proposal of some other countries, at some point my economic problems are reaching for such a method, and I was looking at and studying a lot of Swiss laws that were where they really went through the lex specialis to solve certain things, and that was the idea of that law from 2012. Of course, such as the impenetrable Croatian realities, it then turns into something else. You always find some flaws, always every resort says why it's a problem so then they can't go make some exceptions and then you know when you make a hole in the dam, the hole is bigger and bigger and it all goes away together. And this law that we are discussing today and that has also experienced its four changes along the way is no longer the law that was the idea, but for spilled milk it's hard to cry and things are completely different. Likewise, I am absolutely certain that today we live in those times that we call challenging times. A dozen years ago, now I'm like those old people who were 10 years ago, so then everything was wonderful, beautiful, and today nothing's wrong, I don't think it's like that, I think every time something is better and we're smarter and more skillful and everything else. Of course, unlike your own kids who haven't asked me what I think they're going to study, what I think would be smart. My niece asked me who then decided to study the building. I said enroll the building certainly, or the topic was given maybe architecture or construction, I sent it to the building or sent it counseled it itself. And I said see the 21st century will be a century where we will take care of the effects of climate change, the 21st century will be a century where we will be dealing with waste at the level of Europe, Croatia, the world, we will be dealing with waste water, we will deal with all the consequences of what man has done in space and nature, and that means that this is an ideal field of action for someone for an engineering profession that can be concrete, clear and give some improvements in that period. It was only then that the energy efficiency and everything else went to the big door. And I have to say that today when I look at and read this law and read what is written in this law and when you see today and the other day when Croatia and everything else were evaluated, it was seen that the emphasis must be on green technologies, green development and other things, and that's that. And now we come to Croatian reality, what does Croatian reality tell us? He's telling us that since 1323, we have 706 entrepreneurs to confirm our status. Whether in one country that Croatia is 1323 projects much, little, as much as it is, I don't know, I wish it were much more. So, 46.6% of users don't have confirmation of the status of users of the certificate, on the Committee on Economy that was yesterday and I somehow always try to be correct and everything I hear on the way I say and I don't want to say anything else from this pay phone that I don't normally don't say, I asked why it was so predominant. You know, there's a lot of those users who like to keep things a little longer, they have to keep some bills, and I think it's a good thing that the Ministry of Economy treats them like that because you know how to do it purely civilally, it's past something that's civil. But what I suppose the predecessors have pointed out, but I will also point out, what is a key problem for us, and I have spoken from this pay phone several times, and unfortunately what I'm wrong with, I'm going to say more, so investment projects refer to tourism. Why? Because they are simply fast, relatively obvious, formally they are opening jobs, but the question of which and how and how we have consciously deliberately decided to bind our development to tourism. And knowing that we depend on the sun, the moon, climate change, moon change, the crowns of course two years ago and two years ago we already knew, but three years ago the war. Who expected there to be a war in Europe? I think February 15th that we voted in this House who thinks there's going to be a war in Ukraine, and who doesn't, most would not be a war that started on February 24th and that will last and last. And the consequences of the war will last for decades, decades for Europe. Who will come out of this war without consequences? America and China, we'll all have consequences, but that's another topic. And that's why I have to admit to me it's always, you know that my kind of basic theme is construction, construction, and I have a feeling and somehow I'm imagining that in spatial development, spatial planning on the subject of construction is something I understand, and then when I see that 3.3% it's something that's actually alarming. In this regard, of course, this law does not apply to labour and everything else, but to what this law refers to exactly what it is, the production of products. I call it the construction material factory. Yesterday, the Fuel Plant of Styropor in Bihać and burned down, we were dealing with energy efficiency there in 2015, and when we used some new materials and other things, you know what the problem was why this energy efficiency didn't go? Because there was no building material, there wasn't, you couldn't buy it. Today they say you can't buy nails. I'm for Easter we called our friends in Australia to congratulate them on Easter which is a construction contractor there and something that seemed amazing to me that I would hear from him you know what I heard, something that in Australia six those three to six months build a house is building it I say it with a taper, because everything is different, it's not this classic building in us says there are no people and there's no material. And instead of all of us knowing together that building material is the problem we're looking at, you know, we're staring at it like that little kid who doesn't want anyone to tell him that Santa doesn't exist, and then he closes his ears and eyes and closes his eyes. It's alarming to me, it seems to me that in this law it should have been in spite of what you've said to me that those who will invest that they can do according to this law and everything else, I should have been one emphasis on that people of mine, the building is continuity, every country when it's moving into a certain development that counts, you see it by investing in the building when it goes down, you see it just as well. And from these percentages, you actually see what we've decided to do, we'll be easy. It's time we'll easily think it's over. I'm gonna end this debate on behalf of the club, and since I have an individual, then I'm gonna do something about state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112240	Thank you. Thank you very much. And now we move on to individual debates, Mrs Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112241	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritaš has finished with the construction industry, I will return to my favorite topic since I come from Slavonia it is of course the production of food, food-processing industry because it has a significant impact on the economy as a whole and if you look at it is the fifth largest export branch within the processing industry of Croatia. Despite continued export growth, however, what we must all be concerned about is the trend of slowing down export growth and the decline in competitiveness of the food sector of the Republic of Croatia. And that share of the food industry in GDP is constantly dropping, regardless of what we have absolutely all predisposition to be the opposite. So Croatia has the predisposition that exactly the food and processing industry will be a blocker that will start the entire economy, and it can mainly be done because of the multiplier that is significant in this industry. We must not ignore the fact that Croatian food companies have received huge competition from European countries by entering the EU, and these are mostly large economies that provide their companies with a certain platform and incentives where I am running today between the thematic session and here at the plenary session because the three committees' thematic session is just talking about the problems our economy faces in this extremely high price growth of all import raw materials in all segments, as well as in the food and processing industry, and there is now and a certain thesis that there are certain hidden support in certain economies which are then exposed to our companies. Which in this context would have to be the goal of Croatia and Croatia's economies, which is that our food industry must actually be created through other and such programmes and in such laws to strengthen market competition with strong competition in the EU and through EU funds, targeted programmes for the food industry that we have always neglected, so it has been neglected in the NPOO, and after this debate that we had at plenary and post-insistence, several clubs have returned and have separated more significant funds because only in this way can we support and provide what this industry can provide, which is additional employment, creating new values and overall economic contributions. What we cannot ignore is the importance of this industry for the safety and supply of the population with food. It is the best consciousness of this epidemic, and the war in Ukraine has further potentiated it. So we've been talking about the potential shortage of certain key raw materials for the food industry since the start of Russia's invasion into Ukraine, especially the oil shortage. And now what's going on in Croatia? We've got enough hot olives, this year even more than it was last year, but we don't have enough capacity to process, so we're gonna take out the olives and then we're gonna import the oil. And it is unfortunately only one in a series of examples such as in Croatia there are too many, there are simply too many. What we must also point out in this debate is the fact that the productivity data in the EU food industry that the European Commission regularly publish suggests a significant lack of the Croatian food industry in productivity that shows a significant lagging in relation to other EU countries. And that means this and the laws that are in today's debate must give an additional impulse to the food, processing industry in order to increase its productivity and to come to that level of EU average. Currently, we are at some 51% of the EU's productivity average in this industry. So all these desires that are strong exporters like Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Austria have far higher productivity And they're far more competitive. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112242	Thank you. You have replicas, Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112243	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. So, you come from Slavonia, always in your speeches you refer to Slavonia. Slavonia is indeed in some perception of us all younger generations probably not, the younger generations will follow as the space most people have moved out of, but when we go back a little bit, it was always the topic of something where food was produced. But food production isn't just the production that's on the oranics, food production is still on. And that's where the topic opens, I'll remind you of the topic of sugars that we've easily closed. So let's listen a little bit so we're not one niche, one appendix, everything that's going on in Europe and the world will have an impact on us. Everyone's saying we're being threatened by hunger. We are being threatened by hunger, let's all get together and see what we can do to make this impact on Croatia as small as possible. Now's the time, not when it happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112244	Time, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112245	Thank you very much, dear colleague Dark Taritash. I often point out that we in our agricultural and food production are about like a football team that has defences and attacks, and there is no law. Now imagine our football team without Luke Modric, she really wouldn't have followed these results. You opened one very important question because it's not just higher added value but through a whole series of these plants that were in these cities like Orahovica, Slatina, meaning in smaller places that employed there labour we actually opened up a huge space for emigration by closing those plants and those production facilities because simply people if they don't have where they're going to work, they'll go where there's work. And it's not just sugar candy, it's a whole series of various industrial plants that have been closed since the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112246	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112247	Dear MPs, you have touched one issue that is extremely important. I already said that in my discussion when I was talking about the problems that occurred after the war in Ukraine. And I'm glad you brought it up because it's not enough just to talk about the processing industry and the food industry, we have to talk about the stables, we need to talk about pig farms, we need to talk about poultry farmers. Why would we buy chicken wings on the stock market in I don't know... Or I don't know somewhere else when we can have our own production at home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all those initiatives from field to table, beautiful, but we also have to have this initiative to have production with us and that actually ends it all together with the final product at our table. And to link it to tourism, then we have it all round together. And then it makes sense to invest. So I say we need one systematic approach that I mentioned in my debate. Without systematic access, there's no luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112248	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112249	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic. We, our farmers were not ready to join the EU as the Croatian economy today is not ready to enter the euro zone. And we warn that, but no one can hear us. It was said and then. We are meaning before entering the EU are direct payments, or incentives as they are loved so coloquially called they amounted to 2 billion kuna. Today it's 7 billion kuna, and you can see for yourself what the results are. Our dairy sector is knee-deep, literally on its knees, and there is no indication that there should be any positive shifts. Direct incentives, direct payments that are per hectare killed our livestock industry and until something changes there is no forward. Unfortunately, we will continue to import chicken from Poland or from the frozen Brazil that has been frozen for several years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112250	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Anka's turn, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112251	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with my co-worker, colleague and colleague, as I had already discussed on behalf of the club, I said that I would use these five minutes for a topic which I am very happy to talk about, but I am already boring myself, and that is the theme of investment in inactive, inactive state property. And let's take it in a row. So that the state has some property we know of. Does the state know how much he has, he doesn't know. Do we know we want to activate it, we know. If we have ways and tools, I'm afraid we don't. One of the main obstacles that the obstacle is, are unresolved property legal relations. But let's go back a little or I'll go back to this law. So, there in 2015 one of the topics of this law either, says measures to economically activate inactive state property was one of such footnotes of that law. And now I'm reading this new law that we have, which has actually made all of these previous changes in one place and you get to Article 5, and then you get support, which is what all of this applies to, and lastly, the economic activation of inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia is mentioned. Why is it too last? Because we are aware that this investment has as little as possible. I ask you all together, ask and imagine myself that at one point a corporation, one association, and tells us to go and we want to make two photovoltaic cell factories in Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, photovoltaic cells and the installation of photovoltaic cells on buildings regardless of private, public, multiple will be the subject for sure next decade. Why? Because when, because it's relatively simple to set them up, you don't have to do any additional installations on the building because you can put it directly on the roof and tie it to the clock, so it's relatively easy to do. Through them you can have a heating system, a cooling system, a hot water production and whatever else I had recently heard that one of the associations said, but it will collect the construction and everything else. My colleagues and colleagues, the war in Ukraine has shown us sensitivity to gas, we're heating up on gas. Why? Because he was easily available to us and because he was cheap to us. The war in Ukraine has shown that it is actually a colourful lie because the majority of Europe is not heating up on gas, heating up on other sources of energy. So, and to get back on this topic, imagine if someone came and said I made a corporation, we want to produce photovoltaic cells here, come on, come on, come to the Ministry of Economy and say, "Let the Secretary of State who is in charge of state property come to see where this Croatia has state property at its disposal, I need, I don't know, a few acres there, couple, I want to have a hectare in Bania, I don't know anywhere." You know what the answer is? Put your shoulders down, or you don't know, or you've solved property dealings or you've got 122 problems, there's no front for us until we know what we're dealing with, which is why it's a matter of state property. There, of course, I referred to 2012-2013, there was a provision that allowed and said that if there was a dispute on property between the state and JLS to take that property because of the provision. The 19th century 1 clearly states that state property, which is absolutely in the sense that it must be, must have absolutely resolved property relations. At that time, there was one provision if there were unresolved property relations between the state and the JLS that it was not a challenge to place the property in office, to ensure a special account to be defined until the dispute was resolved. Imagine, imagine your colleagues and colleagues, let's try it real. That investor comes in and says, and there's a hectare, great, great says, but we can't, why can't we, so because there's a community, I don't want to make someone, I don't insult someone, they're in a dispute with the state. They think we're crazy 'cause we don't want to put property in their hands if the state is suing the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112252	Time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucimilovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112253	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, you have opened a very important topic, which is the management of state property and how much we can expect that there will be some changes if we have a new minister who is personally involved in a project related to state property, so he decides on the project, and he sues his partner because this partner does not want to pay him the sum he asks for four times, he offers him four times, he asks for 12 times more, and he would be satisfied with 4 times what his partner offers him. How will this affect Croatia's picture as a country to be invested in, and will it encourage investors to come to Croatia or will they continue to bypass Croatia in a wide port, so here's what you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112254	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112255	Thank you very much, colleague Vukemilovic. Not only is he not going to encourage investors who want to invest other than those who want to come and go and put some of this into place. I know on the way I also met investors who, whose idea was coming to Croatia, came to announce a project, came up with some suspicious paper they got and then sued the Republic of Croatia for the damages that counts in millions of euros, there are such investors who exactly come into this country, knowingly and deliberately entering into a project that they don't have and then have such litigation and then finally there's a deal. But a colleague, or Minister Paladin, gives a message to our people who really have an idea, they say now we're going to go into investment, don't invest, take a closer look at his model, so his entry into that project was zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112256	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112257	Dear MPs, I would only once more look back at the needs that emerged after the start of the war in Ukraine. We've already mentioned, we've got energy problems, we've got food problems, there's been an opportunity for this law to get a little bit further into it, to get a little bit more attention, and look, here you have additional stimulation, so past the regulation, you have additional incentives to invest in an energy-related industry and you have additional incentives in the food processing industry, that's not done. As for energy, you said yourself that gas addiction wasn't good. We have an opportunity to turn to the other side, today we're talking about electricity, we're talking about some other sources, I'm not going to list everything that's going on, but we need to make sure we have a systematic approach to developing a new one, meaning completely new energy sources. If we don't have it ourselves, we won't achieve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112258	Thank you very much, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112259	My colleague Pavić, so what if we were to evaluate this realistically, so let's say that we now see some conditions and some characteristics, the system doesn't live in the Republic of Croatia. Systemic solving or problems or detection, so proposing, and solving the situation in some other countries and on some other occasions, but not here. We always have one pot of water like that, and then when the fire gets really hot, then with that little pot of water, it doesn't go any further. What you said when you spoke on behalf of the club I will repeat it and often repeat, what kind of country we want... 2030 is tomorrow, what kind of country do we want in 2050? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need you to know that today because then it depends on what kind of education we're going to have because of education, today we're going to go to school where they're going to work in 2050, and then they're going to be in some kind of voltage and they're going to work. What do we want, what are these incentives, not with a pot of water but systematically?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112260	The people will pay for it, they will pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112261	No glass, no pot, no nothing, and no more glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112262	We'll make, we'll, we'll, we'll make a deal later, we'll buy a glass, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112263	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112265	Sorry. We'll buy a glass, okay? Thank you. [[Intruder: Sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112266	But the time was up and the time was up. Mrs. Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112267	That's who I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112268	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, you spoke of unresolved property rights as a reason for the inability to invest in state property. What exactly do you think is causing these property legal relations to fail? Unsolved garter, or land book, bad public administration, or bad legal solutions regarding that property? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112269	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112270	Thank you very much, when I was talking, colleague Nadj when I was talking about the pot, I was thinking about that little tin, but I was banging my hand that she left at the end of the glass. Now I'm going to step back, this is some, this is a topic where I'm kind of imagining that I know something and then I'm using this pay phone to point out the problems that are. [[/Intruder: No, no.]] I'm ready to sit down, I'm ready to talk, I'm ready to point everything out. So, since 2000, we've been on the subject of catastrophe. I finally got a month ago that I could handle the real data from the State Geodetic Administration as much as the catastre was taken care of. Don't be lazy, I've divided a few numbers, 116 years it takes us to take down the cadastre, but we forget that for those, that time life goes on, that maybe what we've done doesn't work out. We forgot the grantovnica completely. Why? We don't care about socialism. Instead of being a single project together. Let's put our heads on the pile, use our models, Austria did it, we're the smartest in the world, and we're exactly where we are, nowhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112271	Mr. Marin Lerotić. Here comes the glass. No, no, we won't, though [[Not while I'm gone, then put on a glass.]] It could've been plastic. [[/Intruder: Hold on.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112272	Thank you. Dear...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112273	We're kidding. [[Intruder: Yes, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112274	...coworkmates Mrak Taritash mentioned a series of problems and the problem is unresolved property legal relations, but also the problem that sometimes the state doesn't even know what's available. However, there is another problem that may be the biggest, which is that the state knows what is available, such as Munzil, I mentioned to Minister Marić last week, who agreed with me and where the units of local self-government have brought all necessary spatial plans to make this land very valuable and I say makes a fifth of the city's surface of Pula a concession where the state would benefit from both concessions and VAT and investment and employment, and unfortunately it stares empty, or as I said then a few soldiers kept it a big, big space and unfortunately looks at the grass as it grows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112275	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112276	Thank you very much, colleague Lerotić, for your question. So he was part of an asset that he could very easily put into function that was so-called. The property that the military used before. Otherwise, in your spatial plans, it was always a white, gray stain because in spatial plans it was some sort of special purpose. It was very simple, through spatial plans, that gray stain could have turned into something else because it was detected as a construction but now that I'm not strangling you what it means in the spatial planning system. But I often, too often have a feeling you know as opposed to when you have your property you know exactly what you have, exactly how you're going to put it into operation, you know exactly whether you're going to sell it or you're going to rent it or you're going to rent it, that the state is doing everything that doesn't put the property into operation. It's as if it works even when spatial plans are in place, even when property legal relations are resolved, even when all together agree both state and county and municipalities and the city, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112277	Thank you very much, thank you. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112278	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act provides the necessary framework to improve investment conditions, a system of incentive measures and support and a general investment environment for continuous increase in the number and quality of investment projects implemented in the Republic of Croatia. However, it should be recalled that we had the Investment Encouragement Act in 2015, before that we have the Investment Encouragement Act and the Updating Investment Environment of 2012. Since then approved projects and in processing 1,323 totalling 55.8 billion kuna with the planned opening of 33,981 new jobs. If we look at the statistics a little bit how many of these projects were in tourism, I'd say only 14.7%. The problem is likely, among other things, that acceptable investment costs are exclusively building costs on the basis of a building permit. We just heard from the secretary of state just because of some comments in the e-consultation, it was added that it is also possible, based on the confirmation of the main project and the purchase of new equipment, to also request and get an incentive to its investments. However, a building permit is not necessary for all construction works that can be carried out in the light of the Regulation on simple and other buildings and works that allow construction works to be carried out without a building permit and/or without the main project. So we know that it is also possible for hotelers to have the need to build additional children's, sports playgrounds, terraces, vaults, promenades, also invest in a solar collector system or containers for municipal waste and a pool of ground floor area up to 100 square meters does not need a building permit but just a confirmation of the project. If we know that in the Republic of Croatia we currently have about 48% of the total number of 2 and 3 star hotels, we know that a significant investment cycle is needed to profile our country as a high-quality destination, and this is also in line with the tourism development strategy. In order to raise the quality of the tourist offer, of course, a number of hotelers will decide on only construction works on existing facilities and therefore I think it would be good to expand that concept that defines acceptable investment costs, as well as the NPOO since 2021-2026 encourages existing investment in reconstruction and reconstruction of the facility. Furthermore, we have another problem when we talk about a building act when a building permit is based on legal interest, it also includes a solution to property relations, then we know that we have a number of hotel houses that have unsettled property relations on tourist land, and we also have maritime goods for which a single investor is interested in investment. If we also know that tourism is one of those branches we had and we proudly said that we have the greatest growth since Croatia, for example. In the third quarter of 2021, we had this biggest growth among 21 Member States of as much as 15.8% of GDP and that this particular tourist season contributed to that, then I think we need to see with special attention the way and the possibility to invest and help investors who would invest as I said in their existing capacities that have lower categorisation because they are also if they are, of course, one of the conditions that corporate tax bonds with a new and higher category will also need new employment and new jobs. 2021 C.E. We said and we know that it was far better tourist than it was before, we even had almost 14 million tourists and 77% more guests and arrivals and 55% more overnight stays. I believe with these additions and amendments to this law to contribute that in the next period we have an even greater number of employees Even more interested in investment in tourism. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112279	Thank you. You have a series of replicas, the first replica of Mrs. Ljubica Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Only a productive and innovative economy can adapt to global change, we are all aiming at increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and therefore this new legislative proposal that harmonizes national legislation with the legal gains of the EU, on the other hand, mitigates the negative economic consequences caused by the covidom-19. But what I would particularly refer to is new regional support, these are four new NUTS 2 regions where finally and the economies of my Pannonian region will certainly find themselves in a more favourable position than before and where the injustice of the former SDP government will be corrected, which has just been applied to the entrepreneurs of those regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112281	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112282	Thank you very much. So just like my colleague Maximchuk, here's your Ship-Posavina County now belongs to Panon Croatia, for example. for Panonska, Croatia will receive 50% support, while the City of Zagreb will receive 35% support. Before this new ticket to the same group was your county and the City of Zagreb and of course, in your county, entrepreneurs were entitled to far less support. Equally, medium-sized entrepreneurs even achieve 60% and a small 70% support from the City of Zagreb where only 55% of the support can be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112283	Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112284	Dear colleagues. Thanks to the new division of the Republic of Croatia into four statistical regions, higher amounts of support in the economy for Pannonia and Northern Croatia in these two statistical regions of GDP are below 50% of the EU's average GDP per capita. You are a representative in HS who comes from the Adriatic region of Croatia, so do you find it justified that the support intensity rises from 25% to 50% for Pannonian and North Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112285	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112286	Thank you very much, Comrade Dragon. Well, here's what I did before to my colleague Maximchuk, and now you've mentioned my Adriatic Croatia, in Adriatic Croatia, a large entrepreneur has 40% of the support compared to yours where 50 is and I think that's fine, although I've just been on the stand for the changes relating to tourism, but we know very well what GDP is, and I was here and in the debates when we brought this new national classification, it was 2019. and precisely thanks to the coordination of both mayors, mayors and governments and the great hearing of the government to put it in a different way, I think this is much and fairer and will bring a much earlier even development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112287	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112288	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Here we are aware that investments and the interest of investors are not the same in all parts of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia promotes even regional development, so a map of regional support for 2022 was made. and Sibenik-Kninska and Ličko-Senj County are in the Adriatic region. And what I am pleased is that certain specificities are respected and certain, so that Licko-Senj County as a rarely populated county has the possibility of using the maximum aid intensity and 50% acceptable investment costs, 60 for medium and 70 for large businesses instead of 40, 50, 60 as in the Adriatic region. I expect that this will be an incentive and an invitation for investors to recognise Lika-Senj County as an attractive place to invest, which will certainly help the changes in this law in question, for example. Lowering the registered unemployment rate threshold for use maximum support intensity. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112289	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112290	Thank you very much, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. So here I am also saddened to see that the most reported projects say they are realized in the City of Zagreb, and unfortunately neither in yours nor in my county have any projects realised, so we see if the City of Zagreb has 23%, then Zagreb County is 10% and then goes Split-Dalmatia with 10 and Međimurska with 5%. I hope this law will still encourage investors to apply and implement something on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112291	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112292	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. Here you have mentioned, in your debate, of course, tourism and everything tourism means to the Republic of Croatia, but also the problems facing tourism and in the present situation not only pandemics but we also see today and inflation and everything that in some way bothers the Republic of Croatia, but also much wider and the whole of Europe in the final and the whole world. But regardless, tourism has shown endurance and last year we had 14 million arrivals, or over 80 million overnights, which was certainly an increase of 55% of overnight stays, or 77% more arrivals than in the 2020 pandemic year, although even then 10 billion kunas were not spent. Right now and through this law, but also the NPOO and the introduction of the euro, I believe that we will make these investments and the security of the Republic of Croatia for Croatian tourism even stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112293	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112294	Thank you very much, Comrade Mazhar. Well, it's exactly what you've stated about tourism, and as I said when we speak and boast about the two-digit growth of GDP, one of the basic reasons is just to ensure an excellent tourist season. I also hope that the development of tourism will in due time not only be on the coast of the islands but also that Continental Croatia will grow more and better in the tourist sense and better positioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112295	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112296	Dear colleagues. It may not be a question for you but more for the promoters, but here we have it in art. Chapter 19 8, Supports for the economic activation of inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia where up to three million euros can even be obtained for the activation of state property. Have you learned about the possibility of applying local self-government units for these support or is this exclusively for entrepreneurship, or is it necessary first to obtain from the state the use of state property, and only then to seek support or order? I'm asking about the neighbor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112297	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112298	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112299	So you can answer yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112300	Thank you. Well, as far as I could read it should first be in the profit tax system is as an entrepreneur and that's a condition, and then certainly local self-government units aren't. But probably the secretary of state will say more about it through their final exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112301	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State will see that there's some fly in there too... I've already given her three warnings once more interrupting the session and I'm calling the guard to throw her out because she's moving right here. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112302	Thank you very much. Comrade Martinchev, here we are talking about the final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act and you have cited the history and adoption of this law and its effects, and you have singled out just tourism as part of which may remain intact with this law and you have cited examples that might also help us bring more of what we may expect and tourism as one of the most important branches where we have really invested as a country really great resources to preserve jobs in this sector. Is this bill going to make it possible, or is it necessary to do something about it and react to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112303	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112304	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. And so do you who and I come from an area where I am happy to say that there is no citizen who does not live on tourism and on tourism. I think exactly how an article is added, or part of an article in which it is said, except on the basis of a building permit, it can, on the basis of the confirmation of the main project, make something more and better possible. However, if I am to point out once again and the NPOO encourages investment in existing facilities, the Tourism Strategy also says it would be necessary to raise existing capacities to a higher level. I don't think it would be a bad idea to reconsider and include an article that will allow and extend a term that will allow for the reconstruction of existing buildings and raising quality, or construction and construction works and all of those objects that I have listed, which need neither the confirmation of the main project nor the building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112305	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you for now. Mr. Zekanovic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112306	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed promoters. Here I read a little... Art. I have to admit, 19th, I didn't catch much. Now there's a fly sitting on me. Do something But the interesting thing about this is that it's interesting, otherwise you have more glass here leads of crime are still here, and here's fellow Taritash. [[We'll interrupt the session.]] Here I would refer a little bit here to what I've asked the question in the replica of the esteemed proposer. So we often point out that tourism support is actually a bad thing. No, I think tourism is actually one branch that we have to cultivate, and if we see one sector that keeps growing in the world it's tourism, so we have more and more tourists, more and more global GDP is being created from tourism, people are traveling more and more, and so this tourism is going to grow. I think that one day when we don't know how to evolve to some degree of development that maybe 80% of people will be engaged in tourism or be tourists, maybe more, maybe 100 because actually being a tourist isn't bad but good and what humanity is progressing, which is richer and more developed society tourism will be like the resor sector more represented and let's not run away from it, let's not run away from it, especially in the context of this, I pointed out in the replica we have regions and cities, I mentioned Venice that generates income greater than Croatia than tourism, one Prague, Paris, could list by tomorrow, that many regions, cities, and even countries, for example. Malta achieves, lives almost and exclusively from tourism and they lack nothing, but let us not neglect other branches of the economy through these incentives, we invest, of course, in everything else, especially in industry, and when I say industry, I mean, of course, since we state are poor resources to those ecological healthy industries, to entrepreneurship, to IT technologies and so forth. And another thing that's very important, I haven't been able to admit the whole bill because this is how I went through and listened to the promoter, I'd like to make a distinction, and I didn't find it here between brownfield and greenfield investment. When we speak, for example. about concrete tourism we are often inclined to build a hotel on some intact land, our main resource is exactly the space we have to store and preserve and I would even put in there some moratorium for a new building land or would introduce an extremely large control that is declared a building land, on the other hand, would also encourage through this law any investment in land that is already being spent so-called. Brownfield investments and that's where we have to go, so not that someone's building somewhere tomorrow accommodation capacity, factory or anything else in the middle of nowhere where there's a natural landscape but let's stimulate entrepreneurs to build, let's invest where the space has already been used. I will say one example here is my Sibenik where here in the procedure is an extremely large project, a project of valorisation or revorisation of Zone Batižele Novi Sibenik – Step into the future where one spent space, an industrial space is trying to function again this time through a mixed zone and such projects should be stimulated, of course not only by them, but let them be, let it be a priority. You fellow Lerotić listens to me, he knows what I'm talking about in Istria because it's an extremely big problem or we have to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112307	Thank you, too. You've got one replica of Mrs. Devereaux. It's called "Dreven Buddinski."
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112308	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, here you have said that the most support goes to tourism, and here I would add a little bit more that we have a little bit of statistics, that we have a metra-recycling industry 14.4%, IT 12%, wood processing industry 11, 10%, machine and equipment production 7.1% and the food processing industry 6.2%, so these are investments, but also one would have to look at the dynamics and realization of the project and obtaining user status... depends primarily on users themselves, since they are at their disposal to make maximum use of all the benefits of the law, so here it is to hear. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112309	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112310	So of course the entrepreneur must always adapt to the law, but the law must be adapted to the entrepreneurs, it should be one synergy. Whoever wants to deal with entrepreneurship will see little and legal regulation and ić in this direction, on the other hand, we as a legislative body must see what the interest of entrepreneurship is and of course go to legislative proposals on the hands of entrepreneurs, so there is no one or another, so there must always be a combination or synergy between the legislative body, it is us and those who deal with entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112311	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Mr Tomislav Klaric is on his way, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112312	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have heard practically everything about this law from the State Secretary, from debates in front of clubs and from these individual debates. It is clearly indicated why we are going to this new bill and, in essence, it is often pointed out that evidence of the quality of work so far is these 30 billion kunas of total investment in high added value and 34 thousand new jobs. I would rely here on this law and what I was saying in my debate, which is JLS, which in some way creates a foundation on which to further build or develop an economy, or all those economic operators who enter the package of these encouraging investments, will place their facilities. So, in addition to all of this, we have a branched network and different models as JLS each in its area encourages exactly this, so we have the release of the municipal contribution, we have the part that relates, I say this for a reason because it is often not known in the public so JLS, cities and municipalities that actively participate in the development of the economy, and in fact they are the generator of this development as much as we have been skeptical of them, so we have models of the release of communal contribution, the reduction of or minimum coefficients of municipal compensation for production activities, the incentive prices for land production activities in post-industry zones where the minimum prices for production are somewhat higher for service activities, warehouses and all the additional, and the highest prices for commercial activities. So, cities and municipalities are the ones that create the foundation, in order to create it then must be in this kind of package of all these measures, i.e. have a self-port by both governments and ministries, and in that part when we talked about solving property relations or state property that is also listed in this law as one of the models of being put into office, which would mean that inactive assets would in any case generate and GDP growth, strengthening the JLS budget, but also a larger number of jobs. Anyway, to share according to, there was a lot of debate here here, I see a colleague from the IDS mentioned the criteria of the development index, and fortunately here it wasn't expressed the way it was until about ten years ago when practically cities and municipalities that were with the development index were much larger could virtually not even think about running for certain projects to realize all of this. In this section through these four statistical regions which are now in the new bill, and ousting out of Zagreb in that part of the incentives except for large projects, I think it's a good solution. In any case today's debate as often as there has been some critical tone, it has largely in no way refuted the so far quality or the realization of all these projects, the fact that it has gone to the maximum for both economies, the economies in these times and some crisis of people and all that could have caused difficulties in the realisation of their projects. In the end, what we all need is to be, and what is stated in this bill is the objectives. The objectives are clearly defined with new equipment, modern technology, higher employment, training of employees should be considered and therefore I left it to end. What these same businessmen face, but we in the field, there are no workers. It is increasingly a question of businessmen who come to our area whether there are enough workers, whether we have enough qualified workforce and this is one of the impulses, and if it can be one of my contributions to thinking about you in the Ministry of Economy that we are all thinking together because recently with all these investments, with all the building planned, with such a hasty and large investment cycle The government of the Republic of Croatia has launched the possibility of a significant labour shortage. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112313	No, stay, stay, you have replicas. Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112314	Thank you. Dear colleague. You have been to Slavonia several times, and you know the economic situation and economic development in us, but we Slavons hope that this fairer division of statistical regions will make economic progress. We officials in local self-government units in Brod-Posavina County have really brought a number of measures for potential investors or investors, but there are very few investors who are not interested. So here's colleague Klaric, is this law we are discussing today at least going to contribute a little bit to the balanced development of the economy in our beautiful homeland?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112315	Well, I'm sure they will, except in the part where I think the money is obviously enough, so the funds and not so much of the problem of how much the realisation and preparation of the projects is, and I think that there are so many contacts, I have a lot of contacts with the number of cities and municipalities in Slavonia that they are very active, that they have a large number of projects and that they are really artificially attracting European resources, and so are the businessmen. The fact is that we did not have a war, so neither did we have the part that our area in some way stopped their wheel of development for years, and we generated a new development, and that doesn't necessarily mean that with the development of both the Istrian and the Primorje-Gorski and let's say so. Adriatic Croatia will not generate development [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] Slavonia. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112316	I'm also retroactively giving you my word that you can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112318	Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112319	Thank you. Dear colleague Klaric. Here I am glad that even here in HS all those who listen have the opportunity to hear the experiences of the longtime mayor of the city of Bakar. You yourself initially mentioned your experiences in carrying out activities that enabled the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the arrival of investors in your city. How is your experience, which has helped you most to attract investors and what do you do all you can to keep them in your city once they get here? And how is this present-day investment incentive law to support cities and municipalities in order to attract investors? Here's what would you end up being a man with a lot of experience, the mayor of the city who's famous for investment projects that you'd like to tell those who aren't so successful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112320	Thank you very much. You have to answer to tell us how you would attract investors, and I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112321	Is that what you're interested in? I was in a situation similar to what a colleague from Slavonia said, at the time we sold land for practically one euro, freed 100% of the municipal contribution, prepared terrain and land with all the infrastructure to get to us. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]] At this moment, land prices range from 70 euros to as much as 200 euros per square metre, and only the municipal revenues of the city, which at that time had a budget of 15 million kuna, are now 30 million just utility revenues. So that's one of the indicators of how. And I think your character, given that I've spent part of my war days there too, so I'm familiar with your end with your potentials that are up there, and especially with people who know well that they're valuable and self-sacrifice has very high capacity to run and generate the same kind of development that we do down in the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112322	Thank you. Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112323	Thank you. Here I have to express my deep concern and I really want you to respond to how you view it, by the fact that under innovation activities, new investments are financed, greenfield investments in tourism, hotels, aparthotels, camps, nautical ports, so on. So, in a country where the coast is really already devastated, where every piece of this coast is put into a function of tourism, where we have a prevalent in large parts of the coast exclusively tourism as a basic economic branch, where children no longer have to end for example ETF or some technical college what to do in these cities because tourism is the main branch, we from public funds encourage investment in greenfield, ok that brownfield, but in greenfield new hotels, aparthotels, nautical ports and camps. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112324	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112325	And what bothers you? Do you mind the kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the budget of cities and municipalities? Do you mind working? Do you mind thousands of tourists and vehicles paying for Croatian highways? Which tank the fuel in, at the gas stations? Do you mind these farmers in Slavonia who produce food that these same tourists eat? ... Yeah, yeah that, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112326	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112327	Do you mind the manufacturer of olive oil because practically 100% of the Croatian market in olive oil is supplied from the area of Istria, the island and those areas where it is produced in our settlements. Try talking to your colleagues from Istria, do they mind? Is Istria cut off from developing this form of economy in its area?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112328	Mrs. Bencic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112329	Article 238, insult of the representatives. So, sir, I think that, as you don't understand, you are the key resource of this country, and that's what space and people have put into operation exclusively one economic branch and you're asking me what's bothering me. It bothers me that our children from that shore won't be left with anything. It bothers me that we give the public money to big hotel concerts so that they can make investments in the greefield. I mind that brownfield that existing buildings, existing hotels until then fail. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]] It bothers me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112330	Thank you, Mrs. Bencic. Thank you. It was a replica. you cannot answer [[I can get one?]] And you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[- Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] And you're pulling, okay. [[All right, here we go.]] Everybody pulls You will, and the replica, please. [[No, I'm not pulling the line.]] Here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112331	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Klaric, has some who have a problem with everything. They're getting in the way of this law, and that's why I can't do anything. Look The City of Zagreb can't pick up the garbage, they can't cut the grass, so they say they don't do it for climate change, they invent reasons why they're bad at managing a big city. You are one mayor who, by his or her town, has created one of the largest entrepreneurship zones in his mandates, I don't know who you are for 5-6 of these years, you will certainly be opening 1,000 new jobs and you don't mind. You don't mind this law either, you think it's good, as well as the law that regulates relations within entrepreneurship zones, building infrastructure because you knew how to use it. To those who are bothered by everything, it's just the kind of successful people who can, unlike them who know everything in theory, when they come to practice, they're just like one Silver Man, investing in one hospital and telling us what 500 million kunas are going to do, we're not going to break the contracts any better, it's all someone else's fault. Instead of doing something. Does this law help you or You're relieved as a local leader? [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112332	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112333	A brief answer, this law helps us as well as cities and municipalities, but it also helps the owners to see it from among other things, but it bothers me terribly, it bothers me terribly this morning when I come out of the apartment of a pile of garbage and everything around them dirty, unblemished Zagreb has never looked like this, that I don't even talk about running projects, given that cities and municipalities that have only 10,000 inhabitants have more projects than our own metropolis here, the City of Zagreb. That's what bothers me. And I don't even mind when someone calls out for what they're investing in tourism for because it's obviously malicious and it wants to offend the work of those who work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112334	Injury of Mrs. Bencic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112335	I know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that the gentleman here in question is lying, that I tell you a little bit about the projects. The projects for the former financial perspective were prepared by Bandic and you concluded that it is not worth your while because it cannot be stolen. Secondly, let's take a look at the distribution of municipalities that the municipalities have received money for infrastructure, so when we see who is in power in these municipalities and how all OLAF will be awarded, what will be discovered in all your ministries including Butkovic, and then we'll talk a little bit about how they are. money from European funds distribution. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112336	The second warning by default again was a replica. Notice, I've seen another warning, that no, the injury, the warning, I'm saying it in advance, but here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112337	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Bencic hurt Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure because he insults the MPs, says here that he is not for projects because of which he cannot be stolen. A colleague has already been elected mayor five times, probably because his citizens recognize his work, not because he steals. Your colleagues Benčić can't even get flowers to plant around Zagreb without talking about this project of Srebrenica that is failing is in the interest of all citizens of the City of Zagreb, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112338	Thank you very much, thank you. I'm activating that warning I gave you in advance. So it's a warning because it was a replica. Please, you want to make five minutes, you want to make five minutes, just a little bit, five minutes this Let's get some rest from all those, 'cause I mean really. [[Why now that I am?]] Let's have a nice replica of Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, that sometimes it's no problem to get money but when you get to them for being with them, that's where I think it's becoming a problem, and then it's accused of, of course, the others that everything wants to steal or something else. I even have a solution for cutting grass in, in Zagreb. We who come from Slavonia do well with trimmers, lawn mowers, and on Mondays, until the work of the assembly starts we could put ourselves at the disposal of the municipal company in Zagreb, no problem, we will do so from the heart if we are such people, but joke aside. There are great differences of course in the geographical position of Croatia, comparing the Adriatic part of Croatia, especially this part where you come from and that rural part from which I come is very difficult. I think that through some new legal provisions we will have to go one more step further and make it easier for those who really want to invest in Lika, Banovino, Slavonia, that what costs in Zagreb 100 may cost 50 there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112341	I agree completely with you, that I would not be completely dissatisfied with Zagreb, I was really happy and happy when the mayor of Zagreb pressed that button on the cable car built by someone else, which he reported when it was due to be built after a year of not being in office, and could bring very good income to the City of Zagreb. As for the rest, I believe that given that they have employed here in Zagreb the former European Capital of Culture Director, which Obersnel has replaced, will receive a significant result here and that the stage will be obtained in Zagreb, not in Novi Sad as in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112342	Okay, I'd like to ask that we stick to investment incentives in replicas, and less weed cutting, and so on, and things like that, and a little bit... Yeah, a little more to invest than that restraint. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112343	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Klaric, Croatia has recorded economic growth in recent years, macroeconomic indicators until the outbreak of the pandemic were 65.2% of the EU average, unfortunately because of the pandemic, there have been two major earthquakes, but yet Croatia is certainly more ready for this crisis. With the package of measures, the government managed to preserve both jobs and health systems and, of course, to increase the competitiveness of Croatia's economy, but with all the measures and incentives that make this government if the local leaders' interest remains in vain, it is all in vain. You are a successful local leader and tell me how important it is to promote the economy, mayors, mayors and mayors?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112344	Thank you very much. Before, wait, before you answer, we still have to welcome our future up, students and students of the OŠ “Matija Gupca” from Zagreb. That one nice round of applause for... We haven't had guests in a long time, and such guests are our favorite, these youngest. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112345	Cities and municipalities are both necessary and county, simply without them there is no such development. The first and basic conditions and prerequisites of everything are spatial plans. Who's doing them? JLS, cities, municipalities and counties. What's in those spatial plans? Drawn development, plotted entrepreneurship zones, industrial zones, used transport corridors, all the infrastructure to be built. Who's preparing it, who's building it? JLS. In symbiosis and ministries, the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, cities, municipalities and counties, I think there is no concern that Croatia will develop more and more, and these investments that are currently under way from the Učka tunnel let us ask our colleagues from the IDS or Istria how much will it mean to them, let us ask our colleagues from Dubrovnik how much the Pelješki bridge means, let us ask all Which will mean... [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] railway, what is Croatia doing [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah? [[Intruder: Mr. Klaric]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112346	I've had one criticism justifiably, that if I hadn't welcomed the professors and professors, they don't write their names here, but I say hello to them, no matter what their names don't say, do they, too? Thank you very much. You're damn right it is. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112347	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Klaric, as head of the coming JLS, you have opened one topic that is very interesting, and it refers to what they are doing in JLS to encourage investment in the area under your authority. But how effective are these measures, and how much did the frog see soaring, and so did she? I will illustrate to you an example of a municipality near the city of Osijek where you have an entrepreneurial zone which is a beautifully lit meadow, there is nothing on it, no building, no warehouse, no factory, but that's why candelabers are beautiful, the roads are beautiful and it is, it is a beautiful lit meadow on which there is nothing, and here you see a very large number of these entrepreneurial areas in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112348	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112349	I always say one man is nothing, one man is everything, so there's always this someone who brings people together, has an idea, has a vision, so something starts. I haven't seen that nicely lit meadow of yours, but I've seen this new mayor of yours and our colleague, and in this first year of his term, I've seen a big difference compared to what was before and I've seen enthusiasm, and I've seen ideas and I've seen something in your city run, and I believe that this illuminated meadow with such a thinking model will finally have residents whose lights will light up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112350	- Mrs. Crescent. Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Klaric, therefore, the Investment Encouragement Act has been current since 2015. and of course it was adopted to encourage investment, but the purpose itself should also be to create the investment environment itself, and how much progress we have actually made since 2015, I think we could have done a little better. We heard here today through other discussions, so the problems of bureaucracy, of this poor governance of state land, unresolved property relations, and you yourself mentioned in your replica the role of JLS, you are a very good example exactly in how it should look and how it should be run. I believe that this law has not done much in itself since 2015 and that, in fact, many more make up units of local self-government, so it has not in itself done any good. Do you think with these changes there will still be a better situation and that actually the investment environment will still be strengthened With these amendments to the law? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112352	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112353	In one I can agree with you. He can always do better, and none of us are ideal, and every one of us, I'm sure, can do a lot more. I am also convinced that both this Law and any other law is only a tool in the hands of us who in some way use it and implement it, as well as a tool in the hands of the economy that will approach the ministry or the funds with certain projects, so get as much funding as possible. When we talk about a model of whom, which and how, to me, I was often criticised because in the first phase when we started our business zone along the main traffic routes we were setting up shopping centres, in the second zone of that coverage we were setting up service activities, and in the third zone of clean production activities that we were providing numerous benefits to come here, much less municipal fees, less municipal contributions, freeing them with a lower cost of land. In the end, it turned out to be an ideal variant because whoever produces has to store somewhere. Customs, and then he's got to sell somewhere and when he does. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]] You come up with a package then... [[Thank you. You don't have any more...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112354	No more replicas No, no, no. [[/Intruder: No more?]] No, I'm done with the replicas. [[And I'm just getting...]] - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilović, finally, is already on the move, according to final discussions about this Act, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists and Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112355	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected secretary of state with an associate, here in the end, this debate still got a bit of a sharper tone, which I personally look forward to because I think this is an extremely important law and the fact is that this law depends very much on, and this is also the competitiveness of our economy, the productivity of our companies, the jobs, everything that I think is extremely important, especially at this moment at which it is located, not only the Republic of Croatia, but also the whole world. But what I'm going to point out here, finally, is that this Law and there are some good things, that doesn't turn out to be just criticizing us out of the opposition, means this new division where Pannonian Croatia stands out, I see that Slavons no matter what options they come from, we were in a group that was not very good for us, this should boost investments because of the larger share of these grants and everything and allow our entrepreneurs to enter into some projects, but also that we are becoming more desirable investment point, as far as Croatia itself is not too attractive to attract, mainly the greenfield investment, and to us Slavonians, here are the leaders of some local self-government units from Slavonia, very well know how difficult it is to attract investors to us in Slavonia. By the way, when I was talking about this well-lit ice, it's not in Osijek, I don't like to call my name and last name, it's about a smaller local unit where the independent otherwise, not from HDZ, here, I don't always call the HDZ chiefs, but we have these well-lit ices too because it was pomodaric, we go to entrepreneurial zones, and then everyone sees it, so let's do it. What I believe is that this Law, I hope, will make it right warmly, is these regional inequalities which are obviously not resolved by the current law because when you have the situation that the largest number of users of support was based on this Law in the City of Zagreb, I cannot believe that the City of Zagreb is our most underdeveloped part of the Republic of Croatia because there is also purchasing power at the level of the EU average and a little higher, while the average of Croatia is 65% of the purchasing power, and when we look at Slavonia, then it is less. Then it is Split-Dalmatia County, Zagreb County, Varazdin County, there are no Slavs anywhere and I hope that now with this new division, where Pannonia Croatia is singled out, will finally change that. What I'm going to point out in the end, that's our obsession with tourism, and I think it's already become a problem of the mental circuit that's leading us to a rental economy that's not good in the long run. We have a large number of young people in, down in Dalmatia, in Dalmatian counties that no longer go to study. He's going to leave him some ice cream, he's going to get an apartment, he's going to rent a little, which he's going to suffer for five years on FER, learn what he can and live on. That's not good, that's a problem we have to recognize and finally, we've heard this praise of tourism, but I'm going to ask you. You need to eat every day and you need electricity. Do you have to travel? You don't have to. What are the costs that will first be cut when the crisis years come, and these are now crisis years. This is a crisis that won't go away so easily and disappear. You don't have to go to sea, but you have to eat and you need electricity, and every smart country is going to put agriculture, food and processing industry and energy as three key sectors on which not only the economy depends, but also the lives of the citizens of that country. The obsession with tourism in this country needs to be put into reasonable frameworks and that's a fact, and all these praises go into that easy money, easy money, 2 months running, the rest of the time finger in the ear and we're looking at the sea There's no luck in that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112356	Now finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112357	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, as we have had the opportunity to hear from today's State Secretary, and also through other discussions of the new Law on Encouragement and Investment, it is still a matter of easing the negative consequences of Covid and of improving the positive entrepreneurial climate that will lead to an increase in investment projects and strengthening the productivity of the economy. This primarily refers to environmental and safe and sustainable investment projects aimed at contributing to green and digital transition, innovation, employment and training of employees, international competitiveness, regional development, and the activation of economic inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. In line with the relevant EU acquis in the area of state, regional investment support, as I have already mentioned, this legislative proposal continues to remove the negative consequences of Covid pandemic in a way that enables the implementation of the investment projects launched during that period. Provisions have thus been introduced to allow investment support users another additional year for the creation of planned new jobs related to project investment. For those users, investment support which has been fired during the pandemic, the number of newly-opened jobs will not be considered a violation of the obligation to preserve new jobs. The criteria of registered unemployment rate as a prerequisite for the use of grants for eligible costs for job creation as well as for the capital costs of the investment project have also been reduced. It is noted that the legal text is in line with the regional support map of the Republic of Croatia, or the new regional division of Croatia, into 4 areas that have been in force since 1 January 2022. It is about 4 regions, Pannonia Croatia, North Croatia, Adriatic Croatia and City of Zagreb. And there is a difference in the size of entrepreneurs and the right to grant support for initial investments. In the regions of Pannonian Croatia, Northern Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia, support can be granted to all entrepreneurs for any type of initial investment, while in the City of Zagreb, large entrepreneurs can be granted support exclusively for initial investment in the new economic activity in the area. This law also achieves the harmonisation of the existing investment support programme with the strategic objective of the National Development Strategy by 2030. It is necessary once again to stress that the total value of 672 investments so far has amounted to around 30 billion kuna, with nearly 23,500 new jobs in place. The planned investment level for 1,323 investment projects, approved projects and projects in processing amounts to more than 55.8 billion kuna, with a planned achievement of 33,981 new jobs. At the end of 2021, 706 entrepreneurs, 679 companies and 27 crafts and 336 small, 206 medium and 164 large entrepreneurs received confirmation of their support status, but we must stress that the dynamics of the implementation of the project and obtaining user status depend primarily on the users themselves, since they are able to make maximum use of all the benefits of the law. The project could be said to be a living organism and only when the user is sure what its project will be like to remove the investment submitted. A little more statistics, we said that it invests 14.7% in tourism, 14.4 in Mediterranean, IT sector 12%, wood processing industry 10%, production of machines and equipment 7.1% and food processing industry 6.2%. In these truly complex economic times, I am of the opinion that this law will very much contribute to new investments and new projects. The HDZ advocates' club will support the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112358	Now, finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112359	Thank you. This law is of course necessary and, of course, criteria need to be laid down. We can question these criteria, the issue of the distribution of EU funds, but I will not deal with it now because I want to deal with the essentials. So this law and investment will have a serious impact to economic activity and the direction in which Croatia's economy is developing because it is his intention, I hope. The law, i.e. the introduction, defines itself in advance and says that most of the funds will be more than 14% of the investment in tourism. He won't. It's said to be planned, planned. Okay, even if it wasn't, here's even if it wasn't. We have a serious problem with giving public funding to investments in tourism that are greenfield investments. And that's the problem because we already have serious problems on the coast of the rebuilding of certain parts of the coast. You'll say it's a question of maybe GUP, planning, etc., but it's not just that, it's also those economic activities that we encourage. So we can't plan to give less money to produce construction material in a situation where we are in rather than for tourism that has already been developed. Are we wondering what jobs these are, and jobs are indicators, what jobs do we encourage by investing in hotels, aparthotels and camps? What kind of jobs are these? Seasonal jobs. Low-paid jobs. Jobs that are so-called prefabricated or insecure jobs. So we in public money encourage economic activity that generates insecure jobs. And that's a good policy for you. In addition, we will invest in golf courses, public money in golf courses, nautical ports, nautical tourism, etc., I repeat the public money. So we are in an economic activity that has a good return, which is private we invest public funds instead of investing them in those industries and activities that may have shorter investment returns, longer investment returns, so many, many are not motivated to invest in them, and they are important to us for the survival of the state. And what's actually amazing about that is that we can't at least define by law what it is if we're going to invest in tourism, what's the priority? We have a situation on the coast that at the same time, we have the collapse of a huge part of existing infrastructure, old buildings, hotels, military, buildings of any kind, which fail, have no content. And on the other hand, we encourage greenfield investments because of course they pay the investor more. I know he's better off getting a new piece of land and building on it than rebuilding the old one, but our interest, our public interest is to rebuild that old infrastructure through private investment, put it into operation, and not take every piece of shore for tourist activity. And I'll tell you again what young people in Dubrovnik and Split are telling you. That they won't go to college because they're going to afitate and that what they're going to do is they already got it from Grandpa, so they don't have to go to college. And those who go to college and who successfully finish some of the technical colleges that we want to encourage, we want to encourage them, they don't go back to those environments because there aren't any of those jobs, and there's no such jobs because the prevalent economy is the activity of tourism. And it may be funny to you that fellow I see you laughing, but it is becoming a serious problem for Croatia that is not only us. It is seen by people on the coast, seen by EU experts, seen by experts from the World Bank. And we have a serious problem with this law and this kind of planned investment, we're just going to deepen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112360	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112361	Yeah, it seems when it comes to the economy that the right-hand side is mostly laughing today. I started my debate this morning with a free speech about Brodosplit, about Uljanic, Brodotrogir, so here we have one law that will really leave a mark, which really lays the basis for financing and encouraging investment and leaves a mark on our economy, which defines literally as investment and investment tourism. So in a country that is all of them, the problem is precisely because it has become a monoculture, so tourist countries we have an incentive to invest, which is mostly, and to a large extent, not only thinks it's an investment but it's an investment and that it's a development policy to invest in building a new hotel, but there's no talking about shipbuilding. This mention of high added value means that these investment sectors should have high added value. One word does not mention shipbuilding, one word does not mention industrial development, one word does not mention the Shipyard Institute, which we are shutting down as an institution that is able to produce scientific, scientific basis and has been shown in the past, was able to produce a scientific basis for one of the most sophisticated products that have the highest added value since other industries are attached to it. This morning I presented information that about 100,000 people in Croatia lived from shipbuilding. So 11,000 people were directly employed, 20,000 people were associated with signs of shipbuilding. We have 100,000 people that are no longer in that branch of the employment industry, which has had the opportunity to produce added value, but of course HDZ is not worth it. It's a bottomless hole, no, this isn't a bottom hole. So tourism new hotels, aquaparks etc., so we literally have support here for developmental innovation activities and activities in Article 16 that says we should invest in new hotels. Given that developed countries have only about 5% of the value of tourism in GDP, and in some estimates 20% of this should certainly be questioned. The second thing we're going to try to change with the amendment is what I asked the secretary of state this morning, it's about the users of the support that were giving notices during the period defined here as the Covid crisis period, meaning January '20. The year until June of '21. I also think it's justified to ask the question of what the Coronal was doing with us in January '20. There were no crowns just in March, but the secretary of state replied that we are harmonising with a European, European document which has also set it up I think we need to coordinate regardless of the fully documented paradoxical period set, but good. Another thing that is even more problematic and which we are actually going to try to revise with the amendment because what it means is that if workers were fired in this period under this law, it does not consider that the beneficiary of the support has damaged the state budget or that he has committed some kind of infringement, we will ask that at least, if it should be fully questioned, but even if we should put it into question, if these jobs are lost permanently, we are leaving the possibility that these jobs are lost temporarily, but it would not be good to leave this possibility means that the employer could permanently shut down those jobs even though he was a support user. At the same time, the law does not set itself up as a framework of profit that this company could have had and that it was giving out cancellations, and it was not a matter of whether you were receiving support and now it was a crown, some were doing very well in the crown, I think and we were financing book chains that might not have been going very well in the crown, but we funded them and maintained jobs, and we had the meaning of companies that were doing very well in the crown and there was no excuse that they fired workers for justifying the crown, and they actually had a big profit. It should have been in the law, put it as an emphasis in the law itself, if there was any gain then we can't justify that employer who fired workers, but here we put only the most, what mildest framework to put into question if there was a permanent cancellation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112362	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the honourable representative, Željko Pavić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112363	Dear Chairman, thank you, dear secretary with associate, colleague and colleague. Here's just a few more things I'd like to point out. First, we need to know that this law will attract certain projects once it enters into force, but these projects will be done by investors and that depends on what investors will do, when they will work and how they will work. Could the state have reacted in a way to stimulate certain areas, or individual activities, she certainly could. I talked about it in my debate on behalf of the club, and I think we should at first define what is in our interest, especially because we know that the war has come in Ukraine, we know what the crises are caused, we know what we need, we need energy, we need food, we need the processing industry, but we can't forget that we need to be competitive in all the other branches that are currently active in us. If we are currently relying on tourism, tourism must be competitive because unless we have income from those branches that we have leaned upon we will not be able to function. If it's a 10-billion-euro income at the level of the year, then we need to encourage these things. If we could have done otherwise, we could have, as we could have proposed to the secretary, we said, sorry to the secretary of state, we said it would have been good, that it would have been good, that it would have been quality if we had approached it systematically, that the other ministries had been involved in the making of that law and that, after that, by stimulating certain activities, it had actually been directed later and into investing. The fact is, we won't be able to develop undeveloped areas unless we have other stimulating measures. The fact is, we won't be able to develop earthquake-affected areas unless we have other stimulating measures. The fact is, we won't be able to develop areas where we have demographic devastation because there's just no one to hire. If we even hire or create new jobs there, and we have daily migration, individuals will go to other JLS and JLS where new plants will not benefit from it. It is in our interest that Croatia develops evenly and should be the goal of this law to actually realize it. If this is not possible in this way, the state should volunteer to intervene that the stimulating measures are different so that, in fact, entrepreneurs in some way, agree to invest where they are better or where the state needs them. If we don't do this with this law, we need to get to work and make other laws that will push it a little bit, help us really do what we really wanted to do with this law, and we wanted to make that we have a balanced development of all of Croatia so that all JLS can function normally, not that one JLS has been in debt since it was created, and the next 20 or 50 years, and one of them enjoys the benefits of all those entrepreneurs who have opened their jobs with them, who have opened their facilities and thus actually contributed to that JLS and workers who work there and who have settled there and, of course, have a higher standard and everything that belongs to such JLS. That's what we should be working on. Is the law good for what we need to do right now, I think it's good, if we could do different stimulating measures and define differently in the law we could, we didn't do that, we can't write the amendments because it takes an analysis, so we can't do that from the sky, so in the ribs, here we would suggest this without an analysis, it wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be correct for the ministry and the secretary who's been working on it for months. Therefore, we have not written the amendments, but we believe that this should be defined differently. Regardless of all this, the Social Democrats Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112364	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, we are now going to a united debate on the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 279 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. Number 280 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Before the proposer's representative gives me an additional explanation that there is a request for a break, a respected representative of the Vesna Nadj on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives for 10 minutes in order to point out once again the inadmissible ease that the government sends to a parliamentary debate, a debate on the proposals of the law in the field of justice that will not contribute to its normative decisions, to the final state's attorneyship and courts being independent of the executive authority, to adequately punish the unemployed and the misdemeanors in the judiciary, and all those worthy judges and state lawyers who are committed and professionally doing their job to be adequately rewarded and to be given every possible conditions for normal work. It is time for Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to be made clear about media reports on government pressures on the DORH in connection with indictments against officials in the government of the Republic of Croatia. If the DORH is indeed an independent and independent judicial body, then the main state attorney must not inform the Prime Minister of any action conducted against government officials, no matter how much its mandate depends on the votes of the ruling majority and the public must convince that no pressure in this regard can affect the work of the DORH. From his living, living mud that the DORH sinks along with the attorney general is only the transparency and legality of the rescue treatment, not this normative holy guide offered by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112395	Thank you, of course the break will be approved and in accordance with 293b. we will continue to work and now, on behalf of the promoter, the additional explanation will be given by the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112396	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs before you are the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council which seek to ensure more effective work of both councils, improve the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials and increase their responsibilities and transparency in the work. In order to disbursement both councils, it shall be left with the obligation to keep an eye on judges or state officials as well as to provide technical support to the work of the committee for the selection of members of the Council acting at the Supreme Court or the State Attorney's Office. From now on, administrative support in the work of the commission will be provided by those bodies. The planning process, filling of the court seats, is reduced from 2 years to 1 year in order to determine the needs of completion more realistically. For the sake of greater transparency and public availability, these draft laws also prescribe the obligation to publish a plan of free judicial and replacement posts and to amend and publish them on the website of the Ministry and of the Council. In the proceedings of the appointment of judicial officials to the first-degree judicial authorities, the provisions of these laws are aligned with the proposed amendments to the law of the Judicial Academy or to the work of the School of State for Labour, for judicial officials. Therefore, the entry into the judicial officer for candidates who are registered at the time when they are registered will be evaluated differently. The provisions on the institution of designation and relocation shall then be developed. More precisely, they regulate the conditions for the appointment of persons in courts and the state's attorney's office in the first degree, and only in the order of those who do not already exercise judicial duty. The Institute of Transfers shall be further regulated in such a way that only a judicial officer who performs that duty for at least 3 years can be transferred to another judicial body of the same degree. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedure of permanent relocation, specific procedures consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duty or of assessing the behaviour of the state's attorney's office and the talks before the council shall also be prescribed. The appointment procedure of officials to senior judicial authorities shall be governed by the way in which the appointment is made possible by persons who have previously exercised judicial duties, however, with a special written examination of the knowledge. In addition, the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials are regulated. It is prescribed that the councils do not have an obligation to call on candidates who, even with the highest possible number of points in the interview, cannot be appointed to office. It leaves a limit to the council that they do not call candidates who, through the assessment of their duties, achieve less than 130 points. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the councils is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. Amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council in the catalogue of staging works shall be introduced. That's not agreeing to conduct a security check. Thereafter, the phasing out of duty is redefined in such a way that the obligation to meet the framework criteria is increased to 100%, and now the framework criteria were considered to have been met when the judge reached 80%. In addition, an act of limitations due to the failure to take action in a procedure without justifiable reason is clearly determined as a stupendous act of disorderly conduct of duty. When it comes to the procedures for the appointment of a deputy chief of state lawyer in the order of candidates who are not acting in a judicial capacity, an element of written verification of knowledge shall be introduced. This will be more objectively evaluated by the candidates. The proposed amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Council, introduces a number of different fines in the strict proceedings against the deputy state attorneys and introduces the possibility of a conditional conviction and its denunciation. It is prescribed that failure to give consent to carry out a security check is the basis for the discharge of the duties of the Deputy State Attorney at the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The procedure to determine the circumstances of the termination of office and the resolution of the State's attorney is also further regulated in order to remove the ambiguity. The plan to fill out the vacancy of deputy state attorneys and their changes will be published on the DOV and Ministry of Justice and Administration pages. We believe that DOV and DSV are important bodies that decide on the appointment and resolution of judicial officials. The legal changes that are here before you will further increase the quality of the work of these councils and ensure better quality mechanisms to ensure that the judicial system is more efficient, more quality and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112397	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112398	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, first commendation that you are here with us for the debate on these two bill proposals, whether they are technical or not, we are changing something more. I am interested in the reports and the DORH, but also in the debate about and for the Supreme Court, we often mention statistics on ourselves, the years of employees in the judicial system, and this can often be defeated over 60 years, they mostly mention any problem of staffing the introduction of new lawyers into the system to be transferred to the ministry as chief financier of the judicial system. You're a professor yourself at law school, so I'm wondering if it's time to rejuvenate the staff and introduce new young lawyers into the system is this simply now unsustainable, we won't have anyone to leave our judiciary to, and if we're such closed new law students, they won't even be able to think about hiring in our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112399	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112400	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So these two laws, so the DSV Act and the DOV Act, are actually part of a package that also includes the Law on the Judicial Academy and the Law on trainees in judicial bodies because, in fact, by changing this package, we change the concept of appointment, appointment of judicial officials. Of course, therefore, we have seen certain shortcomings in the current system of appointments of officials, but also in the advancements of the officials themselves. I can point out that last year and we have opened a tender and implemented a competition for trainees in judicial bodies, and we believe that this path through training and further progress is the right way to get new officials in judicial bodies and we will do so in the next period. So only through the amendments to this package of laws are we going in this direction to make and the process of appointment, but also to the progress of judicial officials as transparent and accessible as possible to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112401	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112402	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, these amendments and additions to the DOV Act are, in principle, in line with the provisions of the Law on State Attorneys, which we have recently adopted, mainly in this section for Deputy State Attorneys or Security Verification, so here is now one reason for a resolution if he would not give his consent to carry out this security check. Since there has been opposition, part of the opposition here is again an extended issue in some way the influence of the executive authority on the judicial officials I would ask you if you could just point out once more in fact how this security check will be carried out or actually there is no interference so there has been any executive authority or government on exactly these proceedings and on the judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112403	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112404	Thank you very much for asking. So as I pointed out, when we were amending the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, there was no influence either influencing the executive authorities nor in the appointment of either judges or state attorneys. When we talk about security checks, then we clearly communicated that the security checks were carried out by SOA, which produced a certain report on the security check, that report provided to the Supreme Court and the Attorney General and then the commission, which consisted of 3 or 5 judges or state lawyers, is considering whether there are certain risks in that report that prevent the objectivity, independence and transparency of the work of a judge or a state attorney, and then decide whether there are elements for the launch of a tight procedure and, if there are so far, that commission can initiate a tight procedure in front of DSV and DOV, so we have no policy influence, we have SOA, an institution that we believe and that so far does security checks for judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112405	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112406	Thank you very much, Your Honor. After a series of laws relating to the digitisation of the judiciary, then a series of laws relating to criminal or civil law spheres, here are today two amendments and amendments to the laws relating to both the state's attorney and the judicial authority, and so on, we continue to measure further what you have said and measured through the National Plan of Resistance and recovery related to judicial reform and through this part of today's changes, one question in some way raised in the media above others, and this is related to the extension of the catalogue of the narrow parts of judges, or that the cumbersome work relating to the fulfilment of the standard of duty will increase from 80% to 100%, so can you explain what this specifically means in the case of judges' work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112407	Thank you. The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112408	Thank you very much. Well, everyone's mouth is full of effective and effective justice. In fact, through frames and so on. The norm prescribed for judicial officials or if we are to specify for judges when we talk about a judicial duty is therefore precisely determined how much activity the judge must take in a given year to meet that standard, so far it has been prescribed that the fulfilment must be fulfilled, that the norm is considered to be fulfilled if 80% of the norm is met. I must point out that at the beginning of this year and we've changed the framework standards, we've raised a judge's norm, we haven't done it like this overnight, but we've carried out a certain analysis and we've determined that there's a space to increase the efficiency of the judges' work, and that it doesn't affect the quality of their work, and now we've actually prescribed through these tensile acts that the norm is considered to be fulfilled if 100% of the norms are met. I believe that this will increase the efficiency of the work of the courts and that quality will also be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112409	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112410	The other day, Andrej Plenkovic publicly boasted that he called the chief state attorney Hrvoje-Šipek, and suggested that she be instructed to do what she should do. Yesterday, however, the Nationalal weekly announces that the state's chief attorney regularly visits the government's president and reports him on criminal cases of his interest. This is an open violation of the constitution and the law by the main state's attorney and prime minister. The direct consequence is corruption, and it is the main cause of poverty for Croatian citizens. I think it's enough to mention only Minister Zhaoac and her 4-fold payment of software. Tell me, Mr. Minister, what are you doing to prevent the state's chief attorney and the Prime Minister from breaking the constitution and the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112411	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112412	Thank you very much. So the Prime Minister, neither the Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister, nor the Attorney General, violates neither the constitution nor the law and has no pressure nor the influence of the Prime Minister or of any other member of the executive government on the work of the State's attorney, nor on the work of the attorney general, or on the work of a single state attorney. So I am 100% convinced and convinced that the state's attorney's office is working independently and that no one interferes with their work, and we see that with these amendments to the State's Attorney's Office, DOV, DSV, where certain procedures have been established where there is no influence from the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112413	Dear Representative Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112414	Art. 238, this is not just an insult to the representatives and the Croatian public, this is an insult to common sense. The man cannot trust his ears as you say, you are the minister of this government and you are saying that you believe that he has no influence on the judiciary, and the Prime Minister is openly boasting that he calls it, that he calls it the chief state attorney, that he is giving instructions and that he is visited and regularly reporting on criminal cases, so who here is crazy, until you think about protecting corruption and crime at the expense of Croatian citizens, you will answer for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112415	Dear MPs Vidovic Kristo, this was a replica, so I'm giving you a warning. Honorable representative Oreshković has, and the first respected representative of Grmoja is probably asking for a break if I am well... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112416	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, and we can't discuss any laws at all when we have a situation where the Prime Minister admits he's calling the State's Attorney General and actually assures her that there's no need to pursue persecution against one of his ministers. We also have information that says that at the monthly level, a state attorney informs the government's president of investigations against government officials and in fact any law that we bring here in the assembly will not solve a key Croatian problem, and that is the dependence of the institutions on this government, the fact that Plenkovic's corruptive click puts its hands on all the important institutions in this country and simply there is no speech about how to deal with corruption as long as that is the case. We urgently need to move this corrupt click from power and give full freedom and independence to our institutions, and when this happens to many who sit in this government, many who sit here in this assembly will be struck by these independent institutions. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to discuss whether or not it is necessary to discuss any legal changes while we have this state of emergency in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112417	Of course the break will be approved. Stanku asked on behalf of the HDZ Club and respected representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112418	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again that this ruling majority is seriously seeking to deal with corruption in society, and that is also evident through all the amendments to the laws that we have done so far, especially in the judicial portfolio. These two amendments to the laws that are currently on the agenda, which are the amendment and addition of the Law on VAT and DSV as independent and independent judicial bodies, also speak, the content of these amendments also speaks in favour of the increased transparency of the work of these bodies and their independence. We reject all these corruption charges and also the co-operation between the executive and the judicial authority in the way it is imputed here because it is primarily unwarranted and unsuspecting, the individual and the Prime Minister are muddy and the executive authority in general unfounded. Here we are constantly talking about the perception of the situation in the judiciary, and all of us who are involved in the work of the institutions of the state do not contribute to this perception being different. When we look at the report and the work of the state attorney's office and the work of the judicial authority that comes here before HS, we can see that the indicators of the work of these institutions are not exactly so that we can talk about the absolute ineffectiveness of the judiciary. I think we all have to be if we want to change the perception that we need to be realistic first of all and talk about really those real problems and the way we solve them, and not just shoot out the estimates and assessments of corruption like this, about who makes them, and we also act differently... according to certain factors in society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112419	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Grumo has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112420	He's been injured. 238, a colleague says this was a flat-rate charge, no. Your government's ministers are being hit by these institutions when it's impossible to protect you. If the institutions were independent long ago, you would have answered many of you sooner, so it's not about the flat-rate charges but about the facts, and the prime minister himself admitted calling the state's attorney general. It's his confession and he himself admitted that he did something that was illegal in democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112421	Comrade Grumo, this is a replica, not this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised and respected by representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112422	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it offends here by making the truths, so that we are not, that the institutions are not independent then we would not carry out certain proceedings against these same ministers, so no one is protected, and whenever I speak and speak to those speakers there, I said that we are all subject to the same laws and we are all available for what we do to answer and we need to answer in the same way, and you are here, and you are here, and you are condemning those without, without any factual evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112423	Thank you and it was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Habib also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112424	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Grumoja apparently forgets that his mentor from Pantovica publicly admitted that it was normal while he was Prime Minister that he knew about all the tests and investigations being conducted, so he directly said, so you had no such attitudes, you had some different criteria than you now have, and you should know that since you often deal with the judiciary and you're an expert in the judiciary that executive and chief state attorneys cooperated on matters of arbitration, in matters of state representation before certain proceedings, but unfortunately you forget, it doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112425	A fellow Habiban and it was a replica, so you get a warning. Honorable representative Zekanovic has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has he been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112426	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, I'm not actually in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to ask if any of the state's attorneys have a number I'd like to call as well, perhaps a colleague of the Grmoya has, so let me see...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112427	You can't do this to my colleague, Zekanovic. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112428	I can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112429	You've gone a little too far, no, no, of course you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112430	All right, I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112431	Of course you can't. Let's get serious, let's get serious. Stanko was asked on behalf of the club by a respected representative, Željko Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112432	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we believe that it is appropriate today to request an item, a pause because before us, the minister of justice is the most responsible person who defends certain laws on DOV and DSV, while at the same time we do not consider that he has taken sufficient effective measures to protect us from legal shagging and peaceful aggression of the Republic of Serbia, which is raising legally chicant charges against our Croatian giants, Croatian defenders on the basis of the absence and disputed international universal jurisdiction of the so-called. As a minister, you and as a member of an inter-resor group should have done everything to prevent this from happening, and in fact, to bring the Republic of Serbia into order to face your bloody wartime history and to first do everything to bring back war damage to the Croatian people, to resolve the borders with Croatia, to solve the case of the missing, archives and all that to prosecute all criminals who have committed evil in the area of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112433	Of course the break will be approved with that we will comply. 293.b. continue to work, so the replica will now have a respected representative, Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112434	Thank you. Minister, I don't have a question for you, I'm actually talking about the opposition that God has at the moment more than usual when we're discussing judicial laws. So the fact is that HDZ has its paws on all institutions, but a colleague of Grmoya is not enough to shift HDZ from power, we will do so, but it has happened twice in history, so for Croatia there has been no long-term improvement, and if we want something better here is what we should do. First, change the constitution, a provision that says the attorney general has a term of office at the age of 4. which can be extended, once we do it in a way that has one unique term, for example, from 8 g. Without the possibility of an extension, he'll be able to be more independent, so we won't ask if the prime minister's phone calls him not to get arrested and to touch his ministers. Secondly, DSV and DOV should be restructured, there has nothing to ask for parliamentary representatives, and those working in those bodies should do the job professionally in permanent working time, not on quotas. And the third thing, to establish a system of control of property cards, not to give us reports that it will be carried out when conditions are obtained and thus until the day of judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112435	Thank you very much, thank you very much, I don't know. It wasn't a question, but... The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112436	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, in this amendment, it is prescribed that the council will not necessarily have to call for the interview of all candidates, especially when they, with a maximum number of points in the interview, could not be able to be elected, I believe that this will certainly affect the effectiveness of the Council's work. However, in order to avoid confusion and some non-transparentity, or to avoid confusion, I think that the results and the total number of points of all candidates should be published. I think it's from art. In 56, it turns out that the final list will only be published for those who participate in the talks is so constructed that the total number of points will also be based on the discussions, so please think about it and see what's best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112437	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112438	Thank you very much. Well, here's your point, we will consider your proposal between two readings, but indeed this proposal to amend the DSV Act and the DOV Law contains good things, things that will increase transparency, in particular, the appointment of judicial officials, so we have extended these criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, so so far they were only points from the State School for judicial officials, or from that final exam, and now they will take into account the quality of their work, so in accordance with the rules that will be passed by the Ministry of Justice, and the DSV and DOV will need to explain the decisions they make on the appointment of individual candidates for judicial officials, so I am convinced that we will have one more quality and transparent system of choice of judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112439	The Republic has a respected representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112440	Dear Minister, here I have seen this one innovation you put in Art. 56.a. which you say in one sentence that for the deputy state attorneys, it would be necessary and that the future will be conducted before the appointment of psychological testing. Now I'm interested in when you came up with that idea, why and whether this psychological testing is limited only to the lowest category of deputy state attorneys or I see in other parts you haven't touched on the level of county state department, high, etc., the main state attorney's office, how you think it will echo, work, what it means are they all already in a working legal relationship, whether in the meantime, what happens now is that I, otherwise, support every control system for psychophysical health control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112441	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112442	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, therefore, psychological testing already exists in the election for members of the state court or not for members, but in the election of judges at DSV and DOV, so we have only developed further these provisions of the DoV and DSV Act, so we have, what I mentioned earlier, we will now have more criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, so so so far we have only the number of points that judicial officials or candidates have won in the final exam at the state school, and now they will take into account their work done, so that we will have a more transparent and clear system and I believe that this will result in more quality candidates who will be elected as judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112443	Honorable representative Nadj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I don't understand your tenacity by actually pushing this new stupendous act of dissent to conduct a security check with judges every five years. Since you have been warned by the President of the Supreme Court and in the e-consultation, this Association of Croatian Judges and the European Association of Judges held that it does not comply with European standards. What's actually the reason when we can solve it through property cards, actually, is the same effect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112445	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112446	Thank you very much. So the property or security checks existed before the recent amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, they were reserved for only one narrow circle of judicial officials, in particular by judges appointed for the first time by the State's attorneys to the Supreme Court, while in the State's attorneys they were deputies of the meanings of the Director of USKOK and the Deputy Director of USKOK, so we have now extended it and introduced periodic security checks, the main criticism was the mixing of the executive authority to the judicial, judicial, judicial, therefore there is no influence there, nor the contact of the executive authorities with the appointment and resolution of the judicial officials themselves, so the SOA makes a report, this report is accessible to the judicial authorities, so the state attorneys and the rule of law can be brought to judgments, that you are not guilty of law and you are not guilty of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112447	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112448	Your Honor, you are not a respected vice president, but just one small progression regardless of this, feel free to take my time. There's glass all over the floor, his colleagues are in summer shoes, someone's gonna cut themselves, and there's this big boring fly, and here he is, jumping around for the minister, distracting him, if there's a way to get rid of both of them so we can work easier. So, I asked the number of state attorneys, I would also call her a question that I would ask her, respected state attorneys, this is my colleague Grumoja and you are directed, do your job more, President Milanovic accused me of crime, me and President Plenkovic of having him carry the money in my bag or let him start the trial against us, let him interrogate President Milanovic about what he knows and if he lied let him put him in the asylum, let the man say he's crazy, the man is unserious. A brief question, a comment on the former state attorney Jelenic who was, who was former, so the former we know why, what was the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112449	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112450	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, therefore, as I replied to the MPs of Karolina Vidovic Kristo that there was no influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority, so the judiciary and the judicial authorities remain independent and impartial, so they are working without any pressure from the executive authority, and also without any pressure and influence from the Prime Minister on the work of the chief state attorney or state attorney in certain cases. There are certain points of contact such as arbitration, representation of the interest of the real estate requirements of the Republic of Croatia, so there is a need for cooperation between the executive authority and the state attorney's office, but this cooperation is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. What you asked the question of the former chief of state attorney, so the amendments to the DOV Act certainly redefine both the major acts and the procedure before the DOV itself as regards tight procedures, so I believe that these changes will remove the legal gaps that have so far been in the handling of the tight procedure before the DOV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112451	Thank you. The replica of the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112452	Thank you. Dear Minister, my question concerns these criteria for the work of judges who have been changed from 80 to 100%, I am interested in the concrete reasons why it is, and I'm wondering if this is the position of the ministry that has been put out in the e-consultation that has shown that 63% of judges have already reached an 80% level in September of compliance with the judicial obligation after which work dynamics has slowed down, does this ministry think that 63% of judges have been not doing their jobs enough for the past three months, and that is why this is the reason for the increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112453	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112454	Thank you very much. So, if we're talking about a system of framework criteria, so on. The norms therefore have a standard that has been established for the work of all judicial officials and, of course, the fulfilment of that standard are considered a 100% fulfillment, so not 80%, so far we have, so far the norm has been considered fulfilled when, when the judge has fulfilled only 80% of the norm. We have now increased this to 100%, so if the norm is already established in some amount, in the number of activities, the number of decisions, the judgments that judges make, then we believe that they should be met in a 100% amount, and not in an 80% amount, so it was preceded by certainly an analysis of the work of judges, through the system of e-scripts it can be clearly determined how many judges work, when they make certain decisions and, of course, it was the basis for us to make a decision to increase the framework criteria, and also to increase the fulfilment of the standard from 80 to 100%, and I believe that this will also result in an increase in the number of resolved cases at the annual level of Croatian courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112455	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we're going to take a short break of one 5 minutes, as the esteemed representative Zekanovic said this colleague accidentally broke the glass, so this one needs to clean up a little, and the fly problem is afraid I'm going to have a hard time solving. It's 3:03 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.04 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, so then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club will speak for the Honorable Representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112457	Thank you, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. This proposal amends and complements the Law on DOV and DSV carries certain changes in relation to the existing situation which should bring us closer certainly to a more independent and professional exercise of the difficult constitution of the prescribed tasks of our judicial officials. Certainly, that certain, certain intentions of yours, which they provide, which should have led to a level of expertise being raised and objectifying the verification of candidate's capacity for judicial duties, are welcome, however. We have these certain innovations, I have already said in the replica that last year was behind us, last year we talked about introducing this and the security checks of the judicial officials, then the property cards to be published, about which we had great controversy in the Croatian public, so here you can see the psychological tests that you are proposing. 56.a. complete. These psychological tests by themselves after this candidate has gone deep into the judicial system, carried out certain advisory duties, etc., a little bit of ringing in, in this chapter, this is essentially a test of intelligence or something like that, and now this, along with all objective parameters, man has done a test of knowledge, a state-level training in the judicial academy has passed, conducted a conversation with the state-run, state-owned council that we have raised, a greater possibility of assessing points from 15 to 20 now must now go except for the security check and to this intelligence test, okay, let's hope that we'll have luck and that we'll get to the smartest and best of these candidates that Croatian people deserve, the Croatian people, but then let's be consistent and spend it on all the other levels, let's not just at the lowest levels in that justice system stop. There may not have been a case of this main state attorney who was a member of a mass organization and practically no one responded to that until the Croatian public and we Croatian sovereigns pointed and shook and sought certain procedures. The epilogue, of course, isn't even close to the end yet. I can see the complaints are under way. It's all good, it's very objective, it enables our judicial officials to carry out their hard tasks, and especially DOV members, if we release them part of the daily presidents' jobs as much as 75% of what they have to do in everyday work in the state... and members 20%. In any case, we as Croatian sovereigns will give our voice, our hand to change it is better than nothing. What counterpart Oreshkovic said about the need for radical changes, we can certainly discuss, put that proposal on the table to extend the mandate to the state's chief state attorney, chief state attorney or chief state attorney, so that it is more independent, that it does not have to be anxious when called by the prime minister or prime minister or prime minister of government. Dal calls her to tell her here we'll give her 50, 100, 200 million kunas to improve the work of your state's attorneys or why you did or why you didn't press charges or conduct secret reconnaissances against my ministers. All in all as far as this part of the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, however, you have made a huge mistake, Mr. Secretary of State, in the part where you said that we can temporarily vacate from the duties of a state attorney if he, now, be careful of your dear friends, if he commits a criminal offence which, if committed against him, is a criminal offence or a criminal offence for which the prescribed sentence is longer than five years or is in custody of course. But watch out for five years, so you know what that means? So if the state's attorney is such a specter or he's being prosecuted for crimes of six for which he can end up in prison from six months to five years in a row. Why is it, in any case, that any of you can imagine in the assembly benches or in the police or in the judiciary that anyone can at all be in the capacity of a state's attorney, and that he has a burden on not a private suit, not a criminal act of traffic, but a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to five years of imprisonment can be prescribed? So change it can't be. Maximumly place a possible private lawsuit, slander, insult, traffic-delict, inequitable everything else is one state attorney so he must be clean as crystal, as a diamond as well as a cop, as well as a judge. No matter what tails, please nice, what tails for him on criminal justice, the offense is the problem. I'm not talking about that violent, domestic thing at all, but some offense, I don't know if he's drunk or something, it's a public matter. So, that's what it's all about. As far as the State Judiciary Council is concerned, we also don't have what they've advanced, and there I see that you judges have always been more agile and they've fought for their positions much earlier and much more elastic. I guess somehow they were further away from reaching the hands of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and in the media they were much better placed in the last 10, 15 years. Let's just think of Judge Mrcelle when, on behalf of the Association of Judges, he often appeared to himself, and they created a real space of untouchableness in terms of positive, not persuasive speech, and you put in them certain tenuous measures, made a distinction for milder tenuous measures, harder, but you also left the judge a problem that you would not touch him and will not suspend him if he commits a criminal offence for which in the criminal proceedings for which a sentence of five years of imprisonment and more could be imposed. I mean, it's simple, don't make those compromises, so no one can justify it. Change it, don't come to another reading because it won't go away and we'll be against it, so all reasonable people and the Croatian public can't imagine that he's being tried by a judge behind whom a criminal case for a crime is being prosecuted for up to five years in prison. We're running away from it, there's no need, it's even Mr. Bosnjakovic, as a minister, long ago, and not that you ministers have any business to do with it. Thank you very much.../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112458	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zlatko Hasanbegovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112459	Dear Minister, Secretary of State. As everyone knows, the general place in the public concept is the problem of non-functioning of the Croatian judiciary of all forms of judicial authority, which includes concepts such as legal uncertainty, law enforcement, arbitration, non-sanctionation of various criminal acts, judicial and state-level incompetence, corruption, clicks, coteries, similar to the notion of a powerful and executive verdict adopted within a reasonable period of time as mental nouns. What are the real achievements of the so-called. the reform procedures in the judicial system and the judicial authority carried out from 2000 to today in accordance with Croatia's legal surrender and needs, already with the Brussels and Venice experimental directives for the countries in the EU accession process, which have, of course, not been applied or applied in the so-called so-called the old members of the Union that we see as a permanent form. Namely, what is it? It is a fixation of the notion of independence and independence of the judicial authority, which in legislative practice turns into a travesty of its original meaning, which refers to independence and independence in the operation and decision of all three branches of government, the possibility of their mutual supervision, and not the conversion of any of these three authorities into a self-sufficient co-ordinate of its own choosing, assesses and resolves itself through the body of the deprived original constitutional imperative, demographic and national legitimacy, which makes up the main stone of the Croatian Constitution, which, in the case of the laws of choice and action, both DOV and DSV are denied. The constitutional imperative is found in the basic provisions of the Croatian Constitution. 1st century 2. which reads as "in the Republic of Croatia", so all three branches of government "become from the people and belong to the people as a community of free and equal citizens" and 3rd, which reads: "The people exercise power by the choice of their representatives and by direct decision". As the constitutional provisions on VAT say, as regards the DSV body which has been tasked with the appointment of deputy state attorneys, their resolution and the decision on tight responsibility. Who in this country has democratic national legitimacy in accordance with this fundamental constitutional provision? Therefore, the HS chosen by the people in the elections is the indirect government elected by the HS and by the President of the Republic directly from the people. On the other hand, the founder has set out the composition of the DOV which has 11 members, consisting of seven deputy state attorneys, two university professors of legal science and two parliamentary representatives of which is one of the lines of opposition. This means that of the three factors of the legislative executive authority with democratic people's legitimacy, two of the priorities are excluded from the influence on its composition, and one reduced to a mere décor through two parliamentary deputies who in no way can affect the quorum and decision-making of the representation... of the prized ficus and have the privilege of having the privilege of personally knowing candidates for judicial and state attorneys' duties which in everyday life could not be known except as potential perpetrators of criminal offences. The motive for this questionable and unscheduled provision, but still within the framework of the fundamental constitutional value on the national legitimacy of all branches of government, was to highlight the principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority, since the way in which members of these bodies were elected was left to the legislator who, in a later legislative solution, violated the constitutional imperative under the fundamental principles of constitutional law. 1. Namely, the number of representatives in the DOV as well as in the DSV would be irrelevant, including the solution that they are not members at all that the legislator has prescribed that all members are based on appropriate application procedures and that, through a qualified majority of choices, the HS we can, as well as its composition, think about what we want, but which is according to the constitutional article. 71. I quote "the representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority". This is also the answer to the question of a prominent Croatian Twitterian, of course with Mrs. Kosor, a legal expert whose money of political decisions with far-reaching fatal consequences was shot down by the constitutional administrative court of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic, who I am working in DOV. I am in that body with the decision of HS, not the lottery draw, or the discretionary decision of the state company Janaf d.d. on the selection of legal services without a direct contract with the method of social ties and kneeling and withdrawal of the sleeve. As such and as a decor member of that body with the legitimacy of a national representative without any real influence on the decision-making of the first hand, they may testify that any legislative novels of the Law on DOV and DSV, as well as the fleet on judicial reform, are unfounded unless it implies a radical change of constitutional provisions on their composition as well as legal provisions on the way their members are elected. The basic constitutional provision on the national representation of all the branches of the government is not and cannot be opposed to the principle of independence and independence of action, unless we want to transfer all the shortcomings of the legislative executive authority to the court and turn it into a single centre of power without the democratic legitimacy it chooses itself, and ultimately to which greater influence than the Croatian peoples have seminars of the Soroshes and other foundations of the invisible arm and of the foreign embassy. What do we have here today? The chamomile of a cosmetic novel, which does not even consider the key provision on how to elect members of both councils, is already occupied by a peripheral issue of which part can be resolved by the Rules of Procedure and Rules, for example, whether members of the State's deputy attorneys' office should be reduced by 75 or 20% under the exception of equalising them with judges by turning them into semi-professional members of that body. Furthermore, the problem of hitting meaningless ten-minute talks of candidates, with candidates content which can be witnessed from the personal experience of the representative icaban in the council, is unusually reminded of the jury's conversation with the county missus and tourism or sports. Furthermore, the novel deals with the range of fines in tighter procedures, which further removes the influence of non-state attorney members, so university professors and parliamentary representatives by conditional penalties, and so on and so on. Finally, as a curiosum, I am merely noticing that during my parliamentary mandate, I have not seen a legislative proposal of potentially such weight and importance with fewer objections to what I have done. consultation with the interested public which has almost and does not, with the exception of the principle-based observations by the two members of the council in the order of university professors which have of course been rejected. In conclusion, any debate on such a chamomile as a legal proposal is a groundless and devoid of a measure called the so-called so-called measure. judicial reform, which is euphemism for root constitutional procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112460	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most will now speak the respected representatives of Grmoja and Bulj. First respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112461	Thank you. The discussions that preceded this debate made it clear that the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the state's attorney, does not mean that there is no control of the elected political representatives. Those who seek it don't know what control they advocate and that control is weak anyway. So it is quite clear that in the State Judiciary Council, this closed judicial caste has a much greater influence than our fellow MPs sitting there and we must really not be in a position to let that caste choose itself and decide for themselves. That would be devastating. It is also true that the experiments that are being conducted here in the Croatian judiciary, in the Croatian judicial system, do not apply from the EU in their countries. And it's also true that the big question is whether or not we should have abolished the re-election institute. It is a big question that I put before you all and in front of the Croatian public. Which does not mean that perhaps the proposals tabled by fellow respected General Sacic and some others in the debate on the fact that the extension of the mandate of the main state's attorneys is not good proposals, but that does not mean that the control of the policy of elected representatives from the judiciary, from this state's attorney's office, should be removed. What other control we have and what other control we have left, but generally we have a problem with the influence of citizens and the decision-making of citizens and of giving important decisions to courts and technocrats. And we put it out, so the Most is now preparing an important political document, means a declaration, and we have stated that we support Croatia's membership in the EU and NATO, but that important decisions cannot be passed on to courts and technocrats that the Croatian people do not choose. We have now had an example of this referendum where the Constitutional Court makes one political decision, but okay, this Constitutional Court has been elected here as it is in the Croatian Parliament and because of these decisions, it will account. And those who made those decisions, I mean constitutional judges, but also those who chose such constitutional judges. We didn't choose them. Although some media like 24 hours and Mr. Klausko lies that we are involved in such a political trade. Some of whom Mr Hasanbegovic mentioned in his speech participated. So together, SDP and HDZ, Karamarko and Milanovic chose the Constitutional Court and then the constitutional, such a Constitutional Court brought down these, these decisions by the commission. So these are all issues that need to be discussed here. What I want to say is, it's time to move these corrupt clicks out of power. It is not a recipe for solving all our problems, but a recipe for solving all our problems and in the judiciary and in all other spheres of our society is choosing a national conscious, sovereign Croatian government that will not tremble before calls from foreign embassies, which will not comply with the pressures of corporations and banks and will lead exclusively to interest in what is good for Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112462	He will continue on behalf of the same club, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112463	Thank you very much. The State Judicial Council and the Judicial Council as a full judiciary is essentially the biggest cause of people's mistrust in the state in the apparatus, i.e. into a system that would have to be guaranteed security. I'd just like to mention a few things here, but I don't understand why you're now giving these laws in essence when at a time when people actually have a repeat of the least confidence again? I've had a trial case with Stipe Mesic awaiting a verdict on judges she liked, I can't get enough names at all not to mention names at all, but the judge was basically the daughter of a man who was in the Supreme Court who Stipe Mesic pushed as Supreme Court President and now he's in the Supreme Court member. And of course I was looking for an exception, it didn't respect my but she gave up if she saw that it was rigged and that's how this parapolitical body works, and that's why people's biggest mistrust is exactly in the judiciary. How much influence is directly elected national authority, i.e. the hair in Parliament or the direct choice of those of the President of the Republic and of the other bodies as far as there is inside the DSV and DOV. There's a clean protocol, there's these two people who are one of the opposition one of the authorities, they're there, but it's now a closed circle so the influence of parliamentary representatives i.e. those selected by the will of the people or directly or in representative bodies shall have no influence so that the mistrust is growing and greater. I would say here that when you go out for this pay phone to say what you're doing with the state's attorney's office on the matter of Chetnik Alexander Vukic, he often threatens our citizens. You are also a member of an inter-resorship committee to monitor Serbia's entry i.e. Before Serbia's EU accession, this commission was established in 2016 when the government of Andrej Plenkovic and the previous and this one has not met once, during the Mira Kovac, established so that it should be under emergency. There is also a representative of the President of the Republic, i.e. His foreign policy adviser to see that with chapters 23 and 24 and to see if you have filed charges against the probie of Seselj's Vukic, who constantly threatens the Croats, i.e. To the citizens of the Republic of Croatia... we have a problem with this legal jurisdiction throughout the territory of the former state of Yugoslavia by following chapters 23 and 24 rather than keeping silent and opening its chapter. In order to join the EU, we have arrested all the generals, even Seks had to go outside Sanader and Mesic and on behalf of them when the speaker of the assembly said to arrest, locate, arrest, transfer, and process the most morbid roar. Everything was haunted. You under the Chetnik team in the previous meeting of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic spilled the wallpaper, red and lined up the victory Croatian army. And there's another letter of beer and Branko Bacic and all of you when Colinda was here when he was at Colinda's. That's one thing. The second thing, I don't trust the state's attorney's office and I'm talking about the council, but mistrust in the judicial authorities is causing huge economic losses because legal uncertainty is not guaranteed to investors and investors, and we know that we have huge problems. Huge problems, I mentioned people from the PPD in Baška Voda what they did, they denied it in public after I stepped in here, 33,000 m2 in Baška Voda in a very strange way they usurped and in this way they did not essentially PPD firm but Josip Jurčević, I don't know all this Gobac, as they call themselves, I have no idea, it doesn't matter, that click from the PPD took over. Now it's just gone through with Russian capital. I have nothing against Russian capital nobody cares about me, but Russian capital that probably funds those structures that are now in power. And no one can mention it, but on this point, the state's attorney's office will do nothing, it'll work on this grandmother who sells onions here, if she's not selling out of the market, then the state's attorney's office will file a report, then we'll condemn those grandmothers to be in our grandmother's prison. However, the PPD and others will not be afraid, the para-intelligence structures that were once intelligence structures, here I mentioned Josip Jurcevic again, who was very close to former HDZ President Karamark and Vrdoljak, and all of this is not the issue of this political option, and even the political options within HS are under the influence of these PPDs. Just like Agrokor used to be and big systems. So it's mostly hitting on small fish, but it's time for small fish to unite, so they'll swallow that big fish, otherwise the Croatian people have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112464	And now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Vesna Nadj, will speak. Here you go. We can not from the bench please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The DOV has 11 members, seven deputy state attorneys, two HS deputies, one of which is from the opposition, two university professors of legal science. Obviously, the lack of efficiency of the DOV has been seen since the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are called for by the need for the regulation of the reduction of obligations in the exercise of the state's attorneyship for deputy state attorneys who are members of the council and for the president 75%, and members by 20%. Whether these changes will help to achieve the objectives of the Article. 3. The DOV law which prescribes that the Council is an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the state's attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia? In a situation where 80% of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia think that the judiciary is doing badly, and only 17 thinks it works well and very well, for the status reasons of non-potistic clienteleistic reasons and policy influence 68% of you offer us such a young world guide as part of reform, judicial reform. In a situation where we have an outflow of justice because they do not have adequate working conditions, deputy state attorneys are prevented from being hired as judges. In a situation where the main state attorney admits that before running for the post, she went to talk to the minister of justice, and the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia admits that he had called Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, and the point of these calls was that in some cases the DORH responded immediately and in some silences. The Prime Minister says it's not pressure on the DORH, it's a clear and reasoned attitude and it's unusual. When we know that the appointment of the main state attorney or attorney depends on the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, then it is unacceptable for the Prime Minister to call the chief state attorney to give her his position that the DORH should react no matter how clear and reasoned that position is. In addition, the State Attorney's Council is also responsible for verifying the property cards of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys and for launching the implementation of tight procedures. In order to carry out such procedures, parliamentary representatives who are members of the State's Attorney's Council do not have the necessary expertise and professional skills. We can say the same about the State Judgment Council. This should be changed in the case of the first amendment of the Constitution and should ensure transparency, professional and technical conditions for the work of the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council. The Constitution stipulates that the State Judicial Council is an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, but given its composition, it does not have that capacity and, as we have seen, does not guarantee independence. The Proposer cites as reasons for the adoption of these amendments and additions on the State Judicial Council for greater transparency and public availability, and this proposal provides for the obligation to publish a plan to fill the vacancy of the court seats that we commend. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedure of permanent transfer of judges and specific, a special procedure consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duties and talks before the Council shall also be laid down. It would be good if these conversations were made publicly available which is not a problem given the availability of video streaming. The public would certainly be interested in seeing through video streaming from the judge's talks which motivates them for judicial duty, their sense of justice and responsibility in carrying out their duties. There are no objective criteria for estimating the response to these talks, which enables nepotism and clientelism and negative selection. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the council is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. In conditions where the public has little or no confidence in the judiciary, an increase in the discretionary role of the State Judiciary Council will increase this mistrust due to the unclear and intransparent way of estimating the oral responses of the candidates we have heard for 10 minutes. The proposal states that in order to strengthen the strict responsibility of judges of the catalogue of the tight part, it shall be complemented by a strict part of the failure of consent to carry out security checks in accordance with the latest amendments to the Law on Courts prescribed by the periodic security check of judges every 5 years and shall be increased under disorderly conduct of duties, the duty to fulfil the framework criteria for the work of judges from 70 to 100%, and, at the same time, the irregular conduct of the duties shall be determined and the performance of the statutes of limitations for failure to take proceedings without a reasonable reason. In e-consultation, the Association of Croatian Judges opposes this proposal and stresses that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in the context of amendments to the Law on Courts and the introduction of security checks in time spaces for all judges at the General Session on 25 November 2021, expressed a unanimous disagreement with such amendments to the law. At the request of the Association of Croatian Judges, the European Association of Judges also considers that the verification of all judges at time intervals in the Republic of Croatia does not comply with international nor European standards. The security checks of judges every 5 years can bring judges and judicial authority in the position of dependence on the politicians of the executive government and there is no such solution, the EU country said Radovan Dobrnic, president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the view of the Supreme Court. It is proposed to do so in Germany and France as well as in other EU countries. In these countries, the verification of the property of judges is normally carried out by the tax administration under its regular jurisdiction, not by security services. He says he advocates such security measures, that such security measures are implemented once in view of the fact that Croatia, the reputation of the judicial authority in Croatia, is much lower than in Germany and France, and then some tax administrations are engaged in this job as in other European countries. It's clear with SOA is always under the supervision of the executive authority. The proposed provision is therefore discriminatory in relation to judges as well as the officials of the judicial authority because, as part of equality, three state authorities provide for such periodic checks or are prescribed for the holders of executive and legislative authorities. As proposed in these proposals, judges in Croatia would be the only one in a Member State of the EU to be subject to such checks. The Supreme Court states in a statement that there are other legal procedures for tax, pecuniary, criminal, which could verify the property of judges or determine whether individual judges have committed acts that would indicate their non-compliance or security threat. Under disorderly conduct, the duty to comply with the 80-to-100 framework criteria is also increased, and the irregular behaviour of the duty is also determined by the statute of limitations due to the failure to take procedural actions without a reasonable reason. In essence, this proposed amendment means that if the judge does not make 100% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria for the court's work against him, a strict procedure will be initiated. The resolution ministry states that the current framework criteria for the work of judges in 2021 have proved that 63% of judges already reach the level of 80% in September and after their work has slowed down. It is apparent from the above that framework criteria should be amended as it turns out that if the judge makes as many as 99% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria, he will still be severely punished. The work of the courts should be more open to the public and show that they are rewarded by the highest quality, and disciplined by those who, who do not belong in the system. The Social Democrats' Club believes that judges and state lawyers should be able to choose DSV and DOV members from the ranks of judges and state lawyers in a transparent manner, to have all possible information on the candidates themselves, their résumés, motivations to highlight the candidacy, as well as other relevant circumstances such as: A college success that can be important for making decisions to give a vote to a particular judge and to a state attorney. In a situation where we don't have the Lobby Act, we can't let a judge or a state lawyer win a candidate who has a stronger party machine behind him and stronger players either financially, whether related to family, godfather or friendly relationships. We are in favour of reforming DSV and DOV and a transparent way of electing judges within the judiciary itself, and democratic control needs to be ensured by greater transparency in the work of judges and judicial councils by publication and systematicisation of judicial practice and by building an internal control system. We believe that the proposal for this law is not aimed at reforming the judiciary, so the Club of Representatives will therefore not support these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112466	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112467	Dear MPs, I'll talk about the reasons for the eviction. The main reason for eviction is the weak dysfunctional, in fact poorly designed institutions because such institutions cannot exercise control of different branches of state government and that is what has left corruption from the chain in the Republic of Croatia. DOV and DSV play an important role in this, and what the whole process looks like is actually starting from the study itself. Imagine now an industrious student of law or a hardworking student who learns legal definitions throughout the day and night, tries to connect the concepts, then enters the exercise system either in court, whether in the state's attorney's office and is aware of citizens' expectations that such jobs are doing the best among us and then confronts the fact that his choice or appointment, for example in the DSV, his responsibilities, the objection to the assessment he received for his work, and even whether he can carry out any additional tasks and ultimately go to a cake to check his property cards, decides for example Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here I was working on the items and procedures of checking the property cards and I really can't imagine what it looks like when someone from these benches is doing it. And as long as that's how we do about such legal proposals, we have nothing to discuss with these quasi reforms. This way, we design the DOV cannot perform its fundamental role, which is to check the integrity of the integrity of the professionality of the state's attorneys and the state's attorneys who work in it. Long ago, I said that the constitution needs to be changed first of all, and if we are discussing changes to the constitution in some other segments, then we should be accepted and those provisions that allow us to have the possibility of reelection, one mandate that takes longer without being able to repeat was also one of the recommendations of GRECO, but all of these good recommendations are not heard by this authority and therefore we have a situation where when the state's attorney should be questioned and investigated and prosecuted by ministers such as Coric, such as Banozic, Beros, we have a state attorney who can't and can't because he doesn't dare because he's suffering for the second term and then the worst in this government are further rewarded, for example, by Ćoric's appointment as vice governor in the CNB. As far as the construction of the DOV and DSV itself is concerned, instead of the 11 members spoken of by Vesna Nadj, we can reduce it, it is important that those who do not perform the job in their professional capacity are removed from the membership, certainly there is no place for Assembly representatives who are not even lawyers. In my opinion, the DOV needs to be state lawyers, and in DSV only judges, even for legal professions or members who come from the ranks of the academic community there are no seats, these should be professionalized functions which have some specific knowledge of the specific tasks they are tasked with. If we had those bodies well-organized, with good results, then we wouldn't resort to these kind of criminal situations that don't exist anywhere in Europe, which is that our judges and state lawyers are checking out our secret services. What we've done with SOA, which will actually serve only corrupt ministers in the government, perhaps today and some corrupt president is one of the most difficult, brutal and most dangerous political blows to the independence of the judiciary, and I don't need to be surprised at all, either by me or by any of you that such a blow has made by one HDZ government. With regard to the proposal of some opposition MPs, judges and state lawyers should have a permanent term of office, but by rotating the one at 4 g. I also think it is a monstrous idea, perhaps such a thing can work well in the United States, but certainly not in a society like this, not in a society where 16.4% of Croatian citizens choose a corrupt, corrupt political party. Imagine if we had something like that when we chose judges and state's chief attorneys, so where would corruption in this country end? So don't play with such suggestions, don't play with them. And as for the results of the work, a little less visible, perhaps less exposed to the public, each parliamentary representative could determine only if he gave a little effort to look at what is on the website and the DOV and DSV and the new, redesigned, digitized. There's absolutely nothing there. Property cards should at least have been made publicly available to judges and top state lawyers according to published reports of long ago. And here I invite you to open a website so see how many user friendly formats it is and how many citizens can enter any judge or state attorney's property card, how many clicks and how many requests and compare it to, for example, the property cards of our officials, so one big nothing. As for the verification itself, it is repeatedly stated in these reports that the verification will be established when the conditions are met. Currently, for many years it has been in the phase of networking of databases such as DOV and DSV with other state bodies. In 2015, 2015, I do not know what to do with the DOV and DSV. So it waits, waiting until now for such a system to be declared slow, ineffective, one that does not give results so that SOA can infiltrate in such checks, and it is known why and to whom it goes in favour of an independent judiciary in any case not. And the third in which parliamentarians also have their responsibilities are specific subjects of strict responsibility and the very verification of property cards. So, if you look at how many such cases in the entire state's attorney's office or judiciary at all, you'll see very, very, very little, and what little has been made transparently public that every state attorney can determine what is considered inappropriate and not ethical to his profession. There's nothing better for the judge himself. And as long as the judiciary doesn't realize within itself that it has to get rid of its weeds, that it has to be cleaned out of the cereals, until it realizes that inappropriate procedures must not only be made public and made public to everyone visible and available but that such decisions must not even be anonymous, we can also not go forward. In 2021. Only two decisions have been made concerning the strict responsibilities of the state's attorneys. Whoever the hell that was referring to is the one in charge of Drazen Jelenić. And as they were properly explained, we see from the fact that they were returning again, that the court was revoking them because there was no argument that it was well argued why the chief state attorney could not also be a masseuse and that is all that the Croatian judiciary needs to know. But it's not only the judges, it's not the judges, it's not the state's chief attorneys, we're the parliamentarians who either have no will or have no knowledge that we're putting our institutions in order, to establish them at least roughly similar to what such institutions look like in neighbouring, well-functioning states. And just so it doesn't turn out that I've been very sharp about it, the fact is, for example, there are members in the DOV that I highly respect and appreciate and I think they're quality, they're not as corrupt as the public thinks. And I also know that I have been alone in such a life, and in such circumstances there is no greater frustration, but there is really no greater frustration than being in an institution where you want to do your job properly, but these limits of your authority and jurisdiction do not allow. This is exactly the kind of problem all those honest and brave who are currently working in DSV and DOV would have, unfortunately, such are a difficult minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112468	Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, respected representatives Bosnjakovic and Jelkovic will speak. First of all, the respected representative Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have two extremely important laws before us, the DSV Act and the DOV Act, and we see that both DOV and DSV are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as independent and independent bodies that ensure the independence and independence of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. These are those bodies that deal with and implement the appointments of judicial officials, their resolutions, decision-making on progress, and we see that this is really about extremely important bodies. If we look at the history of the establishment and definition of such bodies then we would see that it was actually extremely important in the entry negotiations and... EU member states in Chapter 23 then, in fact, a criterion was set before the Republic of Croatia where it was required to completely change the system of appointments of both judges and state lawyers and to get the policy out of this process as far as possible out as possible. If we go back a little while before, we can see in principle that, at a time before that, DSV members rarely actually left as DSV members in the process for more and more significant functions or switched to degrees higher. That was unacceptable. What has also been suggested as unacceptable is that politics has just been given an opinion by the Parliamentary Committee on Justice on Candidates, to all candidates who have applied to certain courts. Although I must say at that time, I did not see what was wrong because it was approached at that time in one very way that I did not see politics having influence but the parliamentary committee always made and gave the opinion that all candidates who appeared were meeting the formal conditions and then it was left to the DSV in fact that it was making a decision on who it was. So, after that, there was precisely this designing of DSV as an independent body with an composition that someone has observations on, someone would put it together or something like this, but it was actually the result of both negotiations and constitutional changes that they were. And as a member of the DSV chosen from this assembly, I would say as soon as possible that I think the DSV is doing its job well because if someone was listening to this debate he might think that this is all about some kind of kitchens, setting up political lines and all that, and I'm seeing how I'm experiencing this work, in fact that there are the most decisive points that someone does, and the DSV out of this box doesn't come out, and I think that's the most honest and honest approach that can be. And what I want to say is that there's a lot of great candidates, so there's no getting out of some kind of political candidate hat, so now that's what someone on the political line is calling it, but I just think it's a fair process where quality is valued and where the results that someone in their work has achieved are worth it. This law certainly makes steps forward and these changes will in any case contribute to me thinking better work of DSV and better staff policy. It's good that this deadline for publication of the fill-up plan is reduced, I think it's good, and this one that actually DSV has no more 15 points than 20 points, so it'll be able to better fulfill that role it has, meaning not only that it's a statistic but that it's actually someone who thinks it should be. It is also very good that special methodology is introduced for advisors and that advisers will receive an evaluation based on their work, not based on a passed judicial exam or a state school exam, because this assessment will actually enable them to really value what they did, and the largest number of candidates comes from the ranks of consultants. And I can say that a lot of candidates appear and can't all be simply appointed and there might be a need to think about strengthening the advisory function. What only I would express some doubt or say to think about until the second reading is this consent to the security checks you define, its acronym as a stupendous act, think about it because consent is actually based on the fact that this is my choice I will give it or not. If I answer, if I deny consent, it's a kind of coercion. Think about it for a second reading, and as far as I'm concerned, this law is a step forward anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112470	Next is the debate of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112471	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with the secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I will continue on what my colleague Bosnjakovic said, so although both of these legal proposals are good because in certain segments they balance the work of these two councils, it also prescribes some important specificities that are important for the effective work of each of them. In addition to the fact that it is about keeping an eye on the keeping of an eyewitness because it is run by both the Ministry and the State's attorney and the courts in this way that makes it easier for the council itself, it also provides technical support, which I think is good. As regards the introduction and determination of the need to fill the place of deputy state attorneys for the purpose of permanent transfer of deputies, the obligation of competent state lawyers to supply relevant data is introduced, and it is also a condition that the transfer to another state attorney's office of the same degree may be requested only by the deputy who has been acting for three years, which has not been the case so far and I consider it to be a good newspaper because the invitations to tender have occurred often for appointments of those who wanted to be appointed, but have not only been in charge of the place of duties, and have already, after the next publication of a tender that corresponded to them more in place of duty, re-applicated to the appointment tender and it has additionally burdened the work of both the DOV and DSV, so I think that this paper is very significant. In the process of appointing a provision of this law, it also complies with the provisions of the State School for Judicial Officials, which I also consider to be good. The procedure for the appointment of deputy county attorneys shall be brought in line with the provisions of this law and shall also allow persons who have previously exercised judicial duties with the criteria of specific written examination of the knowledge to be appointed. For the Council's greater effectiveness, it is also prescribed that the council does not have to call for an interview with a candidate who, even with the highest number of points in the interview, could not be appointed or could not outnumber other candidates who would get, say, a minimum number of points, and I think that this will speed up the work of the council, especially when a large number of candidates appear in the competition. I remember, since I was also a member of the DOV to know how to report 50 candidates per contest, so I think this is a good newspaper, with the fact that only in the publication of the final order and the final number of points should make sure that it is transparent and does not raise doubts among the candidates themselves. The largest number of points that the council can give in the discussion, as Bosnjakovic said, has been increased from 15 to 20, and I believe that this is good because both councils are independent and independent, and their jurisdiction is to appoint judges or deputy state attorneys. If we can narrow them down just so that they can add up what the candidates bring to themselves and that by giving them points they can't have any effect on the choice of candidates, then I think we've derivated that authority. I therefore believe that this, this increase in points will contribute to their independence in the appointment, but it will also not reduce those other objective criteria that those who need to be respected. As far as the other changes are concerned, I also believe that the good and the newspaper that is being introduced into a tight procedure are in just determining the penalty. In fact, it is increasing here in a way that determines the fines by introducing a new one, but I also think it is a good thing that some more, some details are prescribed as well as that the start of the term of office of members of the council is accounted for by making an oath because so far has been written since the elections, which then led to inequality, inequality and inequality in application. As regards the obligation to submit an asset report at the end of the duty for deputies, what is already in place for judges is now being introduced, which is that, upon termination of the duty, that obligation for them It doesn't exist. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, in short, the HDZ Club will support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112472	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Club of Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112473	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, let me throw a little glove out of the opposition to my colleagues. Can you think of a scandalous decision by the State Judiciary Council in the last two years since I've been a member, and I've missed seeing it so it turns out I've misrepresented you. As far as the State Judiciary Council is concerned, I know a little less about the State Attorney's Council because I'm not a member, but what I do know is that the difference between DSV and DOV is important because of the relationship within the structure. In the State's Attorney's Office, it's a bit of a stronger hierarchy, so all 7 who are actually appointed there are part of the same hierarchy and they have to listen to the same boss, and 7 are elected, and 7 judges who are elected to DSV still don't have to listen to the same boss, and they are, too, there are more. On the other hand, I believe that one amendment should be introduced to the provisions of Mr. Minister's law which speaks of the way these two bodies decide. And that is to prescribe that the decision cannot, that the decision has not been made if it has not been voted by at least one member of the DVS or the DVV who is not a judge or a state lawyer, or to rephrase it to say clearly, it is necessary to give the veto to the judicial and not the state's attorney's department in decision-making. So judges and state lawyers there are the majority, but it is necessary to prevent the majority from making decisions against everyone else. And that would be one balance that would be desirable. Can you imagine a situation where all the judges are on one side and all the representatives and all the teachers on the other side? This shows significant alienation, it would show if there were to be a significant alienation of that part of the profession from the rest of the public. And it should be prescribed by this mechanism, it is, probably very rarely or almost never would have happened but it should be put to know that when they have already given the constitution the opportunity to have most of them in that way. Of course, I speak here in a distance from the profession that is there because it can happen that it is alienated from the people, it has all the mechanisms, it can decide on its own, it calls for independence and independence, so I guess it should at one point have a red button to say it can't, not exactly call itself a major state attorney now. Although I have to stand up for the attorney general. What is not there for this speaker admitted that she called the minister before her appointment, counterpart Bosnjakovic admitted it, so it was only these who returned the call, it is not illegal. I'm kidding. Now a little bit about the legal text itself. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that Article 30 little, Article 30, you liberalise a little bit of this so that it doesn't turn out to be written just because of one candidate who will run for, in the elections for the DSV article in the High Court of Criminal Court. Then it's better that for these elections, when we have a new court, all high court representatives can be the ones who are Frenchly appointed, they won't change much, and they won't have a lex with a picture maybe. Secondly, I heard this today from Professor Djurdjevic on the board that she had a problem with the fact that, say, someone who's a deputy chief, deputy state attorney, a municipal state attorney, can't run for judge. That I couldn't find in the law, but this one if, that, that would be disproportionate, disproportionate restriction. Now, I've come several times into the situation that in the talks for candidates for admission to service, or for the appointment of judges of the lowest courts, a much better candidate who has fewer points than a candidate with more points really works. And then I come who in that joke to whom I trust more, the examination committee of the judicial school or my own eyes. This is indeed one situation that can happen sometimes and that is actually coming to this quite large question whether the examination committee of the State School for Judicial Officials is above the constitution of the prescribed body that should be appointed by judges. This change, proposed to increase the number of points, reduces the panel's discretional assessment of DSV but does not look good in the public. I think that equating the criteria for these starting points should do so, something that in the ski jumps for the crash and the wind that follows the ski jumps, that simply the average score in each generation which was so in front of the same commission at the same time should be some basic, basic value and then be compared to that average, that the performance of each generation is assessed in relation to that average. In fact, the older one, the older ones in that school, they passed the exam when it mattered whether you passed or didn't pass, when it wasn't the points that mattered. It's about like college when you refuse grade two, so you come back and get four again. They didn't have a chance to refuse grade 2 and they couldn't take it again to get grade 4, and then those younger ones who came in later when they figured it out simply if they saw they weren't exactly in shape on purpose and then they came in next time and they got ahead and that's a pretty big problem that should be solved. Now something about transparency. I consider Mr. Ministers from the experience of two-year work in the DSV that a single ranking list should be established for each calendar year for the appointment of the lowest courts, so that the talk with candidates who come to apply to the lowest courts is made once a year and that a single ranking list is made for the whole year and when the first ad comes for the free court first on the list is called and said good day, we have a free place here, do you want to work there, yes, not go next. That's much more effective, more rational, here's a colleague of Jelkovac's going to agree, I can see she's not watching me, she's going to be talking to me five times. If, of those who appear for the first reception, or for the first appointment of a council, they decide that they will not appoint someone and remove them from the list, it would be subject to the control of the constitutional court and that would be correct. So this is how we have, we have this plus, for some candidates I've memorized all their biographical data, what they've been doing up to, what, what they've been doing because they're coming 6th, 7th or 10th time to talk, it doesn't make any sense. Therefore, this would be a significant increase in the fact that at the beginning of the calendar year, a single ranking list would be made from place one to as many as possible, and they would have the right to choose which court they would like first to be named by the foundation of the ad, based on the plan that goes forward, going forward and then not to report for court in place A, and then report for court in place B because it is closer to them and more answers, then I would immediately say I am the first or first on the list and I want to go to court in place B, get off the list, go to 2, 3, 5 and 7, that would only mean that DSV would have a strike, strike December and that is that, so I would have talked with all interested, but would not have held 5 interviews with the same. As far as the public is concerned, I also have to object to the media. DSV sessions are open to the public, and they were only when the president of the high court and the president of the County Court in Zagreb were appointed. I think it would be good, in fact, to have the DSV sit in HS or one of these halls, so that logistic support is given to him by executive authority, and to him to be exposed to the public in HS. That would be, let's say, that I'll give the amendment to, to, to, to, to, to, to second reading when it is, and that's that DSV at its regular sessions has in HS. And then there's the press, and then there'd be a little more, a little more public work for the DSV. I hope it's mine, my line from the beginning to try to remember if there's been any scandalous DSV decisions in the last 2 years. among other things, as a consequence of the fact that the public or the media are insufficiently monitoring the work of DSV and DOV. This thing with the DOV that Jelenić gives them back to them four times the Supreme or which court is that to them, it's one minus, but it's about that one. Therefore, the respected minister in the dilemma that part of the law will better evaluate the one we agree with or disagree with here is a little more relaxed when we first read. I suggest you seriously consider these few suggestions that I made in the debate. In this regard, until the SDP vote, the club will decide that it will vote on these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112474	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112475	I thank the chairman. Here I have looked at today and the debate that was on the Committee on Justice and I see that again all those remarks that have been highlighted have been highlighted, in fact, in the very process of public consultation on these two proposals, legislative proposals. First, we must say again that it is actually amazing that after all Justice Scoreboard after all the bad results that we have, in principle, the judiciary and perceptions of the independence of the judiciary, we still do not go in the direction of some simple changes both within the DSV and within the DOV, which would improve the perception of the judiciary in that part. It is defeating that in Justice Scoreboard this year, based on research so far, the latest results show that public mistrust in judicial independence has increased to as much as 80%. When you look at that graph, you won't see it, let me turn it over to you, but when you look at it comparatively with other countries, it's incredible differences, so people who don't trust the judiciary think they're doing bad or very bad, or that they're not that big of an independent share of other countries that it's really saying that something fundamentally doesn't work. Now we can talk here that a certain perception has been created in public, that the media is guilty, etc. What we've already heard from the former, formerly I'm stressing the Supreme Court president, but the fact is that when 80% of people have this perception that something in the system is rotting. One of the key reasons and here we are worst at EU level is the issue of perception of the influence of policy on judges, the issue of the influence of stakeholders on judges, but also the question of how these judges are elected. And now this is exactly what this part of the reform is about, the question of the choice of judges and state lawyers, so the key element is actually every judicial system. So, today, Professor Djurdjevic, but it was also pointed out in the e-Advise itself that instead of strengthening objective criteria for the choice of judges and state lawyers, more discretion and the severity of the discretionary assessment of DSV members or the election of state lawyers to DOV. In particular, the interview, that is, as she said, a ten-minute conversation, is about to take place, carries 20 points that makes absolute progress compared to other criteria, and the worst part is that there are no objective criteria in the criteria, which are objectively verifiable criteria, such as success at the Faculty of Law, completion, success in the judicial exam, etc., etc. So those things we can measure. No, a ten-minute interview measuring the sense of justice is more important and will have more than all of someone's work during education and elections. We have already proposed here and I will now say it again and it is not just us we proposed, the biggest experts of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, but also other universities in legal sciences say we need a leak within the judiciary. When we say that we should let those who are not... judges in the system of trial and that we do not have enough and it does not happen that as judges are elected by people who have worked until then in another part of the legal profession, prominent prominent lawyers with a long history of practice, professors of law school, people who do other levels of legal science, science. And why do we need that? Because when you have a system that chooses itself, and we allow it to choose itself and reproduce itself, it is hermetically closed from the public, but also from other parts of the profession and how we can expect that system to transform itself in any way. So that's impossible, I mean look at the system theory, I mean it's not going like that, he's not going to run himself in the other direction. And these are some basic remarks here, so we don't make it possible again and again for the majority of DSV and DOV to reproduce themselves according to interests that not have this profession but that one small closed part of that profession and not to open it further. So we've said the same thing when it comes to other parts of judicial reform, we'll repeat it again, so we can't measure the court, the judges' successes, and thus condition their progress by fulfilling the quotas because it's not such a job. This is not a job where you will prescribe exactly how many cases he will solve, what we can prescribe is not how it is conducted, and within what time period of the main debate, whether in litigation, whether in criminal proceedings, and why, for example, they should be joined by time, hearings within them. Let's just say we can do this, but we can't tell people you're going to solve so many cases a year that's your norm because the case case is different. When judicial reform was carried out with the help of both the European Commission and consultants from different countries, EU member states, then the UK was also a member of Serbia, one of the key problems encountered is how to weigh, how to weigh the weight of a particular case compared to setting a certain standard and there is no perfect system. The Americans came with their own, they came with their own, and they all admitted that there is really no system that would set objective criteria on this basis because it is impossible to get it out in advance, is and if we go in this direction we need to know that the experiences of other countries are much bigger, much more developed in that sense, and that they have advised our neighbouring country also in this respect concluded that in fact such a model may not be the best model and we do not need then to go that way and repeat others' mistakes. Except that the judges are forced to work in conditions that they are, and the state's attorneys that we're not talking about working conditions, I don't know if anyone's ever been there and seen that, so people leave the state's attorney's office and these great people who were one of the top students and students later got a job at the state's attorney's office, advanced, etc., are leaving because they work 11 or 12 hours a day because they don't have enough because they work on weekends, and they work in conditions that we can't imagine here, where they don't have room for the archives, let alone for anything else, where they don't have their own desk but share it with their colleagues. These are the conditions in which judges and the like work. And in all this, we judge them not by success in terms of the trial but by statistics, and then that's what the Croatian Judges' Association here has put in the e-Advisership and we're checking them out, but not only are we checking them out, but they'll be subject to a tight procedure if they don't give consent to a security check. Well, people, that's what it is, so I think it's really on the trail of some systems I guess they wouldn't want to go back to. As a security check on the team, it can work if you agree to it, but the catch 22 if you don't say yes, then we'll be chasing you tightly. So it's totally amazing, and you people have to wipe it out, it's not going to go anywhere. I mean, in the Constitutional Court, I'm sure this is going to go down, and I hope it goes down if it's really going to work out. So, the fact is that judges are placed in a position to agree to a security check by SOA which is part of the executive authority where these findings can always be manipulated, where they do not have the possibility of appeal. How are you gonna complain about that finding and what are you gonna do about it? And if you don't agree to that, then you're being prosecuted. As far as the Council of State is concerned, strict procedures should be carried out in public, public. They need to be open to the public, and we also think they should to establish a court of gravity within the State Judicial Council. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112476	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Fair Croatian Honored Representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112477	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the Law on the State Judicial Council regulates the procedures and conditions for the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council, the termination of their duties, the procedure and the conditions for appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution of judges, the procedure for determining their strict responsibility, the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts as well as other issues relating to the work of the State Judiciary Council. As the Proposer has stated, the draft legislative proposal has been approached to level the criteria for the candidate of members of the Board of Judges of all courts, and to remove existing discrimination arising from the prescribed conditions for the conduct of a judicial office in a court of a particular type of at least five years, taking into account the time of the proceedings of the Court itself. For that reason, regardless of the conditions laid down by the Judges of the Court of Justice referred to in Decision of 8 November 2019, it shall give the right to be candidates in the first elections for members of the Council of Judges who will implement this law after the entry into force of this law. It is also due to greater efficiency in the work of the council, according to the motions, in the procedures for the appointment of judges, that the council has no obligation to call on candidates who, even with the highest possible number of points in the interview with the number of points reached according to other prescribed criteria, cannot be appointed and the Council is left out of the bounds that it does not call candidates who have achieved less than 130 points in their duty assessment. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the council is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process, and for the same reason, by increasing the rounds of the best candidates between which choice can be made and by increasing the possible difference in points between the best and the selected candidate council as an independent and independent body, the decision to appoint judges is extended to the discretionary decision on the best candidates. Well, fellow MPs, I see a serious problem here, and it's with the right to discretionary decision. I'm going to remind you of a kind of affair not long ago or better to say the indignity of the DSV, the bodies that were meant to ensure the independence of the judges, which made a spectacular mistake in selecting judges. The DSV, which includes experienced judges, law professors and two politicians, still violated the constitutional rights of two judges. This was the essence of a recent decision by the Constitutional Court that revealed the shame of the State Judiciary Council in the process of appointing a new judge of the County Court in Sisak in the first half of last year. The DSV's decision in that appointment was abolished following a lawsuit by the judges who, or the judges who competed for that position. In fact, DSV chose a candidate who failed to score the highest number of points, while not making an effort in detail and clearly explaining such a decision that they would still have to do by law. For this reason, the proceedings were practically ignored by judges who pointed to misjudgements of the conduct of the judicial duty that affected the final ranking. The Constitutional Court therefore concluded that the judges were violated by constitutional rights and sent the DSV to the correctional. I will also mention the example of a constitutional suit filed against the DSV decision by a judicial advisor at the municipal state attorney's office in Split. The State Judiciary Council also received the language of soup from the Constitutional Court and reiterated for the same reason the violation of the constitutional rights of the candidates for the courts' seats in the appointment of judges. The Constitutional Court abolished the DSV's decision to appoint a smaller-ranking candidate for the municipal court in Split and to skip a candidate who had as much as 7.44 points more than he did. A candidate who is better placed on the ranking list, who was skipped in the appointment of DSV, violated the constitutional right to be available under equal conditions, so the decision-making process for the appointment of two judges of the Split Municipal Court must be repeated. The contest was called for two seats in that court, with ten candidates facing a wave of judicial advisers. As for candidates who enter the judicial profession for the first time, their expertise is being tested at the legal academy for a rather demanding final exam, and the applicant’s examination was convincingly the best. First one on a 276-point ranking list. She received 3 points more than the second-placed counsellor at the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Split, and as many as 18 points more than the primarily elected adviser of the Split Commercial Court. However, the points in the final exam are not final. They also include points that the candidate receives in an interview with DSV members, and the DSV that best solved the final exam was quite reluctant. In the range of zero to 15 points with as much as I can value the interview with the candidate, she was only given a modest 4.22 point. According to the second-placed final exam, the interview was worth 13.78 points, while the previously selected candidate who did not brilliant in the final exam simply spelled out the maximum possible 15 points for the interview gave him 14.78 points. So on the final score sheet, she was second-placed on the knowledge test with 286,78 points. The applicant for the constitutional court ended up second-placed with 280.22 points, and was originally elected thanks to almost maximum points during an interview in the overall order jumped to 3rd place with 272,78 points. The DSV, according to its constituent, showed additional generosity in the final decision for the municipal court judges in Split at a session held in January 2021, appointed the first-placed one from the final list and the third-placed one by skipping the second-placed applicant of the lawsuit even though looking at the total points had as much as 7.44 points more than DSV voters. The DSV law requires that in those cases where that body chooses to give priority to a candidate with fewer points, in no case shall it be appointed as a candidate who has more than 10 points less than the one skipped in the reasoning have to specify precisely what are the specific reasons which led him to such a decision. In this decision, however, DSV did not state any particular reasons why they appointed a candidate with 7.44 points less on the final list than the prosecutor, and even 18 points less on the legal knowledge exam. The final constitutional court suspended the DSV's decision to appoint two judges of the Split Municipal Court and ordered the DSV to repeat the decision-making process. In the shortest lines, the Constitutional Court recalls that decisions taken by the DSV using the powers entrusted to it by the constitution and by law must not be unfair, unreasonable, irrational or arbitrary. in disagreement with the rule of law. The DSV quoted the Constitutional Court as saying that it violated the constitutional right to have a job on equal terms because it did not state any specific reasons in the decision to appoint two judges of the Municipal Court in Split, which would make it clear why it gave priority to the candidate with fewer points. Therefore, the constitutional court cannot remove doubts about the arbitrary DSV decision. According to current DSV work, it seems to me that there is a very dangerous situation in which, in the proposed provision, amendments to this law allow for a greater discretionary assessment of DSV members. It seems that the proposed changes are trying to play the constitutional court itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112478	The following is an individual debate and is the first respected Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112479	Now a little Lifestyle section from the series “Let the Institutions Do Their Jobs. ” So in a pietresque town on the coast, a Croatian institution spent the privatisation of a meadow playing soccer and its environment and the entire rural road to the cemetery. Then the second Croatian institution estimated that the first Croatian institution should not have done so. The third Croatian institution claims that the evaluation of the second Croatian institution in which it said it was, said the first Croatian institution should not have done so, unimplementable and illegal. The fourth Croatian institution, however, says that those who crack the ball on meadows can still do it on meadows, but the fifth Croatian institution says they can no longer do it next to the meadow, while the sixth Croatian institution says that those who have now received a trip for the stands next to the meadow where football plays proved nothing to have a ticket to the football field. The seventh Croatian institution proposed to the eighth Croatian institution to pass a law requiring international assistance, and then to include the 11th Croatian institution, the 12th Croatian institution and, in fact, the sentence "let the institutions do their job" get their vicious, ominous names in the sense that it would be better if only one institution were to do its job and this other institution was to control, without including twelve institutions. Of course, I'm talking about this case that I think, of course, the company that's involved has a perfectly legitimate right to demand its rights, that everyone has the right to fight for their rights, but in the end, it's the state that needs that Gordian knot to cut off and it's going to cut it either in arbitration, or in cooperation, it would be better in cooperation for everyone. This is what one meadow, its environment and rural road to the cemetery were discussed by the head of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the chief state attorney, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the wife of the former president of the United Kingdom, whether this should have come this far, all because of the work of the institutions that name those institutions that we are discussing today. So the next time we talk about trust in an institution, let that picture eventually remain clear. If the church hadn't been in that part of the place, God wouldn't have saved her from privatization as they were going. And now, two more words about what my colleague Vukovac was saying. I am keenly interested in explaining how the decision of the collegiate collective body was taken by 12 votes, with 8 votes in favour and 4 against. It means that, which were the reasons for someone to give so many points to one candidate. So someone gave 12, someone gave 6, someone gave 4 and then there was an arithmetical environment. Which genius could explain why I gave 12 and why someone gave 6 and some 3 gave 4. So, within the framework of what the legislator gave DSV discretionary rights, they acted. I don't remember whether I was among those who voted for these candidates or not. As a rule, I try to vote mostly for those who have more points, but I allow myself the right sometimes not to be satisfied with them because I say again whether I will trust my eyes or this committee of justice who also has some kind, some kind of discretionary powers of evaluation. Here, I mean, we were all at school, so we figured maybe the professor was too hard on us and gave us a low grade, and we deserved more or more. What may not be good in what is well seen, should not increase this discretionary space to DSV and DOV, is not necessary. If another is to be conducted, another way of standardising the evaluations made in different years, then that space can be further reduced. So this is a more mathematical question and the question is actually, as far as discretionary powers are concerned. They are now limited to a maximum of 24 points, let it be reduced to 15 but then within those 15 there are no more arguments that is, it is a decision based on the right of government, the right that gave you the Constitution to appoint and you do not need to be specifically explained by my position In my opinion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112480	We have a few replicas. The first one is Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112481	A colleague of Bauk's Croatian judiciary, as you know from the European Commission, is seen as the worst in the EU. The government in which you were sitting initiated the Act on Pre-departure settlement where courts confirmed pre-departure plans, for example, when the Tax Land Administration in Vinkovci accepted an estimate that the land was worth 100 euros per square square, and that land was an ordinary field and was overrated fivefold. The DORH said of this scandalous fact that your former Minister Linic absolutely has no responsibility. What is clear to both the Croatian and international public was formulated by Dr. Dauster of Munchen, otherwise the judge who condemned your rescue employees Mustac and Perkovic. On the question of journalists about the statements of the so-called A lawyer named Nobil said Nobilo was fantasizing. Do you agree with the assessment that in Croatia the problem is not laws but judicial officials with communist tails and corruption methods?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112482	Thank you, first of all, I think that for the Pre-departmental Deal Act, at the end of the day, it's the opposition vote because he's got some good stuff, and he's had these problems, of course. And it seems to me, if I recall, that was eight years ago, that, among other things, that meadow in Vinkovci was one of the reasons why the Prime Minister then replaced the Minister of Finance. Now I don't know, I don't know about DORH's actions. As far as this second one is concerned, I, as I followed the National newspaper Perkovic, was twice appointed to the HDZ government not in ours, so I wouldn't, I couldn't fully agree with you in that part. Now, as far as laws are concerned, they are a minor problem because laws can be changed if they are seen not to be good, and as far as judicial officials are concerned, there are good judicial officials and the bad ones. Are these exactly the reasons you said, I don't know what someone's communist tails would be, that it's against private, that it's against private ownership and multiparty system are your problem... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112483	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112484	I thank the chairman. Here's my colleague Bauk, I must say I disagree with your observation I think it's quite a slippery terrain when we extend our right to discretionary evaluation, but I wanted to replicate something else. I'm interested in how you look at checking the property cards. For example, here is the President of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod 2 years ago submitted his property card, which says that he received or bought for only 8,000 kuna penthouse sizes close to 100 m2, so at the price of 80 kuna per square. Two years have passed since the said judge was called to prove and the DSV is obliged to prove whether the procedure was legal in accordance with the regulations, however there is no answer. In an article, I read that only the Ministry of Justice prevents them from doing so and that we will obviously never know the truth. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112485	As far as this first one is concerned, we disagreed. I also feel that there is a need to narrow down the discretionary space, but then, within that narrowed-down discretionary space, there is no more room to explain. So she says it's my decision and I'm standing behind her or I'm not behind her. As we in the assembly when we passed the law, that is, the Constitution gave us the right to pass laws, if some law is unconstitutional, then the Constitutional Court abolished it, but there is no need to further explain why we voted yes or no. As far as the judge's property cards are concerned, I have to say that in two years, I haven't met 1.5 of the DSV's work with property card issues and I think it's both good and bad. It's bad because nobody does it, and it's good because it's not what judges do. However, what I think should apply to judges on property cards is the same law as the officials and that it is done by the Commission for the conflict of interest which is nevertheless slightly more effective and devoid of these shackles of which the DSV is referring to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112486	The next replica of the esteemed Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I'm glad that you as a mathematician touched this number of points and calculations, and you also pointed out that as a DSV member, you didn't give that candidate who came with the highest number of points the maximum number of points because he didn't give you the best impression. And it's really this situation that needs to be respected because someone may not have to get the highest number of points from the state school exam, maybe it wasn't given him, maybe he had some other family or his life problem, so he didn't get the best result, but so far we've had the situation that this result actually knew how to cement him about his further progress. I believe that this increase in the number of points cannot go against this number of points with which they come to just leave space that in a situation where there are more candidates that can truly be assessed fairly and that those who have really made the best impression get the highest number of points and that both DOV and DSV, who have per constitution as an independent and independent body of appointment powers, can really influence that designation. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112488	As my colleague Vukovac said, it's a slippery terrain, but I've got a lot of big hacks on my swimsuits, so I don't, I don't mind talking about it. Yes, so sometimes it used to happen that a person who got fewer points on the exam really made a much better impression or vice versa, that one who showed exceptional knowledge in the exam had little problem with social and other skills to say so. He may have had a bad day at the interview, but ultimately, on the basis of all these criteria, a decision is made within the framework of the legal framework literally. So, if I have the right to vote for someone, I'll vote if that's my best and I don't think I should particularly explain it if I don't have to explain it. What I think would be good for Mr. Secretary of State to prescribe that for every time a court counselor received the highest grade as an officer to be added to him as one point, we will thus further these with experience that were good in the ministry bring the possibility of being appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112489	Following is an individual debate of the respected Karoline Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112490	Ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments to the Law on DOV and DSV have been completely missed and do not solve any problems in the operation of either the state's attorney's office or the judiciary because DOV and DSV fall under the main causes of the blocked judicial order in Croatia. Let's take DOV that in its structure and composition itself is problematic and in its nature prevents any positive change in the operation of the DORH. Namely, DOV is made up of DORH people and people from key political parties, and they should control the work of the DROH and sanction abuses in the work of the attorney's office. So that means that employers should punish their perpetrators. For example, in that council, Peja Grbin probably sat to protect his friends from being punished for the billions of embezzlements they had made to Croatian citizens. But DOHR's task is not only to pursue violations of the law and corruption but also to return stolen Croatian property by pro-active action to Croatian citizens. The DROH is equipped with various instruments in the international legal order that could ensure that stolen and exported money from Croatia is returned to Croatia. However, our DORH is a folk figure of an institution that is of no use to anything. DORH's investigations are the subject of mockery by Croatian schoolboys, for example, by whom the name of the anti-organised crime is already concerned with issues of who hired in the state service or state-run company, and cases such as Agrokor where billions of people were brought out of Croatia mean stolen, not USKOK, but a regular county attorney's office. What excuse do we hear through media structures about God’s complicated corrupt actions, e.g. In the case of Agrokor, stories are for small children. Here's a letter from the 2014 Bureau of the Prevention of Money Laundering. which was then investigating a 25m-euro payment of Agrokor to the British Virgin Islands, as is known to be a tax oasis, it was a method of how taxes were being cut off and the money was being made from Croatia because of the level of corruption i.e. its height in Croatia is so huge that it is impossible to hide it, there is no need for some special legal knowledge and finesse of international corrupt trends because Croatia is faced with the most primitive form of corruption. As Todorovic was not responsible for these 25m euros that he unlawfully alienated in the tax oasis, Emil Tedeschi was also not responsible for paying his company's private money in Austria, which was confirmed by the Austrian financial supervisory authorities. And that's exactly the problem when the DORH is investigating something then in principle it's not about research but about hiding evidence, we could see that in the case of Gabriela Žalac. The software whose value was estimated at 2.9 million kunas was paid 13 million kunas, so 10 million kunas are stolen at work worth 3 million kunas. And that DORH thief isn't controversial, the DORH concludes and says there's no crime at all. Then comes the European Prosecutor's Office who reacts as any reasonable person. Today we learn that the European Prosecutor's Office has indicted ten Croatian citizens for corruption, including SDP and HDZ Vinko Grgic and Drazen Barisic, who are charged with applying budget damages of more than 165 million kuna. If the DORH had investigated this, it would never have been completed, either as in the case of the Kaljac or in the case of Croatia Insurance, it would have concluded that everything is fine. Ladies and gentlemen, the DORH protects crime against the case of Uljannik, VP Krš-Pađene, Brodotrogira to Croatia insurance because in the case of Krš-Padena DORH it deals with 40,000 euros, and it is about billions that Croatian citizens will pay, and they would not have to pay. In Brodotrogir it is quite clear that it is a huge corruption that is very simple to investigate, the state was paying off subsidies and these subsidies were leaving someone. We need to determine where. But DORH is an example of the institution through which Croatia is choking these Croatian citizens from Croatia. Let's try to imagine what the United States would look like if in the case of Watergate then President Nixon under the pressure of the investigative bodies he wasn't forced to step down, the United States would certainly not be the leading economic force but would be an unstable swamp. And this is exactly the swamp that DORH creates without investigating corruption and investigating war crimes, and not even after 30 years, DORH has filed any charges against Serbian concentration camps as he has not filed any charges against JNA pilots. Indeed, a zero point in the change to be implemented in Croatia is the shift of the entire leadership of the DORH and not only the shift but also the processing of those in the DORH That hide corruption and powerlessness. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112491	Replica esteemed representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112492	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues Vidović Kristo, so you have often talked here about blocked justice, about the deep state, about examples of corruption that permeates our society just by presenting concrete examples, concrete names like you did today. I have no doubt that because of your openness you've had problems, but do you have any knowledge that just after your pronunciations of names and examples have been set in motion, do you have an example that some of the above institutions have done something of course within their powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112493	Thank you very much for the replica. Yes, my colleague Vukovac, the first thing that comes to mind, is the case of the Trade Court in Osijek, which I spoke about publicly, but it's not just me, so I'm from the Parliament's pay phone and through various other public statements, I'm warning about the same thing, I'd say eclative corruption and bargaining, in the end the president of the trade court was removed from that position. This example is evidence that something can be done through this public speech, however, in this case, it is not DSV or the competent institutions who have not adequately responded because there has been no adequate sanctioning. Our task is to warn and diagnose, and in the second step, introduce order into the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112494	Next replica, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112495	Comrade Kristo, you've listed numerous examples of corruption, and here we have fresh corruption where the PPD is. PPD owners from Josip Jurčević and all those who owned the land were state-owned at a one shameless price low 30 times cheaper in the Makarska coast i.e. in Brela, so the damage has been done in billions of Republic of Croatia. I was saying it here and the media carried it a little bit, so it's similar to the Misetic dynasty that governs operators so that telecommunications is in favour and is won by the largest foreign teleoperators at the expense of our citizens. You cited the example of Brodotrogir, Uljanika and Skver Splitski where two billion kunas got Fatty who did not purposely spend and it is clear that he spent, who knows where that money is, we can list countless examples, but is one single fact that only, the DORH has become a clean political body and the biggest problem of the Republic is this political body, and this is the judiciary complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112496	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112497	Thank you, colleague Bulj, I agree with you, we could count it out indefinitely. Adequate sanctioning and changes in a wider scale cannot come from the simple reason why we have here a clear range of political power, justice and media that are largely corrupt and under the control of the ruling political summit. You've listed the PPD, that case is one of the more eclectic, we have information that this company is within 10 years. It has grown from 50 million kunas to 20 billion, and that it is all clean and that the jobs are clean, of course not, and we also have information from our international partners that testify that our Prime Minister is openly lobbying for the company. This is very problematic, and this should be spoken publicly until finally what we say is done and that is the regulation of the state and sanctioning of all these perpetrators who are working on the damage of Croatian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112498	Next is the individual debate of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is Mira Bulj's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112499	Our colleagues and colleagues, we can, we can talk for days about DOV, we can talk about, about the judgment council, but the fact is that the Croatian state is so networked. Here I mentioned the teleoperators a moment ago, essentially the Misetic dynasty that directly has an impact on Andrej Plenkovic so that the damage he causes is huge, not only by his decisions and guessing teleoperators, it's about billions as far as the right path is concerned, trying to reduce both the many other things and the biggest profits have teleoperators. I stand behind this and repeat, here I am publicly saying that the greatest influence for the biggest winners in the EU as far as Deutsche Telekom's telecommunications activities are concerned, and I will repeat that as long as I am alive and even as Mayor of Sinja, I will sue because it is against the law when teleopers or Deutsche Telekom who illegally signed our network that our people gave and who paid for our parents and local self-government and that's corruption and what we're talking about state lawyers about, what we're talking about, and billions of people are in the pocket of teleopers, and we don't have kindergarten. I think I'm going to enroll all the kids as mayor of kindergarten, of course it's an eternal battle, mostly in undeveloped areas, and now our tiles are downgraded right by the biggest winner. It's the same thing in my neighborhood I can say about traffic, like buses. Mate Junovic became the owner of the Car Transport Sinj, without fulfilling any obligations he became and the station in Split became so, I think, without any obligations he had failed to fulfil under the Consolidation and Restructuring Treaty of the company Auto Transport, destroyed everything to destroy, destroyed public transport and care whom I personally filed countless criminal charges and I was tried, sued, brought into countless of these things, can list them in my territory only a Chettish end. So the biggest problem currently in the Republic of Croatia is to mistrust the judiciary and repeat it. The key problem of Croatia is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary and that is the cause and the key of the problem, that is the key to the problem, and how this is solved, obviously we do not have a good will and obviously we as the people's representatives elected to this assembly, in this representative body we do not have the highest level for this force. The Constitutional Court is also corrupt, making decisions as the ruling party tells him, it's a terrible message, here I see a constitutional referendum no matter how much I agree with the question or disagree, he had to go to the people's vote. He did not go, to the people to tell their people about or against it does not matter, but it is the usurpation of the right of the people from which the government originates, from which it comes as representatives of the people or the president of the Republic who is directly elected, and from us it comes to mean as national representatives of the government. So the government's supposed to be responding to the assembly, and we've got all this weird stuff in us. We choose the head of state in a way that we choose him directly, and basically we are parliamentary democracy, basically nothing is known here anymore. There was some kind of cycle here, so there was a mistrust in the judiciary. So what are we? We are parliamentary democracy or we are, we are legally let someone now determine what we are, is parliamentary democracy or are we presidential. If we choose the president directly, then we should be Presidential, at least I think so. It's Parliament's choice of government. I don't know, it's some hybrid, I don't know what hybrid it is, who invented it, and why it's so made up, but the fact is that we see what it comes to when it comes to making important, key views so that it's still going to get hurt in this cabbage of everything. So in the cabbage of everything, we got some Bosnian pot, everything. It was also mentioned earlier, and the indictment announced that it would raise Chetnik Vukic towards our pilots. We do absolutely nothing about Serb war crimes. For what? Is it likely that Milorad Pupovac writes to you exactly how you're going to implement a whole policy and you have to agree to it and that's the case. That's right, but fairer would be choices than working that way. So once again the State's Attorney's Council of DC and the Fate Council are essentially minor here, it's all essentially a parapolitical body that calls and... or arrest or release someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112500	Replica esteemed Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112501	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, here you are courageously standing up to protect the interests of our municipalities and cities, or all units of local and regional self-government that are available to the infrastructure actually built by our parents and which is left to one strange decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Deutsche Telekom. Unfortunately, on this committee we worked on a few days ago, representatives and ministries, ministries and representatives of HACOM sounded like the paid representatives of Deutsche Telekom and Tcom themselves. Do you think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are following this and that, of course, based on such discussions and such knowledge, they must doubt the work of our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112502	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112503	Thank you very much. So that HACOM's regulatory body is essentially Deutsche Telekom's lawyer office, which works exclusively in the interests of Deutsche Telekom, and not as a regulatory body in the Republic of Croatia and was seen from that exhibition and representative, the Secretary of State of Transport was also on the side of teleoperators. And I repeat once again that the infrastructure that was built and illegally entered in Deutsche Telekom that they were owners, according to the '86 law. which did not change telecommunications is our infrastructure, when the HPT, when it was separated only then could under the law be owned by units of local self-government or those whose ownership is land. And they have entered a complete infrastructure on themselves plus now the new law wants any... an example of agglomeration when buried and if the cable is cut that the local self-government unit has to fix it, not that they fix it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're just an exploitation field to them, thanks to Misetic Dynasty. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112504	Vesna Nadj is a respected representative of the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you are as a Croatian defender when you came back from the battlefield and met with savage privatisation, so now this corruption and then it's a little frustrating, not a little bit but rather frustrating for Croatian defenders and is it not time for all of this to be resettled, to bring to power one, one option that will really be dealt with with with by corruption or to extract corruption from this country with roots, not just a haircut.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112506	Thank you very much. I remember, the Dalmatian end-of-the-line factory in Sinj, for months... It was 3,000 people employed and was very important for the development of the entire Cetina region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Literally my chatter worked there, all the people worked, mostly the female labour force was then mainly and essentially urbanized all together and went through this process, and it was incomprehensible to me when one of my relatives came when she said that Jon didn't pay 5-6 months, that terror and then I started protesting with these people and I ran those protests then and I was still an active officer because it was incomprehensible for me that people, women who work and earn their wages had no money for a marenda, had no travel expenses, had no opportunity to give to their children and it wasn't clear to me at all what it was about, after the war. It was only then that I realized that they sold out everything in the Homeland War, when there was a war, when people were killed, bleeding for this country, they sold out everything, and they left those people on the road that they left behind in those factories. And that's the saddest thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112507	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked my colleague Bulj if we had a parliamentary system or a presidential one. I often hear that question from our citizens and perhaps some clarification. We are therefore a parliamentary system where the government is politically responding to parliament, where Parliament is elected then it is a parliamentary system. Even the semi-presidential system is a parliamentary system only one special sub-species. So, and what we had until 2000 or what France today has semi-presidential but still parliamentary, presidential or purely presidential to be clear has the United States, for example, where the Head of State is also Prime Minister, so they are not two separate functions and it does not correspond politically to this House or Congress. Here's a little clarification, but I thought it was important for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112509	Thank you very much. The state is determined, a system managed by the head of state's election. We are not chosen by the head of state of Parliament as President of the Republic, but rather by the will of the people. It has the highest legitimacy of the one chosen by the will of the people, which is the President of the Republic. And the government... Parliament and it corresponds to Parliament, you're right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The monarchy, how to mark the monarchy if, of course, the king or queen is hereditary. So at this point, we have one piece of meat, a Bosnian pot, one bullet designed to target, so I'm not going to say this hard cohabitation, but we do have, see what we have in the state that someone who has too much legitimacy is electoral, and that's the President of the Republic is in conflict with those chosen from this Parliament. So an unsettled system is very welcome this way for this corruption and all this together regarding both the DSV and the Judicial Council, because people That's what they're watching. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112510	The next replica of the esteemed Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112511	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear and dear colleague Bulj. You stated that our system of Bosnian pot, I would say, and that this debate of yours is a bit of a Bosnian pot, you touched everything. But now I'm just gonna look back on this last thing you said. With some of the things you've said, you've looked back and those aren't part of what we're discussing today, and I can agree. But what you last said was that DORH and DSV and DORH that it was all a parapolitical institution they couldn't agree on. In this way you have offended, insulted all the hardworking people in the system, all the young people who are having difficulty in completing legal studies, that they are later perfected and that they continue to conduct all these duties through progress. I remind you that according to the Law on the Constitution and the judges and the deputies of the state's attorneys are independent in deciding, that everyone in their case makes their own decision. This is how generalizing really offends all these people that I think is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112512	I don't know, you, when you're running for parliamentary representative, you're sorry to know what the role of a parliamentary representative is that everything he knows without hair on his tongue must be presented, and you know best the biggest problem of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's what Zdravko Mamić proved to you, the head of the criminal organisation HNS Croatian Football Federation has proved to you. I can tell you lower levels on examples. So the man who escaped from the state on charges of certain crimes has proved that the judiciary is corrupt, that the system is underrespecting a number of people who are probably doing their job with honor. But those in this system can't be highlighted. Believe me, those who work honorably and work honestly can't be distinguished. This is a purely political pair of bodies, respecting all the exceptions that are within that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112513	There's a final debate coming up. It is the first club of HDZ MPs respected representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112514	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, and here we have already been told several times, so we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council and on the State-Law Council. Of course, that is all, changes and additions in the first reading, and I think the competent ministry will also use all this debate that has been conducted both in front of this tide and on the relevant committees. I think she was, because I'm a member of at least one of these committees quite openly. However, some of the ideas carried out there do not seem appropriate to the present moment, as it is known and can also testify as a witness to this judicial system itself that some of the things that are now being proposed and want to introduce in some of the money or novelties are not certainly on the trail of democratic change, i.e. the justice system that the Croatian judiciary knows, i.e. the Western European legal profession. In particular, I counted in these two legislative proposals in question a total of 37 amendments are proposed without talking here about some amendments concerning the reduction of a particular article and so on. So this means in particular 28 in the Law on the State Judicial Council and 19 in the Law on the State Attorney's Council. This means that when you take into account everything, the number of articles that are in place changes and all proposed changes should also be seen through the prism of the whole meaning of amending and supplementing the law of the entire judicial system, I also remind you of the Law on the litigation, commercial, bankruptcy and any other solutions that will surely go into the fact that the judicial system is as effective as possible. A lot of this has been said fascinatingly about security changes, meaning the numbers and points that are given to us on the basis of discretionary assessments by the relevant council and the Fatal Council and the State Attorney's Council. I recall all these changes concern mainly the judges of trainees who decided to maintain and fight in that body and achieve their career and internship as a lawyer and through working in court. I can admit that there may be a certain lack of interaction between all stakeholders in the judiciary. I mean here primarily from the professors of law school, then the lawyers and the public records, all the other stakeholders in the proceedings. However, I think it should be pointed out that exactly when it comes to the points and discretional assessment of any candidate for one of these judicial functions who can assess better than that body that has been accompanied by the whole work and the development of the candidate himself for the office of judge since the very beginning of the judicial traineeship. I have to admit, I have a lot of colleagues and colleagues who do this job. I know they carry jobs at home, they write judgments and in part-time on the financial and technical conditions on which they work can be discussed, but here, unfortunately, throughout the debate, it is said that we are talking about a judicial profession that is, or puts them in a negative context. The fascinating ease of giving certain epithets to all these judges, and they forget that we have over a million cases that have been solved and whenever any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are trapped, regardless of the system that wants to stick to the judicial system, achieves their own and addresses one such respected institution and tries to solve their problem through the judicial system and through the work of the judge himself. Finally, it is, of course, the first reading of both legislative proposals, some of the comments highlighted during the debate will be included in the second reading, and finally, for both legislative proposals, it is certain that the HDZ Club will accept the proposed text in the text as proposed in this content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112515	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Respected Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112516	The key problem of mistrust in DSV, DORH, the Judicial Council, is the political listeners who have been exclusively doing what has been directed against them from Brussels or from another central body for decades. I would only briefly say what the people are looking at through the prism of the judiciary most painfully. A colleague... just before the Homeland War, after the Homeland War, the main goal was to enter the EU without any price, then it was to arrest, locate, transfer, and then it was being persecuted by General Norac, so the persecution of Gotovina, Markac, had no idea, many died and in prisons so that a great frustration was created at the very beginning, so there was no price not to persecute these people and that for many years it waited to free some international institutions from Croatian generals or Croatia in these honorable operations, so it happened in the case of General Gotovina. So these frustrations and those statements of political strong key people of these Shex's words were ringing in the ears, mainly those people and generations who participated in the Homeland War, and that was the entire people of Croatia was involved in any form and so it began to... suspect the Croatian judiciary immediately. And later, when looked through the privatisation of certain destruction of certain companies, this even greater frustration of the people, the working class was struck by an even greater blow, and mostly by the family of those companies that were missing, they were literally gone, and that solidarity had disappeared according to, for example, if the Auto Transport Sinj had failed, the Dalmatian girl had not helped either solidarity or strike, so that some kind of corrupt octopus had lost confidence because of it. And now how do you get it back? Again, and only by listening not only because you can't be just a listener, you have to keep certain things you have in your judiciary, but it's so much mistrust that I always say five things in Croatia that are the biggest, people who have the most trust that's the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. Is this the cause of the DOV, the lawyer's or the judge's I have no idea, he gave the judiciary, the attorney's office I can't get into the analysis now, but the fact that all the experts whether those lawyers will say it or not, everyone will say it's the biggest mistrust in the judiciary. Slowness, unequal practice, political pressures and many other things that we can all influence, all of which we can influence. Now here's a colleague he's in Glavas' party, I remember when Shakespeare is haunted, and now together again are best friends, when the Glassava was persecuted then down for war crimes then General Glavas asked to defend himself from freedom. And I remember Drmic calling me that no one would buy signatures for him, then I was in Sinj to defend myself from freedom. I bought the only signatures at the time in Dalmatia, then sent by the women of the Homeland War I remember somewhere they surrendered then to the great opponent of Branimir Glavas who was not allowed to defend himself as a defender to defend himself from freedom... I remember that time, and all these things are now consequent, and now that they're hugging the Glasgow and the Shakespeare fellow that his nickname is then it's obvious that this mistrust is coming back to people. I know that for days then I've bought signatures for Glavas with my colleagues and we've well collected signatures, so we remember a statement in that process let's say detudgemanization, but not SDP detudgemanization, but HDZ's detudgement from Tudjman, then shouldn't be a picture. Let's just say I know when it was in Sinj no one should have laid a crown on Tudjman's memorial. I was laying, what, I wasn't a member of the party I took to the first president in the square he was. So this was happening at the time of Sanader, the Sanaderism which is essentially still His call is here and [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112517	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112518	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to point out once again in the final presentation the importance of opening these two highlights the importance of opening the work of these two councils to the public in the part in which it is prescribed that their work is public. This should include recording sessions and the availability of sessions of the part which is open. The place of the meeting not to be at the Ministry of Justice but in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, better, a better way of explaining the ranking for at least that part of the judicial advisors and others who report for a public invitation to appoint the lowest, to the lowest courts to try therefore by one major procedure in the law to define a single ranking list by points for a particular calendar year and based on that and order of priorities to make appointments. That would be 3 things that are relatively easy to do that neither require material, nor other resources, and would significantly raise the transparency and trust of citizens in these two important institutions that are very often under the radar, under the radar of the public except in those so-called. I don't know, when it might be too late. I have to say that without a googling, you wouldn't even know who the president of the State's Attorney's Council is, and if I wasn't a member of the DSV, you probably wouldn't even know who the president of the DSV is. It is therefore constitutional, constitutional bodies, constitutional categories with a very important function and in fact the beginning of what can kill good and bad things in the Croatian judiciary. As far as the judiciary is concerned that the procedure, as a rule, takes part in two sides and that decision will one always be dissatisfied, it is at the beginning of 50% of those who are dissatisfied, but it is also better than having 70% who are dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112519	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the amendment. Session adjourned at 5:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112523	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, we are now going to a united debate on the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 279 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. Number 280 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Before the proposer's representative gives me an additional explanation that there is a request for a break, a respected representative of the Vesna Nadj on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives for 10 minutes in order to point out once again the inadmissible ease that the government sends to a parliamentary debate, a debate on the proposals of the law in the field of justice that will not contribute to its normative decisions, to the final state's attorneyship and courts being independent of the executive authority, to adequately punish the unemployed and the misdemeanors in the judiciary, and all those worthy judges and state lawyers who are committed and professionally doing their job to be adequately rewarded and to be given every possible conditions for normal work. It is time for Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to be made clear about media reports on government pressures on the DORH in connection with indictments against officials in the government of the Republic of Croatia. If the DORH is indeed an independent and independent judicial body, then the main state attorney must not inform the Prime Minister of any action conducted against government officials, no matter how much its mandate depends on the votes of the ruling majority and the public must convince that no pressure in this regard can affect the work of the DORH. From his living, living mud that the DORH sinks along with the attorney general is only the transparency and legality of the rescue treatment, not this normative holy guide offered by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112525	Thank you, of course the break will be approved and in accordance with 293b. we will continue to work and now, on behalf of the promoter, the additional explanation will be given by the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112526	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs before you are the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council which seek to ensure more effective work of both councils, improve the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials and increase their responsibilities and transparency in the work. In order to disbursement both councils, it shall be left with the obligation to keep an eye on judges or state officials as well as to provide technical support to the work of the committee for the selection of members of the Council acting at the Supreme Court or the State Attorney's Office. From now on, administrative support in the work of the commission will be provided by those bodies. The planning process, filling of the court seats, is reduced from 2 years to 1 year in order to determine the needs of completion more realistically. For the sake of greater transparency and public availability, these draft laws also prescribe the obligation to publish a plan of free judicial and replacement posts and to amend and publish them on the website of the Ministry and of the Council. In the proceedings of the appointment of judicial officials to the first-degree judicial authorities, the provisions of these laws are aligned with the proposed amendments to the law of the Judicial Academy or to the work of the School of State for Labour, for judicial officials. Therefore, the entry into the judicial officer for candidates who are registered at the time when they are registered will be evaluated differently. The provisions on the institution of designation and relocation shall then be developed. More precisely, they regulate the conditions for the appointment of persons in courts and the state's attorney's office in the first degree, and only in the order of those who do not already exercise judicial duty. The Institute of Transfers shall be further regulated in such a way that only a judicial officer who performs that duty for at least 3 years can be transferred to another judicial body of the same degree. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedure of permanent relocation, specific procedures consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duty or of assessing the behaviour of the state's attorney's office and the talks before the council shall also be prescribed. The appointment procedure of officials to senior judicial authorities shall be governed by the way in which the appointment is made possible by persons who have previously exercised judicial duties, however, with a special written examination of the knowledge. In addition, the procedures for the appointment of judicial officials are regulated. It is prescribed that the councils do not have an obligation to call on candidates who, even with the highest possible number of points in the interview, cannot be appointed to office. It leaves a limit to the council that they do not call candidates who, through the assessment of their duties, achieve less than 130 points. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the councils is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. Amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council in the catalogue of staging works shall be introduced. That's not agreeing to conduct a security check. Thereafter, the phasing out of duty is redefined in such a way that the obligation to meet the framework criteria is increased to 100%, and now the framework criteria were considered to have been met when the judge reached 80%. In addition, an act of limitations due to the failure to take action in a procedure without justifiable reason is clearly determined as a stupendous act of disorderly conduct of duty. When it comes to the procedures for the appointment of a deputy chief of state lawyer in the order of candidates who are not acting in a judicial capacity, an element of written verification of knowledge shall be introduced. This will be more objectively evaluated by the candidates. The proposed amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Council, introduces a number of different fines in the strict proceedings against the deputy state attorneys and introduces the possibility of a conditional conviction and its denunciation. It is prescribed that failure to give consent to carry out a security check is the basis for the discharge of the duties of the Deputy State Attorney at the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The procedure to determine the circumstances of the termination of office and the resolution of the State's attorney is also further regulated in order to remove the ambiguity. The plan to fill out the vacancy of deputy state attorneys and their changes will be published on the DOV and Ministry of Justice and Administration pages. We believe that DOV and DSV are important bodies that decide on the appointment and resolution of judicial officials. The legal changes that are here before you will further increase the quality of the work of these councils and ensure better quality mechanisms to ensure that the judicial system is more efficient, more quality and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112527	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112528	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, first commendation that you are here with us for the debate on these two bill proposals, whether they are technical or not, we are changing something more. I am interested in the reports and the DORH, but also in the debate about and for the Supreme Court, we often mention statistics on ourselves, the years of employees in the judicial system, and this can often be defeated over 60 years, they mostly mention any problem of staffing the introduction of new lawyers into the system to be transferred to the ministry as chief financier of the judicial system. You're a professor yourself at law school, so I'm wondering if it's time to rejuvenate the staff and introduce new young lawyers into the system is this simply now unsustainable, we won't have anyone to leave our judiciary to, and if we're such closed new law students, they won't even be able to think about hiring in our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112529	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112530	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So these two laws, so the DSV Act and the DOV Act, are actually part of a package that also includes the Law on the Judicial Academy and the Law on trainees in judicial bodies because, in fact, by changing this package, we change the concept of appointment, appointment of judicial officials. Of course, therefore, we have seen certain shortcomings in the current system of appointments of officials, but also in the advancements of the officials themselves. I can point out that last year and we have opened a tender and implemented a competition for trainees in judicial bodies, and we believe that this path through training and further progress is the right way to get new officials in judicial bodies and we will do so in the next period. So only through the amendments to this package of laws are we going in this direction to make and the process of appointment, but also to the progress of judicial officials as transparent and accessible as possible to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112531	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112532	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, these amendments and additions to the DOV Act are, in principle, in line with the provisions of the Law on State Attorneys, which we have recently adopted, mainly in this section for Deputy State Attorneys or Security Verification, so here is now one reason for a resolution if he would not give his consent to carry out this security check. Since there has been opposition, part of the opposition here is again an extended issue in some way the influence of the executive authority on the judicial officials I would ask you if you could just point out once more in fact how this security check will be carried out or actually there is no interference so there has been any executive authority or government on exactly these proceedings and on the judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112533	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112534	Thank you very much for asking. So as I pointed out, when we were amending the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, there was no influence either influencing the executive authorities nor in the appointment of either judges or state attorneys. When we talk about security checks, then we clearly communicated that the security checks were carried out by SOA, which produced a certain report on the security check, that report provided to the Supreme Court and the Attorney General and then the commission, which consisted of 3 or 5 judges or state lawyers, is considering whether there are certain risks in that report that prevent the objectivity, independence and transparency of the work of a judge or a state attorney, and then decide whether there are elements for the launch of a tight procedure and, if there are so far, that commission can initiate a tight procedure in front of DSV and DOV, so we have no policy influence, we have SOA, an institution that we believe and that so far does security checks for judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112535	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112536	Thank you very much, Your Honor. After a series of laws relating to the digitisation of the judiciary, then a series of laws relating to criminal or civil law spheres, here are today two amendments and amendments to the laws relating to both the state's attorney and the judicial authority, and so on, we continue to measure further what you have said and measured through the National Plan of Resistance and recovery related to judicial reform and through this part of today's changes, one question in some way raised in the media above others, and this is related to the extension of the catalogue of the narrow parts of judges, or that the cumbersome work relating to the fulfilment of the standard of duty will increase from 80% to 100%, so can you explain what this specifically means in the case of judges' work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112537	Thank you. The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112538	Thank you very much. Well, everyone's mouth is full of effective and effective justice. In fact, through frames and so on. The norm prescribed for judicial officials or if we are to specify for judges when we talk about a judicial duty is therefore precisely determined how much activity the judge must take in a given year to meet that standard, so far it has been prescribed that the fulfilment must be fulfilled, that the norm is considered to be fulfilled if 80% of the norm is met. I must point out that at the beginning of this year and we've changed the framework standards, we've raised a judge's norm, we haven't done it like this overnight, but we've carried out a certain analysis and we've determined that there's a space to increase the efficiency of the judges' work, and that it doesn't affect the quality of their work, and now we've actually prescribed through these tensile acts that the norm is considered to be fulfilled if 100% of the norms are met. I believe that this will increase the efficiency of the work of the courts and that quality will also be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112539	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112540	The other day, Andrej Plenkovic publicly boasted that he called the chief state attorney Hrvoje-Šipek, and suggested that she be instructed to do what she should do. Yesterday, however, the Nationalal weekly announces that the state's chief attorney regularly visits the government's president and reports him on criminal cases of his interest. This is an open violation of the constitution and the law by the main state's attorney and prime minister. The direct consequence is corruption, and it is the main cause of poverty for Croatian citizens. I think it's enough to mention only Minister Zhaoac and her 4-fold payment of software. Tell me, Mr. Minister, what are you doing to prevent the state's chief attorney and the Prime Minister from breaking the constitution and the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112541	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112542	Thank you very much. So the Prime Minister, neither the Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister, nor the Attorney General, violates neither the constitution nor the law and has no pressure nor the influence of the Prime Minister or of any other member of the executive government on the work of the State's attorney, nor on the work of the attorney general, or on the work of a single state attorney. So I am 100% convinced and convinced that the state's attorney's office is working independently and that no one interferes with their work, and we see that with these amendments to the State's Attorney's Office, DOV, DSV, where certain procedures have been established where there is no influence from the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112543	Dear Representative Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112544	Art. 238, this is not just an insult to the representatives and the Croatian public, this is an insult to common sense. The man cannot trust his ears as you say, you are the minister of this government and you are saying that you believe that he has no influence on the judiciary, and the Prime Minister is openly boasting that he calls it, that he calls it the chief state attorney, that he is giving instructions and that he is visited and regularly reporting on criminal cases, so who here is crazy, until you think about protecting corruption and crime at the expense of Croatian citizens, you will answer for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112545	Dear MPs Vidovic Kristo, this was a replica, so I'm giving you a warning. Honorable representative Oreshković has, and the first respected representative of Grmoja is probably asking for a break if I am well... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112546	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, and we can't discuss any laws at all when we have a situation where the Prime Minister admits he's calling the State's Attorney General and actually assures her that there's no need to pursue persecution against one of his ministers. We also have information that says that at the monthly level, a state attorney informs the government's president of investigations against government officials and in fact any law that we bring here in the assembly will not solve a key Croatian problem, and that is the dependence of the institutions on this government, the fact that Plenkovic's corruptive click puts its hands on all the important institutions in this country and simply there is no speech about how to deal with corruption as long as that is the case. We urgently need to move this corrupt click from power and give full freedom and independence to our institutions, and when this happens to many who sit in this government, many who sit here in this assembly will be struck by these independent institutions. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to discuss whether or not it is necessary to discuss any legal changes while we have this state of emergency in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112547	Of course the break will be approved. Stanku asked on behalf of the HDZ Club and respected representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112548	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again that this ruling majority is seriously seeking to deal with corruption in society, and that is also evident through all the amendments to the laws that we have done so far, especially in the judicial portfolio. These two amendments to the laws that are currently on the agenda, which are the amendment and addition of the Law on VAT and DSV as independent and independent judicial bodies, also speak, the content of these amendments also speaks in favour of the increased transparency of the work of these bodies and their independence. We reject all these corruption charges and also the co-operation between the executive and the judicial authority in the way it is imputed here because it is primarily unwarranted and unsuspecting, the individual and the Prime Minister are muddy and the executive authority in general unfounded. Here we are constantly talking about the perception of the situation in the judiciary, and all of us who are involved in the work of the institutions of the state do not contribute to this perception being different. When we look at the report and the work of the state attorney's office and the work of the judicial authority that comes here before HS, we can see that the indicators of the work of these institutions are not exactly so that we can talk about the absolute ineffectiveness of the judiciary. I think we all have to be if we want to change the perception that we need to be realistic first of all and talk about really those real problems and the way we solve them, and not just shoot out the estimates and assessments of corruption like this, about who makes them, and we also act differently... according to certain factors in society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112549	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Grumo has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112550	He's been injured. 238, a colleague says this was a flat-rate charge, no. Your government's ministers are being hit by these institutions when it's impossible to protect you. If the institutions were independent long ago, you would have answered many of you sooner, so it's not about the flat-rate charges but about the facts, and the prime minister himself admitted calling the state's attorney general. It's his confession and he himself admitted that he did something that was illegal in democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112551	Comrade Grumo, this is a replica, not this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised and respected by representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112552	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it offends here by making the truths, so that we are not, that the institutions are not independent then we would not carry out certain proceedings against these same ministers, so no one is protected, and whenever I speak and speak to those speakers there, I said that we are all subject to the same laws and we are all available for what we do to answer and we need to answer in the same way, and you are here, and you are here, and you are condemning those without, without any factual evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112553	Thank you and it was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Habib also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112554	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Grumoja apparently forgets that his mentor from Pantovica publicly admitted that it was normal while he was Prime Minister that he knew about all the tests and investigations being conducted, so he directly said, so you had no such attitudes, you had some different criteria than you now have, and you should know that since you often deal with the judiciary and you're an expert in the judiciary that executive and chief state attorneys cooperated on matters of arbitration, in matters of state representation before certain proceedings, but unfortunately you forget, it doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112555	A fellow Habiban and it was a replica, so you get a warning. Honorable representative Zekanovic has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has he been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112556	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, I'm not actually in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to ask if any of the state's attorneys have a number I'd like to call as well, perhaps a colleague of the Grmoya has, so let me see...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112557	You can't do this to my colleague, Zekanovic. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112558	I can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112559	You've gone a little too far, no, no, of course you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112560	All right, I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112561	Of course you can't. Let's get serious, let's get serious. Stanko was asked on behalf of the club by a respected representative, Željko Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112562	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we believe that it is appropriate today to request an item, a pause because before us, the minister of justice is the most responsible person who defends certain laws on DOV and DSV, while at the same time we do not consider that he has taken sufficient effective measures to protect us from legal shagging and peaceful aggression of the Republic of Serbia, which is raising legally chicant charges against our Croatian giants, Croatian defenders on the basis of the absence and disputed international universal jurisdiction of the so-called. As a minister, you and as a member of an inter-resor group should have done everything to prevent this from happening, and in fact, to bring the Republic of Serbia into order to face your bloody wartime history and to first do everything to bring back war damage to the Croatian people, to resolve the borders with Croatia, to solve the case of the missing, archives and all that to prosecute all criminals who have committed evil in the area of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112563	Of course the break will be approved with that we will comply. 293.b. continue to work, so the replica will now have a respected representative, Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112564	Thank you. Minister, I don't have a question for you, I'm actually talking about the opposition that God has at the moment more than usual when we're discussing judicial laws. So the fact is that HDZ has its paws on all institutions, but a colleague of Grmoya is not enough to shift HDZ from power, we will do so, but it has happened twice in history, so for Croatia there has been no long-term improvement, and if we want something better here is what we should do. First, change the constitution, a provision that says the attorney general has a term of office at the age of 4. which can be extended, once we do it in a way that has one unique term, for example, from 8 g. Without the possibility of an extension, he'll be able to be more independent, so we won't ask if the prime minister's phone calls him not to get arrested and to touch his ministers. Secondly, DSV and DOV should be restructured, there has nothing to ask for parliamentary representatives, and those working in those bodies should do the job professionally in permanent working time, not on quotas. And the third thing, to establish a system of control of property cards, not to give us reports that it will be carried out when conditions are obtained and thus until the day of judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112565	Thank you very much, thank you very much, I don't know. It wasn't a question, but... The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112566	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, in this amendment, it is prescribed that the council will not necessarily have to call for the interview of all candidates, especially when they, with a maximum number of points in the interview, could not be able to be elected, I believe that this will certainly affect the effectiveness of the Council's work. However, in order to avoid confusion and some non-transparentity, or to avoid confusion, I think that the results and the total number of points of all candidates should be published. I think it's from art. In 56, it turns out that the final list will only be published for those who participate in the talks is so constructed that the total number of points will also be based on the discussions, so please think about it and see what's best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112567	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112568	Thank you very much. Well, here's your point, we will consider your proposal between two readings, but indeed this proposal to amend the DSV Act and the DOV Law contains good things, things that will increase transparency, in particular, the appointment of judicial officials, so we have extended these criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, so so far they were only points from the State School for judicial officials, or from that final exam, and now they will take into account the quality of their work, so in accordance with the rules that will be passed by the Ministry of Justice, and the DSV and DOV will need to explain the decisions they make on the appointment of individual candidates for judicial officials, so I am convinced that we will have one more quality and transparent system of choice of judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112569	The Republic has a respected representative, Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112570	Dear Minister, here I have seen this one innovation you put in Art. 56.a. which you say in one sentence that for the deputy state attorneys, it would be necessary and that the future will be conducted before the appointment of psychological testing. Now I'm interested in when you came up with that idea, why and whether this psychological testing is limited only to the lowest category of deputy state attorneys or I see in other parts you haven't touched on the level of county state department, high, etc., the main state attorney's office, how you think it will echo, work, what it means are they all already in a working legal relationship, whether in the meantime, what happens now is that I, otherwise, support every control system for psychophysical health control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112571	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112572	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, therefore, psychological testing already exists in the election for members of the state court or not for members, but in the election of judges at DSV and DOV, so we have only developed further these provisions of the DoV and DSV Act, so we have, what I mentioned earlier, we will now have more criteria for the appointment of judicial officials, so so so far we have only the number of points that judicial officials or candidates have won in the final exam at the state school, and now they will take into account their work done, so that we will have a more transparent and clear system and I believe that this will result in more quality candidates who will be elected as judicial officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112573	Honorable representative Nadj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I don't understand your tenacity by actually pushing this new stupendous act of dissent to conduct a security check with judges every five years. Since you have been warned by the President of the Supreme Court and in the e-consultation, this Association of Croatian Judges and the European Association of Judges held that it does not comply with European standards. What's actually the reason when we can solve it through property cards, actually, is the same effect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112575	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112576	Thank you very much. So the property or security checks existed before the recent amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, they were reserved for only one narrow circle of judicial officials, in particular by judges appointed for the first time by the State's attorneys to the Supreme Court, while in the State's attorneys they were deputies of the meanings of the Director of USKOK and the Deputy Director of USKOK, so we have now extended it and introduced periodic security checks, the main criticism was the mixing of the executive authority to the judicial, judicial, judicial, therefore there is no influence there, nor the contact of the executive authorities with the appointment and resolution of the judicial officials themselves, so the SOA makes a report, this report is accessible to the judicial authorities, so the state attorneys and the rule of law can be brought to judgments, that you are not guilty of law and you are not guilty of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112577	Thank you. The replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112578	Your Honor, you are not a respected vice president, but just one small progression regardless of this, feel free to take my time. There's glass all over the floor, his colleagues are in summer shoes, someone's gonna cut themselves, and there's this big boring fly, and here he is, jumping around for the minister, distracting him, if there's a way to get rid of both of them so we can work easier. So, I asked the number of state attorneys, I would also call her a question that I would ask her, respected state attorneys, this is my colleague Grumoja and you are directed, do your job more, President Milanovic accused me of crime, me and President Plenkovic of having him carry the money in my bag or let him start the trial against us, let him interrogate President Milanovic about what he knows and if he lied let him put him in the asylum, let the man say he's crazy, the man is unserious. A brief question, a comment on the former state attorney Jelenic who was, who was former, so the former we know why, what was the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112579	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112580	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, therefore, as I replied to the MPs of Karolina Vidovic Kristo that there was no influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority, so the judiciary and the judicial authorities remain independent and impartial, so they are working without any pressure from the executive authority, and also without any pressure and influence from the Prime Minister on the work of the chief state attorney or state attorney in certain cases. There are certain points of contact such as arbitration, representation of the interest of the real estate requirements of the Republic of Croatia, so there is a need for cooperation between the executive authority and the state attorney's office, but this cooperation is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. What you asked the question of the former chief of state attorney, so the amendments to the DOV Act certainly redefine both the major acts and the procedure before the DOV itself as regards tight procedures, so I believe that these changes will remove the legal gaps that have so far been in the handling of the tight procedure before the DOV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112581	Thank you. The replica of the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112582	Thank you. Dear Minister, my question concerns these criteria for the work of judges who have been changed from 80 to 100%, I am interested in the concrete reasons why it is, and I'm wondering if this is the position of the ministry that has been put out in the e-consultation that has shown that 63% of judges have already reached an 80% level in September of compliance with the judicial obligation after which work dynamics has slowed down, does this ministry think that 63% of judges have been not doing their jobs enough for the past three months, and that is why this is the reason for the increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112583	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112584	Thank you very much. So, if we're talking about a system of framework criteria, so on. The norms therefore have a standard that has been established for the work of all judicial officials and, of course, the fulfilment of that standard are considered a 100% fulfillment, so not 80%, so far we have, so far the norm has been considered fulfilled when, when the judge has fulfilled only 80% of the norm. We have now increased this to 100%, so if the norm is already established in some amount, in the number of activities, the number of decisions, the judgments that judges make, then we believe that they should be met in a 100% amount, and not in an 80% amount, so it was preceded by certainly an analysis of the work of judges, through the system of e-scripts it can be clearly determined how many judges work, when they make certain decisions and, of course, it was the basis for us to make a decision to increase the framework criteria, and also to increase the fulfilment of the standard from 80 to 100%, and I believe that this will also result in an increase in the number of resolved cases at the annual level of Croatian courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112585	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we're going to take a short break of one 5 minutes, as the esteemed representative Zekanovic said this colleague accidentally broke the glass, so this one needs to clean up a little, and the fly problem is afraid I'm going to have a hard time solving. It's 3:03 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.04 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, so then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club will speak for the Honorable Representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112587	Thank you, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. This proposal amends and complements the Law on DOV and DSV carries certain changes in relation to the existing situation which should bring us closer certainly to a more independent and professional exercise of the difficult constitution of the prescribed tasks of our judicial officials. Certainly, that certain, certain intentions of yours, which they provide, which should have led to a level of expertise being raised and objectifying the verification of candidate's capacity for judicial duties, are welcome, however. We have these certain innovations, I have already said in the replica that last year was behind us, last year we talked about introducing this and the security checks of the judicial officials, then the property cards to be published, about which we had great controversy in the Croatian public, so here you can see the psychological tests that you are proposing. 56.a. complete. These psychological tests by themselves after this candidate has gone deep into the judicial system, carried out certain advisory duties, etc., a little bit of ringing in, in this chapter, this is essentially a test of intelligence or something like that, and now this, along with all objective parameters, man has done a test of knowledge, a state-level training in the judicial academy has passed, conducted a conversation with the state-run, state-owned council that we have raised, a greater possibility of assessing points from 15 to 20 now must now go except for the security check and to this intelligence test, okay, let's hope that we'll have luck and that we'll get to the smartest and best of these candidates that Croatian people deserve, the Croatian people, but then let's be consistent and spend it on all the other levels, let's not just at the lowest levels in that justice system stop. There may not have been a case of this main state attorney who was a member of a mass organization and practically no one responded to that until the Croatian public and we Croatian sovereigns pointed and shook and sought certain procedures. The epilogue, of course, isn't even close to the end yet. I can see the complaints are under way. It's all good, it's very objective, it enables our judicial officials to carry out their hard tasks, and especially DOV members, if we release them part of the daily presidents' jobs as much as 75% of what they have to do in everyday work in the state... and members 20%. In any case, we as Croatian sovereigns will give our voice, our hand to change it is better than nothing. What counterpart Oreshkovic said about the need for radical changes, we can certainly discuss, put that proposal on the table to extend the mandate to the state's chief state attorney, chief state attorney or chief state attorney, so that it is more independent, that it does not have to be anxious when called by the prime minister or prime minister or prime minister of government. Dal calls her to tell her here we'll give her 50, 100, 200 million kunas to improve the work of your state's attorneys or why you did or why you didn't press charges or conduct secret reconnaissances against my ministers. All in all as far as this part of the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, however, you have made a huge mistake, Mr. Secretary of State, in the part where you said that we can temporarily vacate from the duties of a state attorney if he, now, be careful of your dear friends, if he commits a criminal offence which, if committed against him, is a criminal offence or a criminal offence for which the prescribed sentence is longer than five years or is in custody of course. But watch out for five years, so you know what that means? So if the state's attorney is such a specter or he's being prosecuted for crimes of six for which he can end up in prison from six months to five years in a row. Why is it, in any case, that any of you can imagine in the assembly benches or in the police or in the judiciary that anyone can at all be in the capacity of a state's attorney, and that he has a burden on not a private suit, not a criminal act of traffic, but a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to five years of imprisonment can be prescribed? So change it can't be. Maximumly place a possible private lawsuit, slander, insult, traffic-delict, inequitable everything else is one state attorney so he must be clean as crystal, as a diamond as well as a cop, as well as a judge. No matter what tails, please nice, what tails for him on criminal justice, the offense is the problem. I'm not talking about that violent, domestic thing at all, but some offense, I don't know if he's drunk or something, it's a public matter. So, that's what it's all about. As far as the State Judiciary Council is concerned, we also don't have what they've advanced, and there I see that you judges have always been more agile and they've fought for their positions much earlier and much more elastic. I guess somehow they were further away from reaching the hands of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and in the media they were much better placed in the last 10, 15 years. Let's just think of Judge Mrcelle when, on behalf of the Association of Judges, he often appeared to himself, and they created a real space of untouchableness in terms of positive, not persuasive speech, and you put in them certain tenuous measures, made a distinction for milder tenuous measures, harder, but you also left the judge a problem that you would not touch him and will not suspend him if he commits a criminal offence for which in the criminal proceedings for which a sentence of five years of imprisonment and more could be imposed. I mean, it's simple, don't make those compromises, so no one can justify it. Change it, don't come to another reading because it won't go away and we'll be against it, so all reasonable people and the Croatian public can't imagine that he's being tried by a judge behind whom a criminal case for a crime is being prosecuted for up to five years in prison. We're running away from it, there's no need, it's even Mr. Bosnjakovic, as a minister, long ago, and not that you ministers have any business to do with it. Thank you very much.../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112588	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zlatko Hasanbegovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112589	Dear Minister, Secretary of State. As everyone knows, the general place in the public concept is the problem of non-functioning of the Croatian judiciary of all forms of judicial authority, which includes concepts such as legal uncertainty, law enforcement, arbitration, non-sanctionation of various criminal acts, judicial and state-level incompetence, corruption, clicks, coteries, similar to the notion of a powerful and executive verdict adopted within a reasonable period of time as mental nouns. What are the real achievements of the so-called. the reform procedures in the judicial system and the judicial authority carried out from 2000 to today in accordance with Croatia's legal surrender and needs, already with the Brussels and Venice experimental directives for the countries in the EU accession process, which have, of course, not been applied or applied in the so-called so-called the old members of the Union that we see as a permanent form. Namely, what is it? It is a fixation of the notion of independence and independence of the judicial authority, which in legislative practice turns into a travesty of its original meaning, which refers to independence and independence in the operation and decision of all three branches of government, the possibility of their mutual supervision, and not the conversion of any of these three authorities into a self-sufficient co-ordinate of its own choosing, assesses and resolves itself through the body of the deprived original constitutional imperative, demographic and national legitimacy, which makes up the main stone of the Croatian Constitution, which, in the case of the laws of choice and action, both DOV and DSV are denied. The constitutional imperative is found in the basic provisions of the Croatian Constitution. 1st century 2. which reads as "in the Republic of Croatia", so all three branches of government "become from the people and belong to the people as a community of free and equal citizens" and 3rd, which reads: "The people exercise power by the choice of their representatives and by direct decision". As the constitutional provisions on VAT say, as regards the DSV body which has been tasked with the appointment of deputy state attorneys, their resolution and the decision on tight responsibility. Who in this country has democratic national legitimacy in accordance with this fundamental constitutional provision? Therefore, the HS chosen by the people in the elections is the indirect government elected by the HS and by the President of the Republic directly from the people. On the other hand, the founder has set out the composition of the DOV which has 11 members, consisting of seven deputy state attorneys, two university professors of legal science and two parliamentary representatives of which is one of the lines of opposition. This means that of the three factors of the legislative executive authority with democratic people's legitimacy, two of the priorities are excluded from the influence on its composition, and one reduced to a mere décor through two parliamentary deputies who in no way can affect the quorum and decision-making of the representation... of the prized ficus and have the privilege of having the privilege of personally knowing candidates for judicial and state attorneys' duties which in everyday life could not be known except as potential perpetrators of criminal offences. The motive for this questionable and unscheduled provision, but still within the framework of the fundamental constitutional value on the national legitimacy of all branches of government, was to highlight the principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority, since the way in which members of these bodies were elected was left to the legislator who, in a later legislative solution, violated the constitutional imperative under the fundamental principles of constitutional law. 1. Namely, the number of representatives in the DOV as well as in the DSV would be irrelevant, including the solution that they are not members at all that the legislator has prescribed that all members are based on appropriate application procedures and that, through a qualified majority of choices, the HS we can, as well as its composition, think about what we want, but which is according to the constitutional article. 71. I quote "the representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority". This is also the answer to the question of a prominent Croatian Twitterian, of course with Mrs. Kosor, a legal expert whose money of political decisions with far-reaching fatal consequences was shot down by the constitutional administrative court of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic, who I am working in DOV. I am in that body with the decision of HS, not the lottery draw, or the discretionary decision of the state company Janaf d.d. on the selection of legal services without a direct contract with the method of social ties and kneeling and withdrawal of the sleeve. As such and as a decor member of that body with the legitimacy of a national representative without any real influence on the decision-making of the first hand, they may testify that any legislative novels of the Law on DOV and DSV, as well as the fleet on judicial reform, are unfounded unless it implies a radical change of constitutional provisions on their composition as well as legal provisions on the way their members are elected. The basic constitutional provision on the national representation of all the branches of the government is not and cannot be opposed to the principle of independence and independence of action, unless we want to transfer all the shortcomings of the legislative executive authority to the court and turn it into a single centre of power without the democratic legitimacy it chooses itself, and ultimately to which greater influence than the Croatian peoples have seminars of the Soroshes and other foundations of the invisible arm and of the foreign embassy. What do we have here today? The chamomile of a cosmetic novel, which does not even consider the key provision on how to elect members of both councils, is already occupied by a peripheral issue of which part can be resolved by the Rules of Procedure and Rules, for example, whether members of the State's deputy attorneys' office should be reduced by 75 or 20% under the exception of equalising them with judges by turning them into semi-professional members of that body. Furthermore, the problem of hitting meaningless ten-minute talks of candidates, with candidates content which can be witnessed from the personal experience of the representative icaban in the council, is unusually reminded of the jury's conversation with the county missus and tourism or sports. Furthermore, the novel deals with the range of fines in tighter procedures, which further removes the influence of non-state attorney members, so university professors and parliamentary representatives by conditional penalties, and so on and so on. Finally, as a curiosum, I am merely noticing that during my parliamentary mandate, I have not seen a legislative proposal of potentially such weight and importance with fewer objections to what I have done. consultation with the interested public which has almost and does not, with the exception of the principle-based observations by the two members of the council in the order of university professors which have of course been rejected. In conclusion, any debate on such a chamomile as a legal proposal is a groundless and devoid of a measure called the so-called so-called measure. judicial reform, which is euphemism for root constitutional procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112590	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most will now speak the respected representatives of Grmoja and Bulj. First respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112591	Thank you. The discussions that preceded this debate made it clear that the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the state's attorney, does not mean that there is no control of the elected political representatives. Those who seek it don't know what control they advocate and that control is weak anyway. So it is quite clear that in the State Judiciary Council, this closed judicial caste has a much greater influence than our fellow MPs sitting there and we must really not be in a position to let that caste choose itself and decide for themselves. That would be devastating. It is also true that the experiments that are being conducted here in the Croatian judiciary, in the Croatian judicial system, do not apply from the EU in their countries. And it's also true that the big question is whether or not we should have abolished the re-election institute. It is a big question that I put before you all and in front of the Croatian public. Which does not mean that perhaps the proposals tabled by fellow respected General Sacic and some others in the debate on the fact that the extension of the mandate of the main state's attorneys is not good proposals, but that does not mean that the control of the policy of elected representatives from the judiciary, from this state's attorney's office, should be removed. What other control we have and what other control we have left, but generally we have a problem with the influence of citizens and the decision-making of citizens and of giving important decisions to courts and technocrats. And we put it out, so the Most is now preparing an important political document, means a declaration, and we have stated that we support Croatia's membership in the EU and NATO, but that important decisions cannot be passed on to courts and technocrats that the Croatian people do not choose. We have now had an example of this referendum where the Constitutional Court makes one political decision, but okay, this Constitutional Court has been elected here as it is in the Croatian Parliament and because of these decisions, it will account. And those who made those decisions, I mean constitutional judges, but also those who chose such constitutional judges. We didn't choose them. Although some media like 24 hours and Mr. Klausko lies that we are involved in such a political trade. Some of whom Mr Hasanbegovic mentioned in his speech participated. So together, SDP and HDZ, Karamarko and Milanovic chose the Constitutional Court and then the constitutional, such a Constitutional Court brought down these, these decisions by the commission. So these are all issues that need to be discussed here. What I want to say is, it's time to move these corrupt clicks out of power. It is not a recipe for solving all our problems, but a recipe for solving all our problems and in the judiciary and in all other spheres of our society is choosing a national conscious, sovereign Croatian government that will not tremble before calls from foreign embassies, which will not comply with the pressures of corporations and banks and will lead exclusively to interest in what is good for Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112592	He will continue on behalf of the same club, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112593	Thank you very much. The State Judicial Council and the Judicial Council as a full judiciary is essentially the biggest cause of people's mistrust in the state in the apparatus, i.e. into a system that would have to be guaranteed security. I'd just like to mention a few things here, but I don't understand why you're now giving these laws in essence when at a time when people actually have a repeat of the least confidence again? I've had a trial case with Stipe Mesic awaiting a verdict on judges she liked, I can't get enough names at all not to mention names at all, but the judge was basically the daughter of a man who was in the Supreme Court who Stipe Mesic pushed as Supreme Court President and now he's in the Supreme Court member. And of course I was looking for an exception, it didn't respect my but she gave up if she saw that it was rigged and that's how this parapolitical body works, and that's why people's biggest mistrust is exactly in the judiciary. How much influence is directly elected national authority, i.e. the hair in Parliament or the direct choice of those of the President of the Republic and of the other bodies as far as there is inside the DSV and DOV. There's a clean protocol, there's these two people who are one of the opposition one of the authorities, they're there, but it's now a closed circle so the influence of parliamentary representatives i.e. those selected by the will of the people or directly or in representative bodies shall have no influence so that the mistrust is growing and greater. I would say here that when you go out for this pay phone to say what you're doing with the state's attorney's office on the matter of Chetnik Alexander Vukic, he often threatens our citizens. You are also a member of an inter-resorship committee to monitor Serbia's entry i.e. Before Serbia's EU accession, this commission was established in 2016 when the government of Andrej Plenkovic and the previous and this one has not met once, during the Mira Kovac, established so that it should be under emergency. There is also a representative of the President of the Republic, i.e. His foreign policy adviser to see that with chapters 23 and 24 and to see if you have filed charges against the probie of Seselj's Vukic, who constantly threatens the Croats, i.e. To the citizens of the Republic of Croatia... we have a problem with this legal jurisdiction throughout the territory of the former state of Yugoslavia by following chapters 23 and 24 rather than keeping silent and opening its chapter. In order to join the EU, we have arrested all the generals, even Seks had to go outside Sanader and Mesic and on behalf of them when the speaker of the assembly said to arrest, locate, arrest, transfer, and process the most morbid roar. Everything was haunted. You under the Chetnik team in the previous meeting of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic spilled the wallpaper, red and lined up the victory Croatian army. And there's another letter of beer and Branko Bacic and all of you when Colinda was here when he was at Colinda's. That's one thing. The second thing, I don't trust the state's attorney's office and I'm talking about the council, but mistrust in the judicial authorities is causing huge economic losses because legal uncertainty is not guaranteed to investors and investors, and we know that we have huge problems. Huge problems, I mentioned people from the PPD in Baška Voda what they did, they denied it in public after I stepped in here, 33,000 m2 in Baška Voda in a very strange way they usurped and in this way they did not essentially PPD firm but Josip Jurčević, I don't know all this Gobac, as they call themselves, I have no idea, it doesn't matter, that click from the PPD took over. Now it's just gone through with Russian capital. I have nothing against Russian capital nobody cares about me, but Russian capital that probably funds those structures that are now in power. And no one can mention it, but on this point, the state's attorney's office will do nothing, it'll work on this grandmother who sells onions here, if she's not selling out of the market, then the state's attorney's office will file a report, then we'll condemn those grandmothers to be in our grandmother's prison. However, the PPD and others will not be afraid, the para-intelligence structures that were once intelligence structures, here I mentioned Josip Jurcevic again, who was very close to former HDZ President Karamark and Vrdoljak, and all of this is not the issue of this political option, and even the political options within HS are under the influence of these PPDs. Just like Agrokor used to be and big systems. So it's mostly hitting on small fish, but it's time for small fish to unite, so they'll swallow that big fish, otherwise the Croatian people have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112594	And now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Vesna Nadj, will speak. Here you go. We can not from the bench please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The DOV has 11 members, seven deputy state attorneys, two HS deputies, one of which is from the opposition, two university professors of legal science. Obviously, the lack of efficiency of the DOV has been seen since the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are called for by the need for the regulation of the reduction of obligations in the exercise of the state's attorneyship for deputy state attorneys who are members of the council and for the president 75%, and members by 20%. Whether these changes will help to achieve the objectives of the Article. 3. The DOV law which prescribes that the Council is an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the state's attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia? In a situation where 80% of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia think that the judiciary is doing badly, and only 17 thinks it works well and very well, for the status reasons of non-potistic clienteleistic reasons and policy influence 68% of you offer us such a young world guide as part of reform, judicial reform. In a situation where we have an outflow of justice because they do not have adequate working conditions, deputy state attorneys are prevented from being hired as judges. In a situation where the main state attorney admits that before running for the post, she went to talk to the minister of justice, and the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia admits that he had called Chief State Attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, and the point of these calls was that in some cases the DORH responded immediately and in some silences. The Prime Minister says it's not pressure on the DORH, it's a clear and reasoned attitude and it's unusual. When we know that the appointment of the main state attorney or attorney depends on the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, then it is unacceptable for the Prime Minister to call the chief state attorney to give her his position that the DORH should react no matter how clear and reasoned that position is. In addition, the State Attorney's Council is also responsible for verifying the property cards of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys and for launching the implementation of tight procedures. In order to carry out such procedures, parliamentary representatives who are members of the State's Attorney's Council do not have the necessary expertise and professional skills. We can say the same about the State Judgment Council. This should be changed in the case of the first amendment of the Constitution and should ensure transparency, professional and technical conditions for the work of the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council. The Constitution stipulates that the State Judicial Council is an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, but given its composition, it does not have that capacity and, as we have seen, does not guarantee independence. The Proposer cites as reasons for the adoption of these amendments and additions on the State Judicial Council for greater transparency and public availability, and this proposal provides for the obligation to publish a plan to fill the vacancy of the court seats that we commend. In order to achieve greater objectivity and transparency of the procedure of permanent transfer of judges and specific, a special procedure consisting of determining the fulfilment of the judicial duties and talks before the Council shall also be laid down. It would be good if these conversations were made publicly available which is not a problem given the availability of video streaming. The public would certainly be interested in seeing through video streaming from the judge's talks which motivates them for judicial duty, their sense of justice and responsibility in carrying out their duties. There are no objective criteria for estimating the response to these talks, which enables nepotism and clientelism and negative selection. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the council is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process. In conditions where the public has little or no confidence in the judiciary, an increase in the discretionary role of the State Judiciary Council will increase this mistrust due to the unclear and intransparent way of estimating the oral responses of the candidates we have heard for 10 minutes. The proposal states that in order to strengthen the strict responsibility of judges of the catalogue of the tight part, it shall be complemented by a strict part of the failure of consent to carry out security checks in accordance with the latest amendments to the Law on Courts prescribed by the periodic security check of judges every 5 years and shall be increased under disorderly conduct of duties, the duty to fulfil the framework criteria for the work of judges from 70 to 100%, and, at the same time, the irregular conduct of the duties shall be determined and the performance of the statutes of limitations for failure to take proceedings without a reasonable reason. In e-consultation, the Association of Croatian Judges opposes this proposal and stresses that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in the context of amendments to the Law on Courts and the introduction of security checks in time spaces for all judges at the General Session on 25 November 2021, expressed a unanimous disagreement with such amendments to the law. At the request of the Association of Croatian Judges, the European Association of Judges also considers that the verification of all judges at time intervals in the Republic of Croatia does not comply with international nor European standards. The security checks of judges every 5 years can bring judges and judicial authority in the position of dependence on the politicians of the executive government and there is no such solution, the EU country said Radovan Dobrnic, president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the view of the Supreme Court. It is proposed to do so in Germany and France as well as in other EU countries. In these countries, the verification of the property of judges is normally carried out by the tax administration under its regular jurisdiction, not by security services. He says he advocates such security measures, that such security measures are implemented once in view of the fact that Croatia, the reputation of the judicial authority in Croatia, is much lower than in Germany and France, and then some tax administrations are engaged in this job as in other European countries. It's clear with SOA is always under the supervision of the executive authority. The proposed provision is therefore discriminatory in relation to judges as well as the officials of the judicial authority because, as part of equality, three state authorities provide for such periodic checks or are prescribed for the holders of executive and legislative authorities. As proposed in these proposals, judges in Croatia would be the only one in a Member State of the EU to be subject to such checks. The Supreme Court states in a statement that there are other legal procedures for tax, pecuniary, criminal, which could verify the property of judges or determine whether individual judges have committed acts that would indicate their non-compliance or security threat. Under disorderly conduct, the duty to comply with the 80-to-100 framework criteria is also increased, and the irregular behaviour of the duty is also determined by the statute of limitations due to the failure to take procedural actions without a reasonable reason. In essence, this proposed amendment means that if the judge does not make 100% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria for the court's work against him, a strict procedure will be initiated. The resolution ministry states that the current framework criteria for the work of judges in 2021 have proved that 63% of judges already reach the level of 80% in September and after their work has slowed down. It is apparent from the above that framework criteria should be amended as it turns out that if the judge makes as many as 99% of the decisions provided for in the framework criteria, he will still be severely punished. The work of the courts should be more open to the public and show that they are rewarded by the highest quality, and disciplined by those who, who do not belong in the system. The Social Democrats' Club believes that judges and state lawyers should be able to choose DSV and DOV members from the ranks of judges and state lawyers in a transparent manner, to have all possible information on the candidates themselves, their résumés, motivations to highlight the candidacy, as well as other relevant circumstances such as: A college success that can be important for making decisions to give a vote to a particular judge and to a state attorney. In a situation where we don't have the Lobby Act, we can't let a judge or a state lawyer win a candidate who has a stronger party machine behind him and stronger players either financially, whether related to family, godfather or friendly relationships. We are in favour of reforming DSV and DOV and a transparent way of electing judges within the judiciary itself, and democratic control needs to be ensured by greater transparency in the work of judges and judicial councils by publication and systematicisation of judicial practice and by building an internal control system. We believe that the proposal for this law is not aimed at reforming the judiciary, so the Club of Representatives will therefore not support these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112596	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112597	Dear MPs, I'll talk about the reasons for the eviction. The main reason for eviction is the weak dysfunctional, in fact poorly designed institutions because such institutions cannot exercise control of different branches of state government and that is what has left corruption from the chain in the Republic of Croatia. DOV and DSV play an important role in this, and what the whole process looks like is actually starting from the study itself. Imagine now an industrious student of law or a hardworking student who learns legal definitions throughout the day and night, tries to connect the concepts, then enters the exercise system either in court, whether in the state's attorney's office and is aware of citizens' expectations that such jobs are doing the best among us and then confronts the fact that his choice or appointment, for example in the DSV, his responsibilities, the objection to the assessment he received for his work, and even whether he can carry out any additional tasks and ultimately go to a cake to check his property cards, decides for example Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here I was working on the items and procedures of checking the property cards and I really can't imagine what it looks like when someone from these benches is doing it. And as long as that's how we do about such legal proposals, we have nothing to discuss with these quasi reforms. This way, we design the DOV cannot perform its fundamental role, which is to check the integrity of the integrity of the professionality of the state's attorneys and the state's attorneys who work in it. Long ago, I said that the constitution needs to be changed first of all, and if we are discussing changes to the constitution in some other segments, then we should be accepted and those provisions that allow us to have the possibility of reelection, one mandate that takes longer without being able to repeat was also one of the recommendations of GRECO, but all of these good recommendations are not heard by this authority and therefore we have a situation where when the state's attorney should be questioned and investigated and prosecuted by ministers such as Coric, such as Banozic, Beros, we have a state attorney who can't and can't because he doesn't dare because he's suffering for the second term and then the worst in this government are further rewarded, for example, by Ćoric's appointment as vice governor in the CNB. As far as the construction of the DOV and DSV itself is concerned, instead of the 11 members spoken of by Vesna Nadj, we can reduce it, it is important that those who do not perform the job in their professional capacity are removed from the membership, certainly there is no place for Assembly representatives who are not even lawyers. In my opinion, the DOV needs to be state lawyers, and in DSV only judges, even for legal professions or members who come from the ranks of the academic community there are no seats, these should be professionalized functions which have some specific knowledge of the specific tasks they are tasked with. If we had those bodies well-organized, with good results, then we wouldn't resort to these kind of criminal situations that don't exist anywhere in Europe, which is that our judges and state lawyers are checking out our secret services. What we've done with SOA, which will actually serve only corrupt ministers in the government, perhaps today and some corrupt president is one of the most difficult, brutal and most dangerous political blows to the independence of the judiciary, and I don't need to be surprised at all, either by me or by any of you that such a blow has made by one HDZ government. With regard to the proposal of some opposition MPs, judges and state lawyers should have a permanent term of office, but by rotating the one at 4 g. I also think it is a monstrous idea, perhaps such a thing can work well in the United States, but certainly not in a society like this, not in a society where 16.4% of Croatian citizens choose a corrupt, corrupt political party. Imagine if we had something like that when we chose judges and state's chief attorneys, so where would corruption in this country end? So don't play with such suggestions, don't play with them. And as for the results of the work, a little less visible, perhaps less exposed to the public, each parliamentary representative could determine only if he gave a little effort to look at what is on the website and the DOV and DSV and the new, redesigned, digitized. There's absolutely nothing there. Property cards should at least have been made publicly available to judges and top state lawyers according to published reports of long ago. And here I invite you to open a website so see how many user friendly formats it is and how many citizens can enter any judge or state attorney's property card, how many clicks and how many requests and compare it to, for example, the property cards of our officials, so one big nothing. As for the verification itself, it is repeatedly stated in these reports that the verification will be established when the conditions are met. Currently, for many years it has been in the phase of networking of databases such as DOV and DSV with other state bodies. In 2015, 2015, I do not know what to do with the DOV and DSV. So it waits, waiting until now for such a system to be declared slow, ineffective, one that does not give results so that SOA can infiltrate in such checks, and it is known why and to whom it goes in favour of an independent judiciary in any case not. And the third in which parliamentarians also have their responsibilities are specific subjects of strict responsibility and the very verification of property cards. So, if you look at how many such cases in the entire state's attorney's office or judiciary at all, you'll see very, very, very little, and what little has been made transparently public that every state attorney can determine what is considered inappropriate and not ethical to his profession. There's nothing better for the judge himself. And as long as the judiciary doesn't realize within itself that it has to get rid of its weeds, that it has to be cleaned out of the cereals, until it realizes that inappropriate procedures must not only be made public and made public to everyone visible and available but that such decisions must not even be anonymous, we can also not go forward. In 2021. Only two decisions have been made concerning the strict responsibilities of the state's attorneys. Whoever the hell that was referring to is the one in charge of Drazen Jelenić. And as they were properly explained, we see from the fact that they were returning again, that the court was revoking them because there was no argument that it was well argued why the chief state attorney could not also be a masseuse and that is all that the Croatian judiciary needs to know. But it's not only the judges, it's not the judges, it's not the state's chief attorneys, we're the parliamentarians who either have no will or have no knowledge that we're putting our institutions in order, to establish them at least roughly similar to what such institutions look like in neighbouring, well-functioning states. And just so it doesn't turn out that I've been very sharp about it, the fact is, for example, there are members in the DOV that I highly respect and appreciate and I think they're quality, they're not as corrupt as the public thinks. And I also know that I have been alone in such a life, and in such circumstances there is no greater frustration, but there is really no greater frustration than being in an institution where you want to do your job properly, but these limits of your authority and jurisdiction do not allow. This is exactly the kind of problem all those honest and brave who are currently working in DSV and DOV would have, unfortunately, such are a difficult minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112598	Now, on behalf of the HDZ club, respected representatives Bosnjakovic and Jelkovic will speak. First of all, the respected representative Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have two extremely important laws before us, the DSV Act and the DOV Act, and we see that both DOV and DSV are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as independent and independent bodies that ensure the independence and independence of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. These are those bodies that deal with and implement the appointments of judicial officials, their resolutions, decision-making on progress, and we see that this is really about extremely important bodies. If we look at the history of the establishment and definition of such bodies then we would see that it was actually extremely important in the entry negotiations and... EU member states in Chapter 23 then, in fact, a criterion was set before the Republic of Croatia where it was required to completely change the system of appointments of both judges and state lawyers and to get the policy out of this process as far as possible out as possible. If we go back a little while before, we can see in principle that, at a time before that, DSV members rarely actually left as DSV members in the process for more and more significant functions or switched to degrees higher. That was unacceptable. What has also been suggested as unacceptable is that politics has just been given an opinion by the Parliamentary Committee on Justice on Candidates, to all candidates who have applied to certain courts. Although I must say at that time, I did not see what was wrong because it was approached at that time in one very way that I did not see politics having influence but the parliamentary committee always made and gave the opinion that all candidates who appeared were meeting the formal conditions and then it was left to the DSV in fact that it was making a decision on who it was. So, after that, there was precisely this designing of DSV as an independent body with an composition that someone has observations on, someone would put it together or something like this, but it was actually the result of both negotiations and constitutional changes that they were. And as a member of the DSV chosen from this assembly, I would say as soon as possible that I think the DSV is doing its job well because if someone was listening to this debate he might think that this is all about some kind of kitchens, setting up political lines and all that, and I'm seeing how I'm experiencing this work, in fact that there are the most decisive points that someone does, and the DSV out of this box doesn't come out, and I think that's the most honest and honest approach that can be. And what I want to say is that there's a lot of great candidates, so there's no getting out of some kind of political candidate hat, so now that's what someone on the political line is calling it, but I just think it's a fair process where quality is valued and where the results that someone in their work has achieved are worth it. This law certainly makes steps forward and these changes will in any case contribute to me thinking better work of DSV and better staff policy. It's good that this deadline for publication of the fill-up plan is reduced, I think it's good, and this one that actually DSV has no more 15 points than 20 points, so it'll be able to better fulfill that role it has, meaning not only that it's a statistic but that it's actually someone who thinks it should be. It is also very good that special methodology is introduced for advisors and that advisers will receive an evaluation based on their work, not based on a passed judicial exam or a state school exam, because this assessment will actually enable them to really value what they did, and the largest number of candidates comes from the ranks of consultants. And I can say that a lot of candidates appear and can't all be simply appointed and there might be a need to think about strengthening the advisory function. What only I would express some doubt or say to think about until the second reading is this consent to the security checks you define, its acronym as a stupendous act, think about it because consent is actually based on the fact that this is my choice I will give it or not. If I answer, if I deny consent, it's a kind of coercion. Think about it for a second reading, and as far as I'm concerned, this law is a step forward anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112600	Next is the debate of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112601	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with the secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I will continue on what my colleague Bosnjakovic said, so although both of these legal proposals are good because in certain segments they balance the work of these two councils, it also prescribes some important specificities that are important for the effective work of each of them. In addition to the fact that it is about keeping an eye on the keeping of an eyewitness because it is run by both the Ministry and the State's attorney and the courts in this way that makes it easier for the council itself, it also provides technical support, which I think is good. As regards the introduction and determination of the need to fill the place of deputy state attorneys for the purpose of permanent transfer of deputies, the obligation of competent state lawyers to supply relevant data is introduced, and it is also a condition that the transfer to another state attorney's office of the same degree may be requested only by the deputy who has been acting for three years, which has not been the case so far and I consider it to be a good newspaper because the invitations to tender have occurred often for appointments of those who wanted to be appointed, but have not only been in charge of the place of duties, and have already, after the next publication of a tender that corresponded to them more in place of duty, re-applicated to the appointment tender and it has additionally burdened the work of both the DOV and DSV, so I think that this paper is very significant. In the process of appointing a provision of this law, it also complies with the provisions of the State School for Judicial Officials, which I also consider to be good. The procedure for the appointment of deputy county attorneys shall be brought in line with the provisions of this law and shall also allow persons who have previously exercised judicial duties with the criteria of specific written examination of the knowledge to be appointed. For the Council's greater effectiveness, it is also prescribed that the council does not have to call for an interview with a candidate who, even with the highest number of points in the interview, could not be appointed or could not outnumber other candidates who would get, say, a minimum number of points, and I think that this will speed up the work of the council, especially when a large number of candidates appear in the competition. I remember, since I was also a member of the DOV to know how to report 50 candidates per contest, so I think this is a good newspaper, with the fact that only in the publication of the final order and the final number of points should make sure that it is transparent and does not raise doubts among the candidates themselves. The largest number of points that the council can give in the discussion, as Bosnjakovic said, has been increased from 15 to 20, and I believe that this is good because both councils are independent and independent, and their jurisdiction is to appoint judges or deputy state attorneys. If we can narrow them down just so that they can add up what the candidates bring to themselves and that by giving them points they can't have any effect on the choice of candidates, then I think we've derivated that authority. I therefore believe that this, this increase in points will contribute to their independence in the appointment, but it will also not reduce those other objective criteria that those who need to be respected. As far as the other changes are concerned, I also believe that the good and the newspaper that is being introduced into a tight procedure are in just determining the penalty. In fact, it is increasing here in a way that determines the fines by introducing a new one, but I also think it is a good thing that some more, some details are prescribed as well as that the start of the term of office of members of the council is accounted for by making an oath because so far has been written since the elections, which then led to inequality, inequality and inequality in application. As regards the obligation to submit an asset report at the end of the duty for deputies, what is already in place for judges is now being introduced, which is that, upon termination of the duty, that obligation for them It doesn't exist. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, in short, the HDZ Club will support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112602	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Club of Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112603	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, let me throw a little glove out of the opposition to my colleagues. Can you think of a scandalous decision by the State Judiciary Council in the last two years since I've been a member, and I've missed seeing it so it turns out I've misrepresented you. As far as the State Judiciary Council is concerned, I know a little less about the State Attorney's Council because I'm not a member, but what I do know is that the difference between DSV and DOV is important because of the relationship within the structure. In the State's Attorney's Office, it's a bit of a stronger hierarchy, so all 7 who are actually appointed there are part of the same hierarchy and they have to listen to the same boss, and 7 are elected, and 7 judges who are elected to DSV still don't have to listen to the same boss, and they are, too, there are more. On the other hand, I believe that one amendment should be introduced to the provisions of Mr. Minister's law which speaks of the way these two bodies decide. And that is to prescribe that the decision cannot, that the decision has not been made if it has not been voted by at least one member of the DVS or the DVV who is not a judge or a state lawyer, or to rephrase it to say clearly, it is necessary to give the veto to the judicial and not the state's attorney's department in decision-making. So judges and state lawyers there are the majority, but it is necessary to prevent the majority from making decisions against everyone else. And that would be one balance that would be desirable. Can you imagine a situation where all the judges are on one side and all the representatives and all the teachers on the other side? This shows significant alienation, it would show if there were to be a significant alienation of that part of the profession from the rest of the public. And it should be prescribed by this mechanism, it is, probably very rarely or almost never would have happened but it should be put to know that when they have already given the constitution the opportunity to have most of them in that way. Of course, I speak here in a distance from the profession that is there because it can happen that it is alienated from the people, it has all the mechanisms, it can decide on its own, it calls for independence and independence, so I guess it should at one point have a red button to say it can't, not exactly call itself a major state attorney now. Although I have to stand up for the attorney general. What is not there for this speaker admitted that she called the minister before her appointment, counterpart Bosnjakovic admitted it, so it was only these who returned the call, it is not illegal. I'm kidding. Now a little bit about the legal text itself. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that Article 30 little, Article 30, you liberalise a little bit of this so that it doesn't turn out to be written just because of one candidate who will run for, in the elections for the DSV article in the High Court of Criminal Court. Then it's better that for these elections, when we have a new court, all high court representatives can be the ones who are Frenchly appointed, they won't change much, and they won't have a lex with a picture maybe. Secondly, I heard this today from Professor Djurdjevic on the board that she had a problem with the fact that, say, someone who's a deputy chief, deputy state attorney, a municipal state attorney, can't run for judge. That I couldn't find in the law, but this one if, that, that would be disproportionate, disproportionate restriction. Now, I've come several times into the situation that in the talks for candidates for admission to service, or for the appointment of judges of the lowest courts, a much better candidate who has fewer points than a candidate with more points really works. And then I come who in that joke to whom I trust more, the examination committee of the judicial school or my own eyes. This is indeed one situation that can happen sometimes and that is actually coming to this quite large question whether the examination committee of the State School for Judicial Officials is above the constitution of the prescribed body that should be appointed by judges. This change, proposed to increase the number of points, reduces the panel's discretional assessment of DSV but does not look good in the public. I think that equating the criteria for these starting points should do so, something that in the ski jumps for the crash and the wind that follows the ski jumps, that simply the average score in each generation which was so in front of the same commission at the same time should be some basic, basic value and then be compared to that average, that the performance of each generation is assessed in relation to that average. In fact, the older one, the older ones in that school, they passed the exam when it mattered whether you passed or didn't pass, when it wasn't the points that mattered. It's about like college when you refuse grade two, so you come back and get four again. They didn't have a chance to refuse grade 2 and they couldn't take it again to get grade 4, and then those younger ones who came in later when they figured it out simply if they saw they weren't exactly in shape on purpose and then they came in next time and they got ahead and that's a pretty big problem that should be solved. Now something about transparency. I consider Mr. Ministers from the experience of two-year work in the DSV that a single ranking list should be established for each calendar year for the appointment of the lowest courts, so that the talk with candidates who come to apply to the lowest courts is made once a year and that a single ranking list is made for the whole year and when the first ad comes for the free court first on the list is called and said good day, we have a free place here, do you want to work there, yes, not go next. That's much more effective, more rational, here's a colleague of Jelkovac's going to agree, I can see she's not watching me, she's going to be talking to me five times. If, of those who appear for the first reception, or for the first appointment of a council, they decide that they will not appoint someone and remove them from the list, it would be subject to the control of the constitutional court and that would be correct. So this is how we have, we have this plus, for some candidates I've memorized all their biographical data, what they've been doing up to, what, what they've been doing because they're coming 6th, 7th or 10th time to talk, it doesn't make any sense. Therefore, this would be a significant increase in the fact that at the beginning of the calendar year, a single ranking list would be made from place one to as many as possible, and they would have the right to choose which court they would like first to be named by the foundation of the ad, based on the plan that goes forward, going forward and then not to report for court in place A, and then report for court in place B because it is closer to them and more answers, then I would immediately say I am the first or first on the list and I want to go to court in place B, get off the list, go to 2, 3, 5 and 7, that would only mean that DSV would have a strike, strike December and that is that, so I would have talked with all interested, but would not have held 5 interviews with the same. As far as the public is concerned, I also have to object to the media. DSV sessions are open to the public, and they were only when the president of the high court and the president of the County Court in Zagreb were appointed. I think it would be good, in fact, to have the DSV sit in HS or one of these halls, so that logistic support is given to him by executive authority, and to him to be exposed to the public in HS. That would be, let's say, that I'll give the amendment to, to, to, to, to, to, to second reading when it is, and that's that DSV at its regular sessions has in HS. And then there's the press, and then there'd be a little more, a little more public work for the DSV. I hope it's mine, my line from the beginning to try to remember if there's been any scandalous DSV decisions in the last 2 years. among other things, as a consequence of the fact that the public or the media are insufficiently monitoring the work of DSV and DOV. This thing with the DOV that Jelenić gives them back to them four times the Supreme or which court is that to them, it's one minus, but it's about that one. Therefore, the respected minister in the dilemma that part of the law will better evaluate the one we agree with or disagree with here is a little more relaxed when we first read. I suggest you seriously consider these few suggestions that I made in the debate. In this regard, until the SDP vote, the club will decide that it will vote on these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112604	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112605	I thank the chairman. Here I have looked at today and the debate that was on the Committee on Justice and I see that again all those remarks that have been highlighted have been highlighted, in fact, in the very process of public consultation on these two proposals, legislative proposals. First, we must say again that it is actually amazing that after all Justice Scoreboard after all the bad results that we have, in principle, the judiciary and perceptions of the independence of the judiciary, we still do not go in the direction of some simple changes both within the DSV and within the DOV, which would improve the perception of the judiciary in that part. It is defeating that in Justice Scoreboard this year, based on research so far, the latest results show that public mistrust in judicial independence has increased to as much as 80%. When you look at that graph, you won't see it, let me turn it over to you, but when you look at it comparatively with other countries, it's incredible differences, so people who don't trust the judiciary think they're doing bad or very bad, or that they're not that big of an independent share of other countries that it's really saying that something fundamentally doesn't work. Now we can talk here that a certain perception has been created in public, that the media is guilty, etc. What we've already heard from the former, formerly I'm stressing the Supreme Court president, but the fact is that when 80% of people have this perception that something in the system is rotting. One of the key reasons and here we are worst at EU level is the issue of perception of the influence of policy on judges, the issue of the influence of stakeholders on judges, but also the question of how these judges are elected. And now this is exactly what this part of the reform is about, the question of the choice of judges and state lawyers, so the key element is actually every judicial system. So, today, Professor Djurdjevic, but it was also pointed out in the e-Advise itself that instead of strengthening objective criteria for the choice of judges and state lawyers, more discretion and the severity of the discretionary assessment of DSV members or the election of state lawyers to DOV. In particular, the interview, that is, as she said, a ten-minute conversation, is about to take place, carries 20 points that makes absolute progress compared to other criteria, and the worst part is that there are no objective criteria in the criteria, which are objectively verifiable criteria, such as success at the Faculty of Law, completion, success in the judicial exam, etc., etc. So those things we can measure. No, a ten-minute interview measuring the sense of justice is more important and will have more than all of someone's work during education and elections. We have already proposed here and I will now say it again and it is not just us we proposed, the biggest experts of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, but also other universities in legal sciences say we need a leak within the judiciary. When we say that we should let those who are not... judges in the system of trial and that we do not have enough and it does not happen that as judges are elected by people who have worked until then in another part of the legal profession, prominent prominent lawyers with a long history of practice, professors of law school, people who do other levels of legal science, science. And why do we need that? Because when you have a system that chooses itself, and we allow it to choose itself and reproduce itself, it is hermetically closed from the public, but also from other parts of the profession and how we can expect that system to transform itself in any way. So that's impossible, I mean look at the system theory, I mean it's not going like that, he's not going to run himself in the other direction. And these are some basic remarks here, so we don't make it possible again and again for the majority of DSV and DOV to reproduce themselves according to interests that not have this profession but that one small closed part of that profession and not to open it further. So we've said the same thing when it comes to other parts of judicial reform, we'll repeat it again, so we can't measure the court, the judges' successes, and thus condition their progress by fulfilling the quotas because it's not such a job. This is not a job where you will prescribe exactly how many cases he will solve, what we can prescribe is not how it is conducted, and within what time period of the main debate, whether in litigation, whether in criminal proceedings, and why, for example, they should be joined by time, hearings within them. Let's just say we can do this, but we can't tell people you're going to solve so many cases a year that's your norm because the case case is different. When judicial reform was carried out with the help of both the European Commission and consultants from different countries, EU member states, then the UK was also a member of Serbia, one of the key problems encountered is how to weigh, how to weigh the weight of a particular case compared to setting a certain standard and there is no perfect system. The Americans came with their own, they came with their own, and they all admitted that there is really no system that would set objective criteria on this basis because it is impossible to get it out in advance, is and if we go in this direction we need to know that the experiences of other countries are much bigger, much more developed in that sense, and that they have advised our neighbouring country also in this respect concluded that in fact such a model may not be the best model and we do not need then to go that way and repeat others' mistakes. Except that the judges are forced to work in conditions that they are, and the state's attorneys that we're not talking about working conditions, I don't know if anyone's ever been there and seen that, so people leave the state's attorney's office and these great people who were one of the top students and students later got a job at the state's attorney's office, advanced, etc., are leaving because they work 11 or 12 hours a day because they don't have enough because they work on weekends, and they work in conditions that we can't imagine here, where they don't have room for the archives, let alone for anything else, where they don't have their own desk but share it with their colleagues. These are the conditions in which judges and the like work. And in all this, we judge them not by success in terms of the trial but by statistics, and then that's what the Croatian Judges' Association here has put in the e-Advisership and we're checking them out, but not only are we checking them out, but they'll be subject to a tight procedure if they don't give consent to a security check. Well, people, that's what it is, so I think it's really on the trail of some systems I guess they wouldn't want to go back to. As a security check on the team, it can work if you agree to it, but the catch 22 if you don't say yes, then we'll be chasing you tightly. So it's totally amazing, and you people have to wipe it out, it's not going to go anywhere. I mean, in the Constitutional Court, I'm sure this is going to go down, and I hope it goes down if it's really going to work out. So, the fact is that judges are placed in a position to agree to a security check by SOA which is part of the executive authority where these findings can always be manipulated, where they do not have the possibility of appeal. How are you gonna complain about that finding and what are you gonna do about it? And if you don't agree to that, then you're being prosecuted. As far as the Council of State is concerned, strict procedures should be carried out in public, public. They need to be open to the public, and we also think they should to establish a court of gravity within the State Judicial Council. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112606	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Fair Croatian Honored Representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112607	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the Law on the State Judicial Council regulates the procedures and conditions for the selection of members and presidents of the State Judicial Council, the termination of their duties, the procedure and the conditions for appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution of judges, the procedure for determining their strict responsibility, the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts as well as other issues relating to the work of the State Judiciary Council. As the Proposer has stated, the draft legislative proposal has been approached to level the criteria for the candidate of members of the Board of Judges of all courts, and to remove existing discrimination arising from the prescribed conditions for the conduct of a judicial office in a court of a particular type of at least five years, taking into account the time of the proceedings of the Court itself. For that reason, regardless of the conditions laid down by the Judges of the Court of Justice referred to in Decision of 8 November 2019, it shall give the right to be candidates in the first elections for members of the Council of Judges who will implement this law after the entry into force of this law. It is also due to greater efficiency in the work of the council, according to the motions, in the procedures for the appointment of judges, that the council has no obligation to call on candidates who, even with the highest possible number of points in the interview with the number of points reached according to other prescribed criteria, cannot be appointed and the Council is left out of the bounds that it does not call candidates who have achieved less than 130 points in their duty assessment. The largest possible number of points that can be achieved during the talks before the council is increased from 15 to 20 in order to strengthen the role of the council in the appointment process, and for the same reason, by increasing the rounds of the best candidates between which choice can be made and by increasing the possible difference in points between the best and the selected candidate council as an independent and independent body, the decision to appoint judges is extended to the discretionary decision on the best candidates. Well, fellow MPs, I see a serious problem here, and it's with the right to discretionary decision. I'm going to remind you of a kind of affair not long ago or better to say the indignity of the DSV, the bodies that were meant to ensure the independence of the judges, which made a spectacular mistake in selecting judges. The DSV, which includes experienced judges, law professors and two politicians, still violated the constitutional rights of two judges. This was the essence of a recent decision by the Constitutional Court that revealed the shame of the State Judiciary Council in the process of appointing a new judge of the County Court in Sisak in the first half of last year. The DSV's decision in that appointment was abolished following a lawsuit by the judges who, or the judges who competed for that position. In fact, DSV chose a candidate who failed to score the highest number of points, while not making an effort in detail and clearly explaining such a decision that they would still have to do by law. For this reason, the proceedings were practically ignored by judges who pointed to misjudgements of the conduct of the judicial duty that affected the final ranking. The Constitutional Court therefore concluded that the judges were violated by constitutional rights and sent the DSV to the correctional. I will also mention the example of a constitutional suit filed against the DSV decision by a judicial advisor at the municipal state attorney's office in Split. The State Judiciary Council also received the language of soup from the Constitutional Court and reiterated for the same reason the violation of the constitutional rights of the candidates for the courts' seats in the appointment of judges. The Constitutional Court abolished the DSV's decision to appoint a smaller-ranking candidate for the municipal court in Split and to skip a candidate who had as much as 7.44 points more than he did. A candidate who is better placed on the ranking list, who was skipped in the appointment of DSV, violated the constitutional right to be available under equal conditions, so the decision-making process for the appointment of two judges of the Split Municipal Court must be repeated. The contest was called for two seats in that court, with ten candidates facing a wave of judicial advisers. As for candidates who enter the judicial profession for the first time, their expertise is being tested at the legal academy for a rather demanding final exam, and the applicant’s examination was convincingly the best. First one on a 276-point ranking list. She received 3 points more than the second-placed counsellor at the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Split, and as many as 18 points more than the primarily elected adviser of the Split Commercial Court. However, the points in the final exam are not final. They also include points that the candidate receives in an interview with DSV members, and the DSV that best solved the final exam was quite reluctant. In the range of zero to 15 points with as much as I can value the interview with the candidate, she was only given a modest 4.22 point. According to the second-placed final exam, the interview was worth 13.78 points, while the previously selected candidate who did not brilliant in the final exam simply spelled out the maximum possible 15 points for the interview gave him 14.78 points. So on the final score sheet, she was second-placed on the knowledge test with 286,78 points. The applicant for the constitutional court ended up second-placed with 280.22 points, and was originally elected thanks to almost maximum points during an interview in the overall order jumped to 3rd place with 272,78 points. The DSV, according to its constituent, showed additional generosity in the final decision for the municipal court judges in Split at a session held in January 2021, appointed the first-placed one from the final list and the third-placed one by skipping the second-placed applicant of the lawsuit even though looking at the total points had as much as 7.44 points more than DSV voters. The DSV law requires that in those cases where that body chooses to give priority to a candidate with fewer points, in no case shall it be appointed as a candidate who has more than 10 points less than the one skipped in the reasoning have to specify precisely what are the specific reasons which led him to such a decision. In this decision, however, DSV did not state any particular reasons why they appointed a candidate with 7.44 points less on the final list than the prosecutor, and even 18 points less on the legal knowledge exam. The final constitutional court suspended the DSV's decision to appoint two judges of the Split Municipal Court and ordered the DSV to repeat the decision-making process. In the shortest lines, the Constitutional Court recalls that decisions taken by the DSV using the powers entrusted to it by the constitution and by law must not be unfair, unreasonable, irrational or arbitrary. in disagreement with the rule of law. The DSV quoted the Constitutional Court as saying that it violated the constitutional right to have a job on equal terms because it did not state any specific reasons in the decision to appoint two judges of the Municipal Court in Split, which would make it clear why it gave priority to the candidate with fewer points. Therefore, the constitutional court cannot remove doubts about the arbitrary DSV decision. According to current DSV work, it seems to me that there is a very dangerous situation in which, in the proposed provision, amendments to this law allow for a greater discretionary assessment of DSV members. It seems that the proposed changes are trying to play the constitutional court itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112608	The following is an individual debate and is the first respected Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112609	Now a little Lifestyle section from the series “Let the Institutions Do Their Jobs. ” So in a pietresque town on the coast, a Croatian institution spent the privatisation of a meadow playing soccer and its environment and the entire rural road to the cemetery. Then the second Croatian institution estimated that the first Croatian institution should not have done so. The third Croatian institution claims that the evaluation of the second Croatian institution in which it said it was, said the first Croatian institution should not have done so, unimplementable and illegal. The fourth Croatian institution, however, says that those who crack the ball on meadows can still do it on meadows, but the fifth Croatian institution says they can no longer do it next to the meadow, while the sixth Croatian institution says that those who have now received a trip for the stands next to the meadow where football plays proved nothing to have a ticket to the football field. The seventh Croatian institution proposed to the eighth Croatian institution to pass a law requiring international assistance, and then to include the 11th Croatian institution, the 12th Croatian institution and, in fact, the sentence "let the institutions do their job" get their vicious, ominous names in the sense that it would be better if only one institution were to do its job and this other institution was to control, without including twelve institutions. Of course, I'm talking about this case that I think, of course, the company that's involved has a perfectly legitimate right to demand its rights, that everyone has the right to fight for their rights, but in the end, it's the state that needs that Gordian knot to cut off and it's going to cut it either in arbitration, or in cooperation, it would be better in cooperation for everyone. This is what one meadow, its environment and rural road to the cemetery were discussed by the head of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the chief state attorney, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the wife of the former president of the United Kingdom, whether this should have come this far, all because of the work of the institutions that name those institutions that we are discussing today. So the next time we talk about trust in an institution, let that picture eventually remain clear. If the church hadn't been in that part of the place, God wouldn't have saved her from privatization as they were going. And now, two more words about what my colleague Vukovac was saying. I am keenly interested in explaining how the decision of the collegiate collective body was taken by 12 votes, with 8 votes in favour and 4 against. It means that, which were the reasons for someone to give so many points to one candidate. So someone gave 12, someone gave 6, someone gave 4 and then there was an arithmetical environment. Which genius could explain why I gave 12 and why someone gave 6 and some 3 gave 4. So, within the framework of what the legislator gave DSV discretionary rights, they acted. I don't remember whether I was among those who voted for these candidates or not. As a rule, I try to vote mostly for those who have more points, but I allow myself the right sometimes not to be satisfied with them because I say again whether I will trust my eyes or this committee of justice who also has some kind, some kind of discretionary powers of evaluation. Here, I mean, we were all at school, so we figured maybe the professor was too hard on us and gave us a low grade, and we deserved more or more. What may not be good in what is well seen, should not increase this discretionary space to DSV and DOV, is not necessary. If another is to be conducted, another way of standardising the evaluations made in different years, then that space can be further reduced. So this is a more mathematical question and the question is actually, as far as discretionary powers are concerned. They are now limited to a maximum of 24 points, let it be reduced to 15 but then within those 15 there are no more arguments that is, it is a decision based on the right of government, the right that gave you the Constitution to appoint and you do not need to be specifically explained by my position In my opinion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112610	We have a few replicas. The first one is Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112611	A colleague of Bauk's Croatian judiciary, as you know from the European Commission, is seen as the worst in the EU. The government in which you were sitting initiated the Act on Pre-departure settlement where courts confirmed pre-departure plans, for example, when the Tax Land Administration in Vinkovci accepted an estimate that the land was worth 100 euros per square square, and that land was an ordinary field and was overrated fivefold. The DORH said of this scandalous fact that your former Minister Linic absolutely has no responsibility. What is clear to both the Croatian and international public was formulated by Dr. Dauster of Munchen, otherwise the judge who condemned your rescue employees Mustac and Perkovic. On the question of journalists about the statements of the so-called A lawyer named Nobil said Nobilo was fantasizing. Do you agree with the assessment that in Croatia the problem is not laws but judicial officials with communist tails and corruption methods?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112612	Thank you, first of all, I think that for the Pre-departmental Deal Act, at the end of the day, it's the opposition vote because he's got some good stuff, and he's had these problems, of course. And it seems to me, if I recall, that was eight years ago, that, among other things, that meadow in Vinkovci was one of the reasons why the Prime Minister then replaced the Minister of Finance. Now I don't know, I don't know about DORH's actions. As far as this second one is concerned, I, as I followed the National newspaper Perkovic, was twice appointed to the HDZ government not in ours, so I wouldn't, I couldn't fully agree with you in that part. Now, as far as laws are concerned, they are a minor problem because laws can be changed if they are seen not to be good, and as far as judicial officials are concerned, there are good judicial officials and the bad ones. Are these exactly the reasons you said, I don't know what someone's communist tails would be, that it's against private, that it's against private ownership and multiparty system are your problem... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112613	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112614	I thank the chairman. Here's my colleague Bauk, I must say I disagree with your observation I think it's quite a slippery terrain when we extend our right to discretionary evaluation, but I wanted to replicate something else. I'm interested in how you look at checking the property cards. For example, here is the President of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod 2 years ago submitted his property card, which says that he received or bought for only 8,000 kuna penthouse sizes close to 100 m2, so at the price of 80 kuna per square. Two years have passed since the said judge was called to prove and the DSV is obliged to prove whether the procedure was legal in accordance with the regulations, however there is no answer. In an article, I read that only the Ministry of Justice prevents them from doing so and that we will obviously never know the truth. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112615	As far as this first one is concerned, we disagreed. I also feel that there is a need to narrow down the discretionary space, but then, within that narrowed-down discretionary space, there is no more room to explain. So she says it's my decision and I'm standing behind her or I'm not behind her. As we in the assembly when we passed the law, that is, the Constitution gave us the right to pass laws, if some law is unconstitutional, then the Constitutional Court abolished it, but there is no need to further explain why we voted yes or no. As far as the judge's property cards are concerned, I have to say that in two years, I haven't met 1.5 of the DSV's work with property card issues and I think it's both good and bad. It's bad because nobody does it, and it's good because it's not what judges do. However, what I think should apply to judges on property cards is the same law as the officials and that it is done by the Commission for the conflict of interest which is nevertheless slightly more effective and devoid of these shackles of which the DSV is referring to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112616	The next replica of the esteemed Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112617	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I'm glad that you as a mathematician touched this number of points and calculations, and you also pointed out that as a DSV member, you didn't give that candidate who came with the highest number of points the maximum number of points because he didn't give you the best impression. And it's really this situation that needs to be respected because someone may not have to get the highest number of points from the state school exam, maybe it wasn't given him, maybe he had some other family or his life problem, so he didn't get the best result, but so far we've had the situation that this result actually knew how to cement him about his further progress. I believe that this increase in the number of points cannot go against this number of points with which they come to just leave space that in a situation where there are more candidates that can truly be assessed fairly and that those who have really made the best impression get the highest number of points and that both DOV and DSV, who have per constitution as an independent and independent body of appointment powers, can really influence that designation. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112618	As my colleague Vukovac said, it's a slippery terrain, but I've got a lot of big hacks on my swimsuits, so I don't, I don't mind talking about it. Yes, so sometimes it used to happen that a person who got fewer points on the exam really made a much better impression or vice versa, that one who showed exceptional knowledge in the exam had little problem with social and other skills to say so. He may have had a bad day at the interview, but ultimately, on the basis of all these criteria, a decision is made within the framework of the legal framework literally. So, if I have the right to vote for someone, I'll vote if that's my best and I don't think I should particularly explain it if I don't have to explain it. What I think would be good for Mr. Secretary of State to prescribe that for every time a court counselor received the highest grade as an officer to be added to him as one point, we will thus further these with experience that were good in the ministry bring the possibility of being appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112619	Following is an individual debate of the respected Karoline Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112620	Ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments to the Law on DOV and DSV have been completely missed and do not solve any problems in the operation of either the state's attorney's office or the judiciary because DOV and DSV fall under the main causes of the blocked judicial order in Croatia. Let's take DOV that in its structure and composition itself is problematic and in its nature prevents any positive change in the operation of the DORH. Namely, DOV is made up of DORH people and people from key political parties, and they should control the work of the DROH and sanction abuses in the work of the attorney's office. So that means that employers should punish their perpetrators. For example, in that council, Peja Grbin probably sat to protect his friends from being punished for the billions of embezzlements they had made to Croatian citizens. But DOHR's task is not only to pursue violations of the law and corruption but also to return stolen Croatian property by pro-active action to Croatian citizens. The DROH is equipped with various instruments in the international legal order that could ensure that stolen and exported money from Croatia is returned to Croatia. However, our DORH is a folk figure of an institution that is of no use to anything. DORH's investigations are the subject of mockery by Croatian schoolboys, for example, by whom the name of the anti-organised crime is already concerned with issues of who hired in the state service or state-run company, and cases such as Agrokor where billions of people were brought out of Croatia mean stolen, not USKOK, but a regular county attorney's office. What excuse do we hear through media structures about God’s complicated corrupt actions, e.g. In the case of Agrokor, stories are for small children. Here's a letter from the 2014 Bureau of the Prevention of Money Laundering. which was then investigating a 25m-euro payment of Agrokor to the British Virgin Islands, as is known to be a tax oasis, it was a method of how taxes were being cut off and the money was being made from Croatia because of the level of corruption i.e. its height in Croatia is so huge that it is impossible to hide it, there is no need for some special legal knowledge and finesse of international corrupt trends because Croatia is faced with the most primitive form of corruption. As Todorovic was not responsible for these 25m euros that he unlawfully alienated in the tax oasis, Emil Tedeschi was also not responsible for paying his company's private money in Austria, which was confirmed by the Austrian financial supervisory authorities. And that's exactly the problem when the DORH is investigating something then in principle it's not about research but about hiding evidence, we could see that in the case of Gabriela Žalac. The software whose value was estimated at 2.9 million kunas was paid 13 million kunas, so 10 million kunas are stolen at work worth 3 million kunas. And that DORH thief isn't controversial, the DORH concludes and says there's no crime at all. Then comes the European Prosecutor's Office who reacts as any reasonable person. Today we learn that the European Prosecutor's Office has indicted ten Croatian citizens for corruption, including SDP and HDZ Vinko Grgic and Drazen Barisic, who are charged with applying budget damages of more than 165 million kuna. If the DORH had investigated this, it would never have been completed, either as in the case of the Kaljac or in the case of Croatia Insurance, it would have concluded that everything is fine. Ladies and gentlemen, the DORH protects crime against the case of Uljannik, VP Krš-Pađene, Brodotrogira to Croatia insurance because in the case of Krš-Padena DORH it deals with 40,000 euros, and it is about billions that Croatian citizens will pay, and they would not have to pay. In Brodotrogir it is quite clear that it is a huge corruption that is very simple to investigate, the state was paying off subsidies and these subsidies were leaving someone. We need to determine where. But DORH is an example of the institution through which Croatia is choking these Croatian citizens from Croatia. Let's try to imagine what the United States would look like if in the case of Watergate then President Nixon under the pressure of the investigative bodies he wasn't forced to step down, the United States would certainly not be the leading economic force but would be an unstable swamp. And this is exactly the swamp that DORH creates without investigating corruption and investigating war crimes, and not even after 30 years, DORH has filed any charges against Serbian concentration camps as he has not filed any charges against JNA pilots. Indeed, a zero point in the change to be implemented in Croatia is the shift of the entire leadership of the DORH and not only the shift but also the processing of those in the DORH That hide corruption and powerlessness. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112621	Replica esteemed representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112622	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues Vidović Kristo, so you have often talked here about blocked justice, about the deep state, about examples of corruption that permeates our society just by presenting concrete examples, concrete names like you did today. I have no doubt that because of your openness you've had problems, but do you have any knowledge that just after your pronunciations of names and examples have been set in motion, do you have an example that some of the above institutions have done something of course within their powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112623	Thank you very much for the replica. Yes, my colleague Vukovac, the first thing that comes to mind, is the case of the Trade Court in Osijek, which I spoke about publicly, but it's not just me, so I'm from the Parliament's pay phone and through various other public statements, I'm warning about the same thing, I'd say eclative corruption and bargaining, in the end the president of the trade court was removed from that position. This example is evidence that something can be done through this public speech, however, in this case, it is not DSV or the competent institutions who have not adequately responded because there has been no adequate sanctioning. Our task is to warn and diagnose, and in the second step, introduce order into the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112624	Next replica, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112625	Comrade Kristo, you've listed numerous examples of corruption, and here we have fresh corruption where the PPD is. PPD owners from Josip Jurčević and all those who owned the land were state-owned at a one shameless price low 30 times cheaper in the Makarska coast i.e. in Brela, so the damage has been done in billions of Republic of Croatia. I was saying it here and the media carried it a little bit, so it's similar to the Misetic dynasty that governs operators so that telecommunications is in favour and is won by the largest foreign teleoperators at the expense of our citizens. You cited the example of Brodotrogir, Uljanika and Skver Splitski where two billion kunas got Fatty who did not purposely spend and it is clear that he spent, who knows where that money is, we can list countless examples, but is one single fact that only, the DORH has become a clean political body and the biggest problem of the Republic is this political body, and this is the judiciary complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112626	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112627	Thank you, colleague Bulj, I agree with you, we could count it out indefinitely. Adequate sanctioning and changes in a wider scale cannot come from the simple reason why we have here a clear range of political power, justice and media that are largely corrupt and under the control of the ruling political summit. You've listed the PPD, that case is one of the more eclectic, we have information that this company is within 10 years. It has grown from 50 million kunas to 20 billion, and that it is all clean and that the jobs are clean, of course not, and we also have information from our international partners that testify that our Prime Minister is openly lobbying for the company. This is very problematic, and this should be spoken publicly until finally what we say is done and that is the regulation of the state and sanctioning of all these perpetrators who are working on the damage of Croatian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112628	Next is the individual debate of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is Mira Bulj's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112629	Our colleagues and colleagues, we can, we can talk for days about DOV, we can talk about, about the judgment council, but the fact is that the Croatian state is so networked. Here I mentioned the teleoperators a moment ago, essentially the Misetic dynasty that directly has an impact on Andrej Plenkovic so that the damage he causes is huge, not only by his decisions and guessing teleoperators, it's about billions as far as the right path is concerned, trying to reduce both the many other things and the biggest profits have teleoperators. I stand behind this and repeat, here I am publicly saying that the greatest influence for the biggest winners in the EU as far as Deutsche Telekom's telecommunications activities are concerned, and I will repeat that as long as I am alive and even as Mayor of Sinja, I will sue because it is against the law when teleopers or Deutsche Telekom who illegally signed our network that our people gave and who paid for our parents and local self-government and that's corruption and what we're talking about state lawyers about, what we're talking about, and billions of people are in the pocket of teleopers, and we don't have kindergarten. I think I'm going to enroll all the kids as mayor of kindergarten, of course it's an eternal battle, mostly in undeveloped areas, and now our tiles are downgraded right by the biggest winner. It's the same thing in my neighborhood I can say about traffic, like buses. Mate Junovic became the owner of the Car Transport Sinj, without fulfilling any obligations he became and the station in Split became so, I think, without any obligations he had failed to fulfil under the Consolidation and Restructuring Treaty of the company Auto Transport, destroyed everything to destroy, destroyed public transport and care whom I personally filed countless criminal charges and I was tried, sued, brought into countless of these things, can list them in my territory only a Chettish end. So the biggest problem currently in the Republic of Croatia is to mistrust the judiciary and repeat it. The key problem of Croatia is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary and that is the cause and the key of the problem, that is the key to the problem, and how this is solved, obviously we do not have a good will and obviously we as the people's representatives elected to this assembly, in this representative body we do not have the highest level for this force. The Constitutional Court is also corrupt, making decisions as the ruling party tells him, it's a terrible message, here I see a constitutional referendum no matter how much I agree with the question or disagree, he had to go to the people's vote. He did not go, to the people to tell their people about or against it does not matter, but it is the usurpation of the right of the people from which the government originates, from which it comes as representatives of the people or the president of the Republic who is directly elected, and from us it comes to mean as national representatives of the government. So the government's supposed to be responding to the assembly, and we've got all this weird stuff in us. We choose the head of state in a way that we choose him directly, and basically we are parliamentary democracy, basically nothing is known here anymore. There was some kind of cycle here, so there was a mistrust in the judiciary. So what are we? We are parliamentary democracy or we are, we are legally let someone now determine what we are, is parliamentary democracy or are we presidential. If we choose the president directly, then we should be Presidential, at least I think so. It's Parliament's choice of government. I don't know, it's some hybrid, I don't know what hybrid it is, who invented it, and why it's so made up, but the fact is that we see what it comes to when it comes to making important, key views so that it's still going to get hurt in this cabbage of everything. So in the cabbage of everything, we got some Bosnian pot, everything. It was also mentioned earlier, and the indictment announced that it would raise Chetnik Vukic towards our pilots. We do absolutely nothing about Serb war crimes. For what? Is it likely that Milorad Pupovac writes to you exactly how you're going to implement a whole policy and you have to agree to it and that's the case. That's right, but fairer would be choices than working that way. So once again the State's Attorney's Council of DC and the Fate Council are essentially minor here, it's all essentially a parapolitical body that calls and... or arrest or release someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112630	Replica esteemed Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112631	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, here you are courageously standing up to protect the interests of our municipalities and cities, or all units of local and regional self-government that are available to the infrastructure actually built by our parents and which is left to one strange decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Deutsche Telekom. Unfortunately, on this committee we worked on a few days ago, representatives and ministries, ministries and representatives of HACOM sounded like the paid representatives of Deutsche Telekom and Tcom themselves. Do you think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are following this and that, of course, based on such discussions and such knowledge, they must doubt the work of our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112632	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112633	Thank you very much. So that HACOM's regulatory body is essentially Deutsche Telekom's lawyer office, which works exclusively in the interests of Deutsche Telekom, and not as a regulatory body in the Republic of Croatia and was seen from that exhibition and representative, the Secretary of State of Transport was also on the side of teleoperators. And I repeat once again that the infrastructure that was built and illegally entered in Deutsche Telekom that they were owners, according to the '86 law. which did not change telecommunications is our infrastructure, when the HPT, when it was separated only then could under the law be owned by units of local self-government or those whose ownership is land. And they have entered a complete infrastructure on themselves plus now the new law wants any... an example of agglomeration when buried and if the cable is cut that the local self-government unit has to fix it, not that they fix it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're just an exploitation field to them, thanks to Misetic Dynasty. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112634	Vesna Nadj is a respected representative of the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you are as a Croatian defender when you came back from the battlefield and met with savage privatisation, so now this corruption and then it's a little frustrating, not a little bit but rather frustrating for Croatian defenders and is it not time for all of this to be resettled, to bring to power one, one option that will really be dealt with with with by corruption or to extract corruption from this country with roots, not just a haircut.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112636	Thank you very much. I remember, the Dalmatian end-of-the-line factory in Sinj, for months... It was 3,000 people employed and was very important for the development of the entire Cetina region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Literally my chatter worked there, all the people worked, mostly the female labour force was then mainly and essentially urbanized all together and went through this process, and it was incomprehensible to me when one of my relatives came when she said that Jon didn't pay 5-6 months, that terror and then I started protesting with these people and I ran those protests then and I was still an active officer because it was incomprehensible for me that people, women who work and earn their wages had no money for a marenda, had no travel expenses, had no opportunity to give to their children and it wasn't clear to me at all what it was about, after the war. It was only then that I realized that they sold out everything in the Homeland War, when there was a war, when people were killed, bleeding for this country, they sold out everything, and they left those people on the road that they left behind in those factories. And that's the saddest thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112637	Next replica, the esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked my colleague Bulj if we had a parliamentary system or a presidential one. I often hear that question from our citizens and perhaps some clarification. We are therefore a parliamentary system where the government is politically responding to parliament, where Parliament is elected then it is a parliamentary system. Even the semi-presidential system is a parliamentary system only one special sub-species. So, and what we had until 2000 or what France today has semi-presidential but still parliamentary, presidential or purely presidential to be clear has the United States, for example, where the Head of State is also Prime Minister, so they are not two separate functions and it does not correspond politically to this House or Congress. Here's a little clarification, but I thought it was important for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112639	Thank you very much. The state is determined, a system managed by the head of state's election. We are not chosen by the head of state of Parliament as President of the Republic, but rather by the will of the people. It has the highest legitimacy of the one chosen by the will of the people, which is the President of the Republic. And the government... Parliament and it corresponds to Parliament, you're right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The monarchy, how to mark the monarchy if, of course, the king or queen is hereditary. So at this point, we have one piece of meat, a Bosnian pot, one bullet designed to target, so I'm not going to say this hard cohabitation, but we do have, see what we have in the state that someone who has too much legitimacy is electoral, and that's the President of the Republic is in conflict with those chosen from this Parliament. So an unsettled system is very welcome this way for this corruption and all this together regarding both the DSV and the Judicial Council, because people That's what they're watching. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112640	The next replica of the esteemed Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112641	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear and dear colleague Bulj. You stated that our system of Bosnian pot, I would say, and that this debate of yours is a bit of a Bosnian pot, you touched everything. But now I'm just gonna look back on this last thing you said. With some of the things you've said, you've looked back and those aren't part of what we're discussing today, and I can agree. But what you last said was that DORH and DSV and DORH that it was all a parapolitical institution they couldn't agree on. In this way you have offended, insulted all the hardworking people in the system, all the young people who are having difficulty in completing legal studies, that they are later perfected and that they continue to conduct all these duties through progress. I remind you that according to the Law on the Constitution and the judges and the deputies of the state's attorneys are independent in deciding, that everyone in their case makes their own decision. This is how generalizing really offends all these people that I think is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112642	I don't know, you, when you're running for parliamentary representative, you're sorry to know what the role of a parliamentary representative is that everything he knows without hair on his tongue must be presented, and you know best the biggest problem of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's what Zdravko Mamić proved to you, the head of the criminal organisation HNS Croatian Football Federation has proved to you. I can tell you lower levels on examples. So the man who escaped from the state on charges of certain crimes has proved that the judiciary is corrupt, that the system is underrespecting a number of people who are probably doing their job with honor. But those in this system can't be highlighted. Believe me, those who work honorably and work honestly can't be distinguished. This is a purely political pair of bodies, respecting all the exceptions that are within that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112643	There's a final debate coming up. It is the first club of HDZ MPs respected representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112644	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, and here we have already been told several times, so we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council and on the State-Law Council. Of course, that is all, changes and additions in the first reading, and I think the competent ministry will also use all this debate that has been conducted both in front of this tide and on the relevant committees. I think she was, because I'm a member of at least one of these committees quite openly. However, some of the ideas carried out there do not seem appropriate to the present moment, as it is known and can also testify as a witness to this judicial system itself that some of the things that are now being proposed and want to introduce in some of the money or novelties are not certainly on the trail of democratic change, i.e. the justice system that the Croatian judiciary knows, i.e. the Western European legal profession. In particular, I counted in these two legislative proposals in question a total of 37 amendments are proposed without talking here about some amendments concerning the reduction of a particular article and so on. So this means in particular 28 in the Law on the State Judicial Council and 19 in the Law on the State Attorney's Council. This means that when you take into account everything, the number of articles that are in place changes and all proposed changes should also be seen through the prism of the whole meaning of amending and supplementing the law of the entire judicial system, I also remind you of the Law on the litigation, commercial, bankruptcy and any other solutions that will surely go into the fact that the judicial system is as effective as possible. A lot of this has been said fascinatingly about security changes, meaning the numbers and points that are given to us on the basis of discretionary assessments by the relevant council and the Fatal Council and the State Attorney's Council. I recall all these changes concern mainly the judges of trainees who decided to maintain and fight in that body and achieve their career and internship as a lawyer and through working in court. I can admit that there may be a certain lack of interaction between all stakeholders in the judiciary. I mean here primarily from the professors of law school, then the lawyers and the public records, all the other stakeholders in the proceedings. However, I think it should be pointed out that exactly when it comes to the points and discretional assessment of any candidate for one of these judicial functions who can assess better than that body that has been accompanied by the whole work and the development of the candidate himself for the office of judge since the very beginning of the judicial traineeship. I have to admit, I have a lot of colleagues and colleagues who do this job. I know they carry jobs at home, they write judgments and in part-time on the financial and technical conditions on which they work can be discussed, but here, unfortunately, throughout the debate, it is said that we are talking about a judicial profession that is, or puts them in a negative context. The fascinating ease of giving certain epithets to all these judges, and they forget that we have over a million cases that have been solved and whenever any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are trapped, regardless of the system that wants to stick to the judicial system, achieves their own and addresses one such respected institution and tries to solve their problem through the judicial system and through the work of the judge himself. Finally, it is, of course, the first reading of both legislative proposals, some of the comments highlighted during the debate will be included in the second reading, and finally, for both legislative proposals, it is certain that the HDZ Club will accept the proposed text in the text as proposed in this content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112645	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Respected Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112646	The key problem of mistrust in DSV, DORH, the Judicial Council, is the political listeners who have been exclusively doing what has been directed against them from Brussels or from another central body for decades. I would only briefly say what the people are looking at through the prism of the judiciary most painfully. A colleague... just before the Homeland War, after the Homeland War, the main goal was to enter the EU without any price, then it was to arrest, locate, transfer, and then it was being persecuted by General Norac, so the persecution of Gotovina, Markac, had no idea, many died and in prisons so that a great frustration was created at the very beginning, so there was no price not to persecute these people and that for many years it waited to free some international institutions from Croatian generals or Croatia in these honorable operations, so it happened in the case of General Gotovina. So these frustrations and those statements of political strong key people of these Shex's words were ringing in the ears, mainly those people and generations who participated in the Homeland War, and that was the entire people of Croatia was involved in any form and so it began to... suspect the Croatian judiciary immediately. And later, when looked through the privatisation of certain destruction of certain companies, this even greater frustration of the people, the working class was struck by an even greater blow, and mostly by the family of those companies that were missing, they were literally gone, and that solidarity had disappeared according to, for example, if the Auto Transport Sinj had failed, the Dalmatian girl had not helped either solidarity or strike, so that some kind of corrupt octopus had lost confidence because of it. And now how do you get it back? Again, and only by listening not only because you can't be just a listener, you have to keep certain things you have in your judiciary, but it's so much mistrust that I always say five things in Croatia that are the biggest, people who have the most trust that's the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. Is this the cause of the DOV, the lawyer's or the judge's I have no idea, he gave the judiciary, the attorney's office I can't get into the analysis now, but the fact that all the experts whether those lawyers will say it or not, everyone will say it's the biggest mistrust in the judiciary. Slowness, unequal practice, political pressures and many other things that we can all influence, all of which we can influence. Now here's a colleague he's in Glavas' party, I remember when Shakespeare is haunted, and now together again are best friends, when the Glassava was persecuted then down for war crimes then General Glavas asked to defend himself from freedom. And I remember Drmic calling me that no one would buy signatures for him, then I was in Sinj to defend myself from freedom. I bought the only signatures at the time in Dalmatia, then sent by the women of the Homeland War I remember somewhere they surrendered then to the great opponent of Branimir Glavas who was not allowed to defend himself as a defender to defend himself from freedom... I remember that time, and all these things are now consequent, and now that they're hugging the Glasgow and the Shakespeare fellow that his nickname is then it's obvious that this mistrust is coming back to people. I know that for days then I've bought signatures for Glavas with my colleagues and we've well collected signatures, so we remember a statement in that process let's say detudgemanization, but not SDP detudgemanization, but HDZ's detudgement from Tudjman, then shouldn't be a picture. Let's just say I know when it was in Sinj no one should have laid a crown on Tudjman's memorial. I was laying, what, I wasn't a member of the party I took to the first president in the square he was. So this was happening at the time of Sanader, the Sanaderism which is essentially still His call is here and [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112647	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112648	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to point out once again in the final presentation the importance of opening these two highlights the importance of opening the work of these two councils to the public in the part in which it is prescribed that their work is public. This should include recording sessions and the availability of sessions of the part which is open. The place of the meeting not to be at the Ministry of Justice but in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, better, a better way of explaining the ranking for at least that part of the judicial advisors and others who report for a public invitation to appoint the lowest, to the lowest courts to try therefore by one major procedure in the law to define a single ranking list by points for a particular calendar year and based on that and order of priorities to make appointments. That would be 3 things that are relatively easy to do that neither require material, nor other resources, and would significantly raise the transparency and trust of citizens in these two important institutions that are very often under the radar, under the radar of the public except in those so-called. I don't know, when it might be too late. I have to say that without a googling, you wouldn't even know who the president of the State's Attorney's Council is, and if I wasn't a member of the DSV, you probably wouldn't even know who the president of the DSV is. It is therefore constitutional, constitutional bodies, constitutional categories with a very important function and in fact the beginning of what can kill good and bad things in the Croatian judiciary. As far as the judiciary is concerned that the procedure, as a rule, takes part in two sides and that decision will one always be dissatisfied, it is at the beginning of 50% of those who are dissatisfied, but it is also better than having 70% who are dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-25-0.u112649	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the amendment. Session adjourned at 5:26 p.m.
