ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u102819	Dearly beloved, following the events around us I cannot help but wonder if it threatens Croatia's hunger. A kilo of wheat in Croatian wholesale in April was 62% more expensive than in the same last month, according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture's market price information system. Only three weeks later, May 22nd, a kilo of wheat was 81% more expensive than it was a year ago and sold for 2.74 kuna without VAT. Corn was sold at the end of May for 2.7 kuna per kilogram which was 64% more than last year, and smooth flour type 550 simultaneously jumped by 55%. The latest oil prices have not yet been published, but it is known from April that oil has accumulated by more than 50% in a year. After an increase in the price of milk in shopping centres of at least 20% per year in May's last week, fresh cheese in Croatian wholesale was on average 21% more expensive, edamer 34%, and gauda even 52%. As far as prices in Croatian butchers are concerned, the most expensive one is June. In the first week of June, the June return to the butchers averaged 20% more expensive than a year ago, while the June butt stood 26% higher. The price of pig's neck from the bones was simultaneously increased by 14%. In a year, the lamb has collected 20% in the meat mills, according to the Ministry of Agriculture again. What remains unclear is how much the price of buying the listed raw materials and products from our farmers is increased. It's clear to all of us that the warrior is not in the wheat warehouse today. The dairy industry is rather shyly raising the price of buying milk from producers and it is not at the level of purchase prices for milk in other EU Member States. The harvest is at the door and our farmers await first calculations for their efforts and pains. The plant was invested more than it could, so many were credited and yet not invested enough. Many were no longer in debt, so the second crop savings were lagging behind. The damage was also done by a fight that countered Croatia and which Croatia is not even trying to fight, even though we have a valid Law on the Defence of the Fight. How it is even possible to have a valid law that is not to be broken but not to be implemented at all. Who's ignoring who? By ruling myself, I would say that to the harm of the Croatian people. When we talk about meat, let's not forget how our producers only settle a little more than a third of our needs. The rest is soon paid by dry gold to importers and cattlemen from other countries in the environment, and I'm adding alarmingly collected energy prices, blue diesel almost 10 kuna, as much as 3 liters of milk for a litre of blue diesel. Is that fair? Electric energy is three times more expensive. How will entrepreneurs survive this unbearable wave of gatherings? The prime minister boasts of the measures introduced, but has not given up anything. He didn't even make it clear why we're having this kind of attack on the standard. And our farmers are entrepreneurs. How many liters of milk does a cow need to produce to pay for all these triple loads? Farmers who are supposed to produce food pay for electricity consumption according to industrial tariffs. Many entrepreneurs are threatened by major business problems, and even the closure of their business, the increase in electricity costs of as many as 3 times is the largest of the entrepreneurs that are happening at this point. Three times he collects tariffs for entrepreneurs and without arguments why he is so many times more expensive is not only discrimination but also legal robbery. Transferring everyone to the back of our entrepreneurs is an established practice in Croatia that needs to be stopped. I am afraid to answer the question of what is waiting for us only after the season and next year with interest collection, entry into the euro zone, and with the continuation of the already existing galloping inflation, without its own food production, along with the devastated rural space and without man in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u102932	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Krstulovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u102933	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning, some of my colleagues were talking about a cold case in my town, the town of Split, and then it's my turn to report. I thank a colleague who left a place on behalf of the club for me to say a few words. My city is back on the cover of all the media, all the newspapers, and again some people who are not up to the management of the city are working from my city city case. I'm appalled and sad that my city is subject to attention because of men who shouldn't be involved in the work we do. Before every election from the hostage, some past stories appear, slanderous gossip, truth, untruth, lies only to harm someone else, but also to disgust people with this job we do. I myself was the victim of several such ugly slanders that had the sole purpose of hurting me, not thinking about the consequences and today I wear these scars. However, what is happening today? There's a truly terrible situation going on today, what used to be lies, these are the truth now. It's amazing that our distinguished colleagues here in the assembly are relativating what happened yesterday. They write letters to their children pointing to a bad, bad life in Croatia because of HDZ. Why don't they now write a letter to their children that there are people on their site who are capable of doing such terrible things. Is that the hypocrisy we make here? Are you and I sponsors of this behavior? What is the lesson we all need to get out of a case like this? They say these protagonists of this horrible story that they're all set up, I say let the police do it. But what does their conscience say about what happened? Do they have consciences? What are the moral values of these people? With the absence of recognition of error, they again show that human political, emotional, and psychically immature are involved in leading anything, let alone the city. How would the distinguished representatives of the Oreshkovic Centre or Pulak act if this had happened to someone from HDZ? No, they're relativating this. This must not be related because this pollutes the entire social and social space in the Republic of Croatia because they say this is a disgrace to Split. No, gentlemen, this is not a disgrace to Split, this is a disgrace to individuals and the shame of society that relativeizes these things. This is no shame in my city because my city has shown many times that it is a pie, honest, hearty, honest and ultimately cultural city. And what's implicated in our city by some irresponsible individuals isn't Split. We have decided in our city to raise our children, raise our children in a peaceful environment, and we will not give up such values from those moral values that should unite us all here and ask all of you here to be respected colleagues and colleagues, unanimous and strong support for such promotion of values because in a society where harsh words, hard words, slanderous words, aggressive behavior of individuals who have microphones create a society of unrest and thus youth shows the way out of our homeland is actually the responsibility of all of us. Now it's time for things to demask themselves and say what's the matter. The conflict between a decent, fair, normal, working world and those who are not, those who are immature. I refuse the city's arrival of a case over my city and invite you to consider carefully whether this will happen tomorrow in your town in your village. It's our job to put an end to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103025	8th debate of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club and respected colleague Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103026	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On April 20th of this year, at the current morning in the assembly before the case of Cavid and everything he opened in the Croatian public, I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic if he would also see to it that women in all our hospitals have the right to terminate their pregnancy. It's something that the law allows them, but because of the mass appeal of conscience, it's more and more often left a dead letter on paper. The prime minister replied that he did not know it, but asked the health minister Beros to collect data and report to us all on the real situation. I know that the parliamentary services have done their job very knowingly and that the inquiry is sent to the government on the basis of this Prime Minister's request. On the day after that, I asked Minister Beros on the same subject, and I asked him how many specialists and specialists in gynecology and anesthesiology in our public hospitals have the appeal of conscience, or how many of them refuse to perform abortions, prenatal diagnostics and prescribe contraception, and I asked him to state with these numbers the total number of gynecologists and anesthesiologists in each of the hospitals so that we have a picture of what percentage of doctors are in the call. In addition, I asked him how he intended to organise work and ensure the availability of the laws of prescribed and authorised procedures, how he would arrange to inform the ministry about the planning of staff and information to the public or the patient about the status of individual doctors, how he would arrange compensation for doctors who were not performing part of their work, etc. According to the Rules of Procedure, which has the power of the law, the answer should have arrived within 30 days, so almost a month ago. The assembly also sent a rush to Minister Berosha, but there was no sign of him or voice from him. Somewhere in mid-May, nearly a month ago in Croatian media, the story spread that the Ministry of Health has asked hospitals to provide information on the number of doctors with a conscience call. I was just hoping that the work would finally be done and that we would get the data, but there is no data, whether the hospitals are slow to answer to their minister or if the survey may have shown what civil society organisations and researchers have been warning the public about for years, the appeal of conscience made by Croatia is a country where abortion is difficult to reach, and in some hospitals and it is impossible for large hospitals to do, what is allowed in reality does not exist. In Croatia, a conscience is allowed and it is until he is the right doctor, although I have my own opinion about it which is a little different from what the law allows, but while I respect it, and what I don't respect and for which I don't understand that two rights are brought into conflict with each other and then one, and in this case they are women who need a health care to be denied for their right, and that's something they can't. The appeal of conscience is based on the idea of freedom of opinion, conscience and religion guaranteed by a number of Conventions on Human Rights as well as a democratic constitution, but it is wrong to equate the freedom of the conscience of an individual with the right to refuse, in the workplace paid for by public money, the money of citizens to provide the same service which is permitted and envisaged by law, and even less has an idea of freedom of conscience with the fact that a public health institution does not provide any legally prescribed and accessible service at all because all or most doctors are called upon to the appeal of conscience. This appeal to a conscience is not the exercise of one's human or civil rights but rather the opposite, it's a violation of one's rights. That is why I look forward to the Minister's answers, first of all, to finding out how many doctors in Croatia have a conscience appeal, and then even more importantly to hear from the minister how they will organise a job so that what is allowed by law is not denied by people with the help of various dirty games and false morals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103171	We are going to the last 11th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the esteemed colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103172	Water is the basis for life. Every household must have water, and if anything stands to protect the constitution, it is water, with energy with food and air, water is the most important. I have been giving calls here for months to 5-6 letters to ministers, former Minister Coric, and I am writing to the current Filipovic, and I have asked the prime minister here about a huge and huge liquidity problem of the water company, which, due to the rise in energy prices, leads to the question of survival and, of course, also water supplies. Here is my colleague Opara now talking about Split, but part of Split is also powered by the Cetina River. At this point we have gentlemen, I repeat again, but this is the last time I repeat myself, last night, yesterday it was me... He called for us to go to the prime minister, to the president of the assembly, the Knight-Alkar society, but we are pleased to see you all in Sinj, I repeat 1,000 times the days of the Alka and the Great Lady, we have a wealth of tradition, history, as well as our resources of the Cetina River, which gives 40% of the Republic's hydropower, three times more than the Krško nuke. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, 800,000 kuna peaks are arriving, one million kunas to the Cetina region's waterway. Last year in the 4th month of the water war for pumps that must be mountain-mounted to the pool, water was 170,000 kuna, this year is a million kuna. Last year, 2.5 million kuna was the annual price of electricity to HEP, the Croatian HEP you win, which has 4.5 billion kuna on the account, which was the only winner in the crown crisis and which is produced by 40% of the Ceti River's hydropower production. Will that people now have to pay double, triple the price? As mayor, I also warned as a majority owner, one of the major owners was 47% of this problem. And this wasn't a political issue. There are co-owners, mayors, chiefs who are in HDZ, independent, but they remain silent. Why do they keep quiet? I don't know. But at this point in time, gas problems are brought to mountainous and mountainous areas and collect water 500 percent, and I repeat 500 percent again, and I won't let that happen as mayor, even if it wasn't. And from who? From HEP who mercilessly tramples this people and from the basin of the river Cetina what returns, nothing Sinjo, very few other municipalities. Nothing, absolutely no crumbs, we're the only field of exploitation. In four of those letters, five of which I sent no response from the ministry, no buzz. In the county, I'm talking about the problem, not the buzz. I can talk about Ivosevic, about a sexy scandal, but at this point in the area, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, we need to collect 100% of the electricity, water, and already 300% of the electricity has been collected in these rural areas. It's a job loss and no one's gonna hear it. And today, I would have to take a picture with the Honorable President of Parliament and the Honorable Prime Minister as Mayor of Sinja. We who are Sinjans are a friendly, rich tradition, rich history, rich culture and I would now have to talk about Ivosevic and his scandals sexy. Split is my city, but Split is powered by the water of the river Cetina. And what would I have to do now? The red wallpaper to Ruda and Kosinjca where the sources of these areas are powered and for the alka one lip caterering with the lipe of our Arabs, the prosciutto and of course this time you will obviously shut down the candle of the distinguished President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, you will be the ones who will shut down the water for the people. Because 500 percent isn't 10% of this electricity. So once again, if I strike, but I won't let you do this, so the minister won't accept the mayor or the parliamentary representative. After 10 times, be ashamed and come to us in Sinj as guests, we wait for you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103173	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. I don't know why you tied me to a lack of water, but there you go, free speech, so you can do that. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103174	Here I'm just gonna brief President-in-Office on this one of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103175	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103176	Since you're at your reception today, I found out yesterday, they sent me an inquiry to come and I, the management of the Knight-Alkar Society, and they called me as mayor and you're a guest down there and you and the Prime Minister. And we're friendly, but 500 percent of that people with the accumulated electricity and no one reacts it's more embarrassing and I repeat it again. It's you... [[Come on, please.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103177	Now, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I've given you a brief statement. You're talking about phenomena that are global, and I don't know why you're connecting it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103178	It's not globally 500%, says the prime minister 90% gathered... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103179	A visit, a visit to an Alkar society with a water and electricity collection has really nothing to do with it, please. The fifth debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103248	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we witnessed yesterday the third in a row of 20 days apart. The victims were the municipalities of Bedekovčina, Poznanovac, Krapina, Špičkina, Tuheljske Toplice and probably many others. All those who were already in Zagreb in the evening, in the afternoon they saw those terrible clouds that really looked so cataclysmic and people were taking care of the cars in Zagreb after seeing the cars were killed in Varazdin and Varazdin this and in Zagorje County, however, these clouds went over and destroyed the words of Bedekovcin, Poznanvec, Krapina, Špičkina, Tuheljske spa. To remind you, Mayor Kolar has declared a natural disaster for the Hum municipality area on Sutla caused by that strong beating on May 25th. On June 2nd, the fight caused major damage to the agricultural areas in the areas of Klanjca and Oroslavlja, the municipalities of Kumrovec, Zagorska sela and Velika Trgovišče. I would like to remind you that on March 25th from this pay phone in delivering the club's position in free speech we have warned that the completely insufficient funds are reserved for the mitigation and removal of the consequences of natural disasters. We have warned multiple times from this booth that it would be appropriate to finally declare the climate crisis. What the European Parliament declared a long time ago and many European countries. However, it is not for some reason that we do not want to admit it, and I think the situation would be different. So we were then warned that the budget for 2022 was reserved funds of only 20 million kuna for damages across the country. In addition to this 19th law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters, it is as if farmers are discouraged. The truth five days ago, the prime minister was forced to triple the funds since the damage was reported in Varazdinska, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorje, Koprivnica-križevanja, Zagrebačka and others, in six counties. According to the European Environment Agency, Croatia is among the three European countries with the largest cumulative share of damages from extreme weather and climate events compared to gross domestic product. Watch out for three European countries with the largest and that is no reason not to take any concrete action. We are convinced that it is necessary to launch a broad initiative to ensure solidity of agricultural damage. Now I'm talking about a fight. Then on March 25th, the cold was that threat we had a year ago. You remember when three dawns in a row the temperature went down to -7, not to say that it was already a drying period, it barely fixed something. Still waiting for us, who knows what these droughts will be, and then again after that flood. The fights used to be in the summer. These fights, these thunderstorms didn't happen in five or six months. The fact that the state in its budget pays the private insurance company a premium, 70, 75% and the farmer still has no interest in paying that premium of 25% because he knows that his compensation will be extremely ridiculously small.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103249	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103250	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter These black clouds you mention are cumulonimus, but here I would actually congratulate Mr. Matula and the entire city government of Zagreb, especially Mayor Tomašević, for having managed to blow the clouds over Zagreb yesterday in the direction of Croatian Zagorje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103251	Comrade Zekanovic, of course you deserve a warning. This was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to another debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak to the esteemed colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103347	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Following the latest public opinion survey at the beginning of June this year, the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body received from citizens one skinny two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two. It's almost an impenetrable grade. What are the main causes or reasons for that? Well, just what we see today, among others, almost every day in the Parliament, and that's a half-empty assembly. We are in the 10th assembly soon half-term, we have several parliamentary deputies who have reported less than 10 times. We have a good part of the parliamentary deputies who appear in the assembly once every two weeks during the vote. I haven't even met a part of the MPs yet, so maybe by the end of the term, I'll be able to get to know everyone. We've got a piece of Parliamentarians who'll do anything to end up in the media, so they'll carry different bags with different ingredients, which is why the technical service will have problems. We have part of the parliamentary deputies who will not look at or read the letters about the proposed legal acts but will actively participate in the debate. The second reason why the assembly got one skinny two is that the assembly is actually looking at 35 to 39 weeks in a year, 3 days in a week, and if parliamentarians want to prepare themselves well, they can use it for the first two days. Some will say well compared to other European parliaments we are even above average. But I'm asking myself, why aren't we working next week? This week we have a state holiday for the body, we're working today, we're working tomorrow, and we'll see you again Friday. Next week we have Antifascist Fight Day, so we don't work all week. So what makes antifascists more important than the church holiday of Teelov? I'm surprised that one of the democratic parties who is currently acting in power in this country supports this decision. Unfortunately, often in the assembly, although the parliament should be a festival of democracy, where different opinions are reasonedly exchanged, we have insults at a personal level and then a respected president of the assembly interrupts the debate because he does not allow these insults, which is quite all right. In yesterday's interview, however, just the president of the Gordan Jandrokovic assembly, in one sentence, just the president of the assembly, offended the parliamentary opposition, where he said a significant part of the opposition was sub-optimed and malicious. So what do you say I'm undercut? What did I graduate from college in record time, the first graduate of my generation? What was Vesna Vucilović, a science doctor who worked in the real sector for 10 years? According to what was Zeljko Sačić the magistrate of law who went as a lawyer to defend the Croatian state as opposed to some who were in various offices? You insult us, you insult our constituents. I believe that just as president of the assembly, you should be a role model to all the other council colleagues, and I firmly believe that you didn't mean it the way you said, and I also hope that this is why you'll apologize to your fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103348	I'm not going to apologize to anyone. I said that one part of the opposition was subscribed why you recognized yourself in that I really don't understand. The fourth debate as an independent representative will be addressed by a respected counterpart, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103388	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I always find it the strongest when someone comments on how the assembly is empty, and when the speech is over, they leave the assembly. Sub-capacitation can also be found in various spheres, e.g. knowledge of geography, some think the Earth is a flat plate, and it's not a flat panel, it's round. So in Croatian society there are often various types of relativisation and relativisation, so in recent days we have a scandal, a sex scandal in Split. And the candidate for deputy mayor in Split, Mr. Ivosevic, is not guilty, nor does the debtor fall into some kind of almost pedophile affair. I wonder what would have happened if by any chance someone from the right side of the political spectrum had done a similar thing. Whether this would also be the way media relieving would be, or would be justified, a media link that happened a thousand times, for example. when similar events happened with members of the Claires. The optics when you look left and right are not always the same, so when you talk about Tito, regardless of what he is declared one of the greatest criminals of all time, it is popular to talk about him, and if someone mentioned Pavelic what I do not approve, then he would be automatically declared a fascist and a Nazi. Similarly, a similar relationship in the mainstream media and towards communism compared to fascism. Let's imagine that the same media halabuka rises up about some professor who talks about other Tito's sympathies or the period of communism as it did several times when there was talk of fascism. Let us imagine or wonder why Mr. Ivosevic does not have the same treatment as General Glasnovnic who, when insulting journalists, had a complete media boycott, and when Mr. Ivosevic threatens a physical journalist, has an even greater media popularity and is even more likable to the media. When left-handed people get drunk and get high, they're happy progressives, when a celebration happens on the right, and then they're drunk retards. When Milanovic admits to smoking marijuana, he is a progressive, if someone admitted it from the right, he would be a junkie. Puljak sings Ustasha songs, but that's not the problem, we'll forgive him, but if someone on the right sings Ustasha songs he'll probably say goodbye to politics. The left doesn't even mind when he sings Mark Perkovic Thompson, let's remember his colleagues, he doesn't mind Mr. Ivosevic when he speaks ill of the Jews in one inappropriate way, so we easily forget all that Stazic and Beljak said in this same assembly, and if someone from the right-hand part of the political spectrum said something similar he would probably have to give up his political career in public. So my optics are different because I'm looking from the right, and maybe I'm objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103443	We're going to debate now. Today, first on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives, dear colleague Prkacin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103444	... more than a month's period from 10 April to 22 June called Croatian anti-fascist raving and, along the way, presented a number of facts, data and asked several questions. [[Specially enabled.]] Unfortunately, none of these questions were answered, but the fact that I put it out is a completely different picture of World War II and... Is it on again? The Second World War. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] So we don't have the true history of Croatian World War II. Instead, we have Yugoslav-Communist Partisan turbo folk history. That notion of turbo folk he's famous for something else. It is famous for music, and since it is clear to me and music I have held discotheques in my time, so I will explain the difference and similarity between turbo folk in Croatian history and turbo folk in music. The only other one comes from somewhere from the east and there's a little Eastern culture, charm, etc. However, the important difference is that turbo folk singers come politely to Croatia. When they are called upon, they sing their songs, and they do not seek exclusiveness. You in one place have Ace Lukas, in another, feel free to release Oliver Dragojevic or whoever you want. And mostly those stars come from Serbia, because these turbo-folkers domestically are half-way through anyway. However, turbo folk in history are your true stars in Zagreb at the Faculty of Philosophy. These are the three famous Karluses Klasic, Goldstein and Jakovina. That seems a little funny to you. I'm not kidding, I'm making fun of them. I'm really with them in free speech, I'm entitled to it because they're a moral, scientific, intellectual joke and a mockery, and I'm going to do so until they answer some of those questions and interpret a few of my thesis here. First, Mr. Goldstein will answer the question I asked him when he was such a barbarian, so primitively interrupted the stands. I asked him to explain to me how Joseph Broz, 19.10, became the secretary of all communists of Yugoslavia, then gave Hitler and Stalin away in Proleter and their destruction of Poland. Next, I told him to answer me and interpret what it was like to celebrate for 27.7 years as the Day of Resurrection, and today the money comes from the state budget to mark something, and you, so-called. The antifascists slaughtered 10,000 Croats, and only after half a year fired the first shot at Italian fascists when the Partisans of the Dalmatians came to them from Ugljan. This Marine where you're sitting sat on Sunday's Kujundzic next to me, a 12-year-old partisan bomber who told me that story. Next, I brought those books. By reading the book of Philip Khoen, I come across that data, or it can be found on the other side. Kočević, Gerjavić the victim, the victim of World War II. When I saw that 7,000 dead Kosovars, Albanians, were 6,000 Macedonians. Blacks that were less than enough than these two people four, five times as many dead. Croatians also die more, Serbs die more. After that, I come into the hands of Svetozar Vukmanovic's War for the Balkans and I find the answer why much less Macedonians died than these other peoples. There was no Broz and his people's liberation struggle. The Albanians also drove Mosha Pijada away when he came to them, failed to raise the so-called "Piyada". People's liberation battle and the people survived. When you compare the number of Bulgarians killed, Bulgarians 20,000 and Yugoslavs about a million. It's all Broz's hands. I'm very sorry, I'm a weak SDP team, because I'd like to dedicate these three folklores to yours, and you're capable of being a little bit of a champion. This champion of yours who commends Broz that Broz has joined Istria and Dalmatia Croatia. When Italy and Pavelic and Broz capitulated on 9th, they joined Istria. However, Pavelic was tested, silent, and Broz founded the National Liberation Committees and went into three wars, so all three wars in Istria were lost, and two and a half thousand people were killed in Istria, and about 20,000 were wounded. And Istra was to be released again for forty-five. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103572	Now it's on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103573	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, daily in the news are these actually wars in Ukraine is information about some bad forecasts waiting for the economy by the end of the year or what the economy is waiting for next year, so daily information that not only do indices fall on world markets, that certain announcements of the recession or interest collection are safe and given today's situation as well as where all these bad economic announcements are actually being made, but they are unfortunately looking at and feeling already in Croatia, and that somehow every month it is already measuring whether this inflation will be bi-digital, which all possible measures can actually be made, certainly is one additional security for entrepreneurs and citizens. The question is what will all of this, not to say one madness of all this information what we can do policy, what the Government, the Government does, I always said, without any modesty to also praise certain governments, but what is really waiting for us in the autumn is certain to have to pass the package of measures for citizens and for the economy and that what in these coming times is what is most important is the very clear communication of government members who are in charge of certain solutions, how to communicate certain crisis situations and that in these times, that this is not even more important than together with this package of measures because there are actually a number of hotelers and tourist employees will find themselves under strong pressure from the prices of electricity and money, that the whole hotel business in Croatia is going to eat their business, that we will eat the enormous collection of electricity, if two days ago it was announced from the tourist workers, and that over the key issues of the European money is important, and the key to the key key, so we need to make sure that the key business in Croatia, So it's very important, and why I'm saying it, because it's from the Croatian tourism sector it's actually sent a message that no one from the government is communicating with them about these measures, about these particular problems they have and how to end a certain season so clearly it's important to actually in that part and communicate how to help in this segment. Also, what we say is very important and a certain package of measures to be left behind and for autumn is this all that is announced or in fact everything that is actually coming is not good news and the government should certainly be prepared already for a certain package of measures and as regards helping citizens, as regards the non-taxable part of the income, and that this entry into the euro which is certainly positive for Croatia that Croatian citizens do not feel a great drop in standards because next year there will certainly be a fight to maintain the standard of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103699	Let's move on, colleague Lerotić, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103700	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the health reform story has been updated again these days. Some of the announced procedures in the future reform itself can now say that we definitely do not support it because we believe it will contribute to greater centralisation of the system, increased red tape, trombones, and ultimately cost everyone from patients to healthcare professionals. The problem of debt in health care is the subject of every budget and every budget rebalance. And then someone with imagination remembered to put all the hospitals under the state cap, even though we know that over 80% of all health debts are generated by the state hospitals right now. I have to admit very cleverly and wisely. Let me remind you, this month alone, the debt to large-scale drugs is going to grow by the new 400 to 500 million kuna, and that's the problem we've been talking about for years, and we see that none of the responsible solves the problem. But when we say 400 or 500 million kunas, we'll all agree that it really sounds like one enormous amount, not only sounds but it is, but often at least I do, and I believe that a lot of people sitting here can't even tell themselves what that amount is, so let's try a little differently. We can even imagine that only today, on June 14th 2022, the debt to large-scale drugs will grow by more than 13 million and 300 thousand kuna, just today. Even that's kind of hard to imagine. So then this 555 thousand kuna per hour, over half a million kunas are growing in debt per hour. It's one of the problems in which often. Another problem that almost no one is talking about, and I talked about it two months ago and last week, which is the problem of emergency medical assistance and the inaction of the Ministry of Health on the issue of these same staff, which is that they are allowed by the Emergency Medical Aid Act to benefit from the benefits of the benefits and the many other needs they have. To that level, they do nothing that the employees themselves wrote the law and took it to the Ministry of Health. We can talk about nurses, medical technicians who are currently missing about 4,000 according to some estimates. Except that the number of nurses and technicians is insufficient, the coefficient of the middle nurse and medical technician is very low. In primary healthcare offices, general or family, dental, paediatric and gynological coefficient is 0.951 and in the care of the house is as much as in the hospital system when talking about nurses and technicians. Therefore, a nurse who works at the infirmary at 15 years of employment and without tax relief or children receive a salary of 5,600 kuna, following an increase in the base of 4% that occurred on 1 May of this year. It is not surprising, therefore, that sisters can work abroad in their profession with much better working conditions or in Croatia to do other better paid jobs outside the profession and who do not have that amount of responsibility for the job of a nurse. It is certainly a major problem and a regulation on the coefficients they have been waiting for for for a very long time, which should address the question of the coefficients of the master's sisterhood which are now unrecognized in this system, unrecognizable. Only these few facts clearly state that the health care system is not good, the reform we hear about is not in the right direction and is not dealing with acute health problems, but by centralising the power in the health system. Essential problems of small wages, lack of doctors, nurses, medical technicians, other healthcare staff, long waiting lists and debts remain the same. And by the end of these five minutes, the debt to the majors has grown by 46,000 kuna. We can make it very clear that the Croatian health system is ill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103778	As the 9th speaker, Zurovec, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u103779	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's to very nice speeches, but also these books I see with my colleagues on the table I have to highlight one thing. Otherwise, the Estonian Prime Minister read to you about the economy as he said one book himself... It means freedom of choice to paraphrase like that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we talking about freedom for? Because within Croatia and the end-users and citizens, but unfortunately many of the companies that feed us do not have much freedom, unfortunately we still live in some relics of some last country, even though it is already a thick time and unfortunately we have not yet accepted those Western values as to the development of the economy itself, but also the development of society itself. When we have more than 1400 state-owned companies that are a good part of them losers and di practically every time after the election, it's looking at who's going to kidnap who's going to be assigned which company, we can't talk about any progress, but we're always spinning around in some way not to say that loop and we're not going forward. Finally today is mentioned among all these problems and health care, namely the least of our problems in the end even doctors and nurses, they will do what they are paid for, some less, some more, are the problem of course and private practices that often serve as some kind of post-exposure after being on duty within the KBC or some other institution. What's the biggest problem is that inside the HZZO basket you as the end user have no idea what you're paying for. In other words, if you get hurt right now when you walk down the stairs when you come down here to the assembly, you come to the hospital and what if your health insurance doesn't cover it. We need the real vacuuming of health care, we need the vacuuming of many services, and we need the state out of our citizens' pockets. The moment we have fewer state-owned companies, especially those who fail, and God is missing them, when we will have fewer fights about some ATMs like Plitvice Lakes and so forth. only then will we go forward, and by then we can wave here with books and files and talk about how we are very smart and how we are all wonderful and wonderful, but we should show our works and our course words that we want this Croatia to go forward and that we want simply Croatia that goes towards the future without living a full stop in the same hate and in the same past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115226	We are now going to our agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 286 The applicant is the Government under Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Before I give my word to the proposal's representative, Secretary of State Allen Gospić, we have a break. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115227	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with my associates, please hold for 10 minutes on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. It is a law that is extremely important, a law that you decided to go to emergency procedures and expected to be Minister Butkovic here. Therefore, I ask nicely that you grant a recess, so that Minister Butkovic may come from the neighborhood and be the one who will explain and answer the basic question number one. Why is this law in emergency procedures? Because we're late. So we should have incorporated the directive into our legislation there sometime by the end of 2020. Since we haven't done that, Croatia has been sued before the EU court for not doing its job and therefore we have to go to the emergency procedure and therefore we have to pass this law by June 30th and therefore not only is it sued, but it threatens and damages. Who will be responsible for this damage? Who's going to be responsible for what we're going to pay out of the budget because someone didn't do their job. So we here have laws that go mainly in two readings that I greet. Among the two readings, there may be some and good remarks that are built in and everything else. And then about one law that is extremely important, which is important to our fellow citizens, which is important to all of us. Corona has also shown that a stable electronic communication is important in order to have a stable signal, but on the other hand, it has also shown problems that have further problems with local self-government units and everything else in the construction, use of such infrastructure. And instead of the minister coming here as some others are coming, to give us the answer to this first question but also the answer to all the other questions, he keeps ignoring us. Minister, don't ignore the Parliament!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115228	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Now he'll explain the request for a break from his colleague Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115229	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on this very important electronic communications law. So far, I have made a proposal for changes to be like in Slovenia, to be three euros per metre, right on the way per metre. However, in the Republic of Croatia they even tried to reduce from 8 kuna to 2 and 40 while 90% of the network privatised to T-Com does not pay, i.e. Deutsche telecom doesn't pay in any of the funds or private people, nor has any natural person in the Republic of Croatia charged the right way from what we have installed from our money or our parents. I would say here only briefly that this was a prank, trying to trick her also to damages that occurred during construction, such as agglomerations to pay local self-government units. We didn't even let you do that. I did not allow you to reduce from 8 kuna to 2 kuna and 40 limes, and this is the very little you win in the EU, which is Deutsche Telecom, which is the only one you can only guess at, and that is why it is not Minister Butkovic here. Because he only works for such systems, because they're really obviously sponsors. I wonder why you threw out article 25. Why did you throw out local self-government units? Where it says that units of local self-government cannot protect the health of their people in the installation of antenna pillars and base stations. So stop us local self-government, you do what you want to do as your brother writes to you and how he writes to you the Mišetic Dynasty that rules with you, who manages the HT systems, the biggest winner. Why did you reject Article 25 that local self-government units have no right to decide anything? Where is it mentioned in the directive? Who's going to determine that? Deutsche telecom and the Misetic family where the base stations will be placed on hospitals, on nursing homes. Who's going to answer for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115230	Thank you very much. Thanks, buddy Bulj. [[Is it a shame?]] Comrade Bull, please! [[Intruder Bulj: And local self-government...]] Comrade Bull, please, let's stick to the weather. Comrade Boric, please. The apartment is approved. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115231	Thank you. So, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, I am also looking for a ten-minute break. So we need to point out the many conjectures this bill is making. Only e-consultation that lasted only 14 days, which is not according to any law, has pointed to a number of illogicalities. So, only when you look at how many municipalities and cities, including legal persons, and even natural persons reported with their comments, of course, that all of this together causes one fear. So, they're concerned about the future of those finances they've achieved so far, and on the other hand, they can potentially be damaged by all their locals living in the JLS area. On the other hand, this urgent procedure, which is not justified except by being late by the ministry itself because of the implementation of the EU directive, is now baffled, I have no better word for it than I am confused with this one reading, two readings that should have allowed a concrete public broad discussion. On the other hand, the issue of financial analysis is why we didn't get it. The bill's proposals are missing again. I would also ask whether any financial analysis has ever been made of how much HT has achieved, i.e. T-Com, so Deutsche Telecom, to be more specific, more precise extra profit than taking over majority ownership rights over HT because it did not pay for the use of the real estate of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the real estate managed by JLS and public road managers. So some concrete data in Croatia will never be found out. Also, under the veil of secrets, ownership of complete infrastructure has been taken over. Well, I must remind you that our parents built this infrastructure. and paid her very dearly. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115232	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Now, he'll explain the pause, the request for a break, explained by his colleague, Hajdash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115233	Thank you very much. So we're also looking for a break as a SDP representative club. Of course it's about the proposal for a law on electronic communications. But let's go back a little bit, a little bit into the past so I'd like to point out something that is absolutely unacceptable to me and incomprehensible. So, in 2012 or 2013, the so-called The first digital dividend where the state, the state, first received a billion kunas, then the state in the next few years was incometing between 650 and 700 million kunas, and that's what you're talking about. the use of radio frequency spectrum. I don't know why, but I'm going to say nothing, so today this fee of about 120 million kuna, so in the last four years, it's an extraordinary revenue of the budget, so the government of the Republic of Croatia oligopol, which is ruling in the Croatian market, has therefore reduced 10 times the fee, and why do I say 10 times? So I'm very careful. Because, in the meantime, the other digital dividend was introduced to the so-called so-called so-called "digital dividend". The telecommunications market and, in fact, a larger amount of spectrum is sold at a lower price, and that's the same as renting 1 kuna to the coast, as a maritime good. Or, say, those who draw water don't pay for anything. It's the same for you. Of course, the government's response would probably be in this way that we enabled teleoperators to invest more. No, gentlemen, you have provided the teleoperators with extra profit, so pure guessing of the oligopol on the Croatian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115234	The apartment is approved. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115235	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute party on behalf of the Focus Club and independent representatives, mostly because we point out certain problems that even occurred during the consultation, which is now being postponed, whose solution is being postponed. In fact, many renowned and Croatian companies that are related, whether to electronics or to telecommunications, have even written their suggestions, especially regarding cybersecurity and 5G, di practically said, well, we will deal with some rules and regulations later on. I really hope that's what's going to happen because if we're watching, if we're looking at our other companies that do business here for a few years, if they're eaten by foreign companies again, even if the market is such that they're gonna run us over sooner or later, from the east or from the west, we're going to have a huge communication problem. And why am I saying that about communication? Our other MPs pointed out this finely, our grandparents were working on a telecommunications network, they were doing telephony, they were doing everything alive, even optics, sometimes even for communicating between HEP as some kind of first instance. When you put it in the hands of strangers, how can you control the flow of information? What about some kind of national security? What if there's another war going on here, are we going to depend again on another people and whether the Germans will have mercy on us or not? That's one major problem. As far as these fees are concerned, it's an even bigger problem that when you.../incomprehensible/... the street in local self-government go to dig up and pave the infrastructure and then the telecoms come to you and they dig up and make your screws and they tear up the finished street. This is a much bigger problem in one town of Sinj and St. Sunday or Čakovec or any other, and the fees are ridiculously small. That part should also be seen through the law and that it is not at all in line with spatial planning, but not with regional self-government, especially with the counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115236	Thank you. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115237	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, as well as the rest of my colleagues and colleagues, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes and even more, but in the end, in order to warn of the fact that we cannot possibly agree with the urgent procedure of passing this Act. We cannot agree with the fact that only 14 days are allowed for e-Consultation, and in those 14 days as many as 7 cities and 53 municipalities have expressed their views with a special emphasis here, except of course the units of local self-government, I would like to highlight the very active participation of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association, which has made more than 30 remarks on this bill, of which 99% is not accepted. Once again, it is an urgent procedure due to delays in making and interpreting and accepting our legal system of the EU Directive of 2018. We are currently in a European court for this reason, so by the end of this month we have to make even more recent decisions, so here is the law, so that perhaps I am paraphrasing the law, in which part it states that the consumer has the right to terminate the contract without paying the penalty in case he is not satisfied with the quality offered by the service provider. Since we here in the Homeland Movement are absolutely not satisfied with the service they have given us in passing this Act, we, as a representative club, will withdraw from the debate on this bill, because we consider it absolutely imposed, not only on Croatian parliamentary representatives and MPs, but also on the Croatian public. We are withdrawing from this debate, we do not want to participate in this circus, and I call on respected colleagues and colleagues in the opposition to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115238	The apartment is approved. Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115239	Thank you, President-in-Office of the HS, for asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order for us to consult each other once again, but also to point out that we had just been in HS through the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government Thematic Session at which we have analysed and all of the comments we have received on this proposal of the Law that came in electronic form while it was in e- Consultation, and I must stress that the motioner adopted almost 60% of these remarks, and everything we have discussed in that session was practically taken into account in the adoption of this final proposal of the Law. I must also point out that there is always some thesis here that all units of local self-government are in conflict with teleopers. However, I come from a lot of rural parts of Croatia and many mayors and mayors would like to ensure their citizens that in the area of these municipalities they share all optical communications and have the same fast internet as in large cities and that the role of municipalities and cities is slightly different in these rural areas compared to large cities, there are many customers, where there are many citizens and where there are many connections to communication networks. That's why they're not just big teleopers, there are small teleopers who offer such services and are practically encouraged by the mayors and mayors to come and build networks in their area. But what's also very important, which is that the thematic session also adopted what was related to the association of cities, which is that the compensation for the right path to the next one is not changed. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115240	Thank you very much, and this break has been approved. We will still continue to work now, so I will call on another respected secretary of state, the respected Allen Gospić, to address, but I see the breach of the Rules of Procedure, just a second of the secretary of state, please welcome fellow Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115241	Thank you very much President-in-Office of the Assembly, you've injured the Rules of Procedure of HS if we don't have the effects of this harmful law, this is a serious law where local self-government is destroyed and taken away, which is basically what we have, it's our infrastructure, and... Local self-government is being seized. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would once again because of the seriousness and guessing teleopers constantly against the interests of people to withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115242	Comrade Bulj, you're getting a warning, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you used it to make your point, so you get this reminder. So, here's the Secretary of State, introduce the proposal for a final bill and fellow Totgergeli the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115243	Thank you, Your Honor, the Rules of Procedure of 238, my colleague Bulj deceives the entire Croatian public and insults us parliamentary representatives because he is telling the truth. It is not true that this bill damages JLS but quite the opposite is respected all their proposals, all their proposals, and what is most important in the urgent process of passing such a law we provide and withdraw 700m euros for the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly good for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115244	Thank you, fellow Totgergeli, the same, same thing as your colleagues, Bulja, you get a warning. Here's a second call from my colleague Bulj, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115245	And my colleague hurt his ankle. 238, he disrespects the parliamentary deputies. If it hadn't been for the reaction I'd have given it now would have been 8, instead of 8 kuna feet, those embarrassing 8 kunas, 2 kunas and 40 limes. Therefore, it would be huge damage for the Republic of Croatia about 300 million kuna, so the triba, you have been silent and waiting for what will happen, absolutely not, which is why, because of only the Misetic family and will now report to me as an outcast so that Plenkovic's snowflake, Boric, will protect you, so... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115246	A colleague, a colleague, a colleague of Bulj, you get a second warning and do not insult the MPs, it is not correct. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115247	Thank you very much. Art. 238, my colleague Bulj demeans us all because he's telling the truth here, it wasn't up to him, absolutely nothing, so there are associations, there are serious people who deal with politics and make decisions and there are these kind of mayors who can't even provide water for their citizens, so they want the state to pay for electricity, they can't solve basic problems, they can't solve the base stations that they said they'll solve as soon as they're mayors and now they'll transfer it to someone else, they're such mayors, they're incompetent and they'll deal with state policy. Locally elected, let him deal with the citizens of Sinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115248	As well, you got also a warning, this was a replica. You too, Mr. Grmoe, will be the one who's hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115249	He's been injured. 238, with those who do not care about the interests of the citizens, you cannot be different from the pressure, just like that, my colleague Bulj has pressed you to start or allow a project of agglomeration in the town of Sinj, and my colleague Bulj is very much solving the problems of the citizens because he is the only mayor who has solved his kindergarten in Sinj in a year, it would be good to get rid of things so quickly in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115250	You also get a warning from your colleague, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, I hope that the moment has come and that Honorable Secretary of State Allen Gospodic explains the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115251	President-in-Office HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you today is the Final Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, which is adopted in the Croatian legislation by Directive 2018/1972 of the European Parliamentary Council of 11 December 2018 and on the European Code of Electronic Communications, which represents the codification and comprehensive reform of the EU regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications. The new law will allow the rapid development of electronic communications networks to ensure the necessary connectivity and availability of a network of very high capacities including fixed, mobile and wireless networks, and their use by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as entrepreneurs. Further development of competition is also expected in both the area of infrastructure and services through the provision of conditions for new investments in electronic communications networks and services. The fundamental objectives of this law aim to achieve this law are to promote investment and further develop connectivity and establish high-speed electronic communications networks, and to create conditions for the introduction and development of 5G networks, strengthen competition and bring consumer rights across Europe to a maximum level of choice of services with concrete and competitive prices, to ensure equal access to disabled persons, to maintain an existing market regulation mechanism by an independent regulatory body, with a view to limiting the pre-regulatory regulation to strictly necessary areas, effective, efficient and coherent use of radio frequency spectrum, address and number of spaces, maintaining the security of electronic communications networks and services necessary for the regular functioning of the economy and society in whole with a particular emphasis on the protection of national critical infrastructure. For the first time, the proposed law will regulate the following issues, the possibility of determining the obligations of operators that have not been subject to regulation so far, and services are provided via the Internet without their own network of infrastructure, such as Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook, Messenger etc. The process of assessing the safety of the manufacturer and the supplier of electronic communications equipment, thereby implementing a strategic measure from the EU cybersecurity package 5G network, safety risk assessments shall determine the risks to national security in accordance with the implementing rules to be adopted under this law. Legal basis for the collection and electronic exchange of necessary data to applicants for the conclusion of subscription contracts, therefore our natural persons of the consumer, exclusively for the purpose of assessing their payment capacity, thus ensuring the objective of general interest for the Republic of Croatia relating to reduced number of debtors, the amount of their debt, and thus the reduction of the total number of blocked debtors in the country. A new mechanism that will allow for more effective dispute resolution and the removal of harmful interferences that prevent the use of harmonised radio spectrum in the area of the Republic of Croatia in the process of harmonising the frequency of radio frequency between the EU and EU Member States as well as with third countries. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council with regard to the application of this Regulation. During the public consultation on the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications as well as on the basis of the meeting of the Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Board, it was aimed at regulating the provisions on the right path and the level of compensation for the right path. After the analysis of 133 comments received in public consultation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted just over 60% of them, including all comments relating to the fixing of compensation for the right time, which means that the amount of compensation for the right time in this law is not reduced or limited. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this law is a legal measure from the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the takeover and implementation of the EU acquis for 2022, but also one of the indicators on NPOO 2021-2026. NPOO. That indicator should be completed by 30 June '22. in order to pay the full amount of the second NPOO financial envelope of 700m euros, which is an absolute political and economic priority for the Republic of Croatia. The Government therefore proposes to the HS the adoption of the Law on Electronic Communications by emergency procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115252	Thank you, too. Stay here. You have a 15. First up, Comrade Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115253	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I'm curious as to why it took you four years to pass the law when we know that it should have been passed since 2018, so here we are waiting for the last hour of five to twelve to pass the law. The consultation lasted very briefly, there were many applications primarily of cities and municipalities that feared that they would not be lifted from that fee for the use of the road. On the Committee on Regional and Local Self-Government, I heard that you would accept all these remarks and that it would remain as it was. I don't know why it might not be possible to raise the cities and municipalities a little bit of extra profit since it's all coming together in Croatia, so we could raise that fee for the right way, since all operators in Croatia are doing well, they have more millions of profits and I'm curious that it remains that you won't take down any of the cities and municipalities and such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115255	I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representative for the matter. Well, the question is very complex, it's an extremely complex 186 article law. We have over the past three or four years not only through public debate but through consultations of other bodies, through cities, municipalities, associations analyzed this law, primarily on your question of the right pathway. We have found that in most European countries there is no compensation for the right path, so in most countries there is no compensation for the right path, and in those in which it exists it is indeed minimal. It is the share in the funding of local self-government units of 0.01, 0.2 depends on which state. For us, this is true in local self-government units, some other value is much higher. Even though this law went in counseling itself. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115256	In a minute, try to say what needs to be said. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115257	Your Honor, Secretary of State. The law is called the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, but here in the article means art. In 55, I didn't find any mention of Starlink in the chapter of electronic communications infrastructure. You know what this is about? So, since 5.11.2021. Everyone in Croatia can buy the Starlink device for a few hundred dollars and connect to the Internet or we have one electronic service provider working outside the legal framework, it's about Elon Musk, it's about SpaceX. I also checked in, came by mail here. I can forward it to you where I can connect tomorrow via STARLINK on the Internet. Speeds are fantastic, from 200, 100 to 200 megabits per second, why didn't we put it in this bill, why is someone out of control working in Croatia and selling Internet services?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115259	Thank you very much for this matter, Mr. Assembly... I will say that on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on this matter, the Law on Electronic Communications is implemented by the Agency itself, means the Agency, if it determines certain irregularities, it implements and prosecutes them and sanctions them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, I think it is a good question that, within your question, an additional question is being asked to the Agency itself in some debate which, I believe, is also covered by the regulatory issues of HACOM itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115260	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115261	Thank you. A significant set of questions related to mobile frequency management, i.e. future 5G and similar networks, were mentioned in the introduction. How much do we earn as a community from selling this common good to operators, and I am interested, at 20 and over, and are these prices adjusted for purchasing power and the number of households and potential users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115263	Dear MPs, too, thank you for asking. It is also a free market, a free competition market, at any moment operators may report to the competition, today as mentioned in the debate by counterpart Doncic some time ago, this amount was from the use of the 2023 radio frequency, about 450, not billions, or as much as you mentioned but 450 million kuna. Today he is on the free market, meaning by public auction a year ago, about a year and a half ago is only 76 kuna, 76 million kuna for a period of 15 years, not 20 but 15 years. The incentive, the aim of all of this, let's say, of this public tender, is to enable operators to participate with local self-government units and invest in these processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115264	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115265	Thank you, yes, the operators... rural areas, it's perfect, we'll see in a few years, but it's my question whether it's going to apply the new rulebook, whether it's going to come to a telecom or not. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you want to pay more or less for the right path, that means by the rule about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For local administration and self-government units, that's my question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115266	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115267	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I'll explain the statutes of the right path. It should be stressed that the law distinguishes the right path on the existing infrastructure from the right to travel on the new infrastructure. In both cases, the right path should be seen as a reserve legal instrument. The reserve legal instrument applicable where operators and owners have failed to resolve property legal relations. So this Law primarily encourages owners and operators to use the usual means of solving the property pathway. As I have pointed out in the headline, the compensation for the right path will be arranged by a rule that goes beyond this law. The law would stipulate that that regulation should be adopted within a year, and I believe that during that period all those interested in right-of-way compensation will participate in this debate in, on the making of a Regulation with HAK.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115268	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115269	I would like to thank the chairman, therefore respected, of this law in the Croatian legislation, for adopting a European directive which expired on 21 December 2020 because of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has received notice of the EU Commission's decision to press charges against the EU Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a breach of the provisions on the functioning of the EU. This is one of the arguments that you are referring to as an emergency procedure in which you put this proposal, but in which it is also publicly denied for a quality discussion according to this very important proposal of the Law. Well, isn't that actually abuse of emergency procedures and that's because of the negligence in your ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115270	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115271	Thank you very much, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Well, I'll be very brief and repeat myself. So this law doesn't work for two months, it's been analyzed closely for three years. All who are involved in this Law in any way or are involved, know well what is changing in the law. The truth is that the deadline was the end of 2020, we have further analyzed the right path in this period, which is the key part concerning this Law and decided that we will not change it at this time. The EU Commission is well aware of the procedure, and is also aware that the law is passed in accordance with this procedure, that it will be adopted by the end of this month, i.e. to be voted by the end of this month. I doubt there'll be any sanctions on that matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115272	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115273	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, here, the foundation of today's, the beginning of our debate that the opposition again for its own reasons tries to present this law in a way that hurts local self-government. Once again, please decoded response. In this Act, in these amendments and additions to the Law, are contained elements that will enable a sublegal act that will be passed by an independent agency of HACOM, to do what they expect to reduce funds to local self-government, to immediately remove it at the outset because it will mark the whole debate. And the second question, we have local leaders here, and everyone's talking about optics and fast Internet, etc. How much funding is currently available for this situation in every local self-government, in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115274	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115275	Thank you very much, MP. On the contrary, this Law connects units of local and regional self-government with operators and with the Agency. This Law will enable operators to point to the future of what operators are investing in so that the state can see more clearly in which they have to invest better and better quality in order to define these network speeds and 5G network at their level tomorrow and in most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So there's no saying that in any way, units of local self-government are excluded from making such decisions. On the contrary, we want operators, local self-government units and the agency in one place to develop more quality means this telecommunications system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115276	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115277	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, the Ministry of Spatial Planning sent the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on simple and other buildings and works to the e-consultation on 7 June. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That Regulation itself does not comply with Article 25. The e-communication law that's also in session today. I wonder if you're involved in this and if you've been involved as a ministry in the adoption of a regulation like this since we think he's wrong because he's opposed to spatial planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115278	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115279	Thank you very much, Madam Parliamentarian. Of course, with all the bodies and other bodies, except the units of local self-government and representatives of other ministries, the ministry participated on several occasions, composed, changed, coordinated, and on several occasions, and stressed that the law is extremely complex, touching all segments of society. Of the units of local self-government, the Ministry of Construction, services that are also involved in this, the ministry itself, which is deeply involved in the whole process. This law must also be seen in advance with other EU members. So that everything that has been done in the law is almost commensurate with all bodies, with all units of local self-government, and today we have a law that fully corresponds to the EU and other members performs interoperability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115280	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115281	Thank you very much. I warned here and now there are changes to the spatial plan in the town of Sinj that HACOM is doing as Telecom commands. I'm an example. gave certain restrictions when setting the base stations. The same is true in Zagreb, it is similar in Istria, but also in Sinj a negative opinion. Well, we're in the same country now because this HACOM is working in the interest of teleoperators, and it's not a regulatory agency, and you're like the ministry in that. I want to know why you took away the article by deleting Article 25 of the right of units of local self-government to protect the health of people in the installation of base stations rather than putting it in place to secure a network of base stations, and we in local self-government are absolutely irrelevant. Then best you bring lipo spatial plans, units of local self-government wipeout, you don't need And that's it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So you're guessing exclusively teleopers... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115282	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115283	Thank you so much for asking this question, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. As for the questions that have been referred, and it is related to the radiation of the base stations, I will point out first of all the following. When setting up base stations, operators are obliged to take measures that do not carry out themselves individually but are in charge of particularly accredited independent companies. So that after that is due data and the speed of the base stations and the ratio of the base stations to the agency itself that checks if there is any doubt or so far I do not know that there have been any such outbursts or any unplanned situations, means the agency will ultimately, if there are any irregularities to determine the actual state of the base stations in relation to the operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115284	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Comrade Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115285	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State comes from an area where many units of local self-government both their citizens and their leaders would like to have faster Internet than they have at this point. And we would like to build their leaders there networks that will provide the speeds they provide in the centre of Zagreb. In order for them to succeed, I am actually interested in what this bill means for such units of local self-government and what local self-government units can do to build new networks even faster and faster in these areas, whether optical or 5G a new network.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115287	Thank you very much, MP, for this matter. I'll be very clear. So it is precisely this law that allows units of local self-government, and in particular it gives tasks to operators that their future perspective of network development must be delivered to the Agency in the coming period. The Agency will have insight into the full coverage of the network, which so far has not been an obligation or obligation in which such areas will be invested in the next period as far as the network is concerned. This is an ideal opportunity, perhaps one of the best opportunities to be from a very short time of course, from public funds under that thought and European funds, agency, operators find models that precisely those speeds on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in those parts that are not covered enough or the speeds are not enough just this way and cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115288	Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115289	Thank you. Dearly esteemed, just to relate to some of the things you've said. Otherwise, the base station radiates about a million times less than these cell phones you've got around you right now and that you're carrying in your pockets, just for technical purposes, so you know what this one's talking about. Furthermore, I was informed that, within the consultation and within the communication with your ministry, some renowned Croatian companies who employ very many people especially from the field of communication have sent their comments about the article. 55th and cybersecurity, so I'm wondering if maybe you've already got something to follow, of course, towards bankruptcy... which will be covered in the rulebook, I'm strictly interested in, that's one thing, and I'd mention a huge problem about spatial planning because mostly operators avoid respecting these things for simple buildings or the like, in other words, the base station on wheels is coming up, and then it's like a mobile building, and that way it's avoided, we have a huge spatial plan mess that can't even... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] at regional level, let alone local. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115290	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115291	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian, for asking the question. I'll explain it a little bit more clearly once more. So when building infrastructure, operators have to comply first and foremost with all the rules, that's unequivocal. The protection of human health is explicitly stated in several provisions, and the levels of radiation are prescribed, so they are prescribed not by this law but by the existing health ministry regulation and within the limits that fully comply with EU standards. Okay, let's move on. We think that the provisions of this law will introduce more clarity into spatial planning and allow for greater protection of human health, the desired level of coverage, this law creates conditions for the development of 5G technologies, but not at the cost of human health, and I will stop there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115292	Here you go, Comrade Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115293	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, there is one deep contradiction in your insistence that you are 3 years old. You carefully prepared and analyzed everything, that you did not know how many times you said how complex the law is, and after such preparation you still decide not to go to the right public debate in the right of two readings, that the thematic session took place later, because it is said that there will be more important to reduce tolls and travel fees between, services and ultimately it is approved, but people also know in Zagreb what quality it is and where the Internet is fast when it is, and what happens when it falls and what damages are and what breaks are in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115295	Thank you, first of all, for the comment, the debate and the proposal and the initiatives that took place within 3 or 4.g. I'll point out it was three years ago. The same Parliament's Committee on Local Self-Government had this topic on the agenda and on the basis of this debate and we went into deep analysis and another sentence, when a good debate is not needed, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115296	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115297	My dear secretary, for this law should be a really good debate, an extensive debate, there are a lot of problems. The first question is how do you think to force operators to develop a network in the rural area, in which way, don't just answer the 5G network because that's not the answer, we know what range of 5G network, I'm not talking about, I'm not talking about radiation at all, about disease and everything else, it's depase. So far we know new, new base stations radiate much less and that's not a problem, but the problem is that actually the range of these 5G base stations is much smaller and different than the cell so far, so we can't talk about it, but you can't order the operator to work in some rural part because it's a profit organization, so how do we force them to do that, that's the first question. The second question is about functionality and today we have a problem both in populated cities and places with speed and people are going from these cities to others where there are higher speeds that they can do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115298	Thank you, fellow Pavić. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115299	Thank you very much for asking the question, Mr. Parliamentarian. It is precisely this law that will make the popularity and visibility that are rural areas, let's call rural areas, in the interest of developing the Internet to get higher speeds because so far it was not an operator's obligation to show the future of its plans and development. This allows us, as the Republic of Croatia, to make it possible for JLS, operators and the state to find models to develop in the future. So this is an ideal opportunity for all JLS together with the HAK to see this, this graphic where that need is to improve the network and where this public, public service is, or where that service is most needed. What's more important to say that, surely you're right that private operators won't go where there isn't, but with the state they'll get the conditions to develop networks... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115300	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Glavasevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115301	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I hope that you joked about the fact that the debate is not necessary, given that, without a debate, only sometimes cardinals or holy fathers are chosen by acclaiming sometimes in theory, in practice, votes are also being voted on, this but also this law need to be discussed because there are things that we have questions about, let's say, one of them is the resolution of the president and members of the council in the conditions that you have prescribed, let's say, one thing is that, that Parliament solves on the government's proposal, but why wouldn't the assembly have the opportunity to resolve the members and without the government's proposals, there are premise circumstances in which it would be good. It is also stated in the terms and conditions, for example. a powerful verdict, but also an obstacle to the conduct of duty for a longer period than 6 months, a man can end up in an investigative prison for 3 months, he can't act on his duty, it's definitely a condition to relieve him even though he doesn't have the power to rule, I don't know if you could comment on this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115302	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115303	Thank you very much, MP, for asking this question. As you know, the government gives consent to the agency's statutes, so it's secured all, all surveillance of the agency itself. As regards the resolution of members of the Council or of the President of the Council, that is to say, the provision of legal protection in the case of an earlier resolution is explicitly provided for in Directive 2018/172 on the European electronic communications law. It is, then, not that, but the directive accurately prescribes a way of resolving members or presidents of the Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115304	And the last replica of my fellow Shimičević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115305	I thank the president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We can agree that operators in Croatia do a good job, make a multimillion-dollar profit and that they should not be mourned. Here we have heard different views on this bill and now it is indeed up to you to convince both of us MPs and of all the Croatian public in the justification of this bill. I am interested in whether or not the local self-government leaders participated in the drafting of this law and were they satisfied with this law after all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115306	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115307	Thank you very much for this question, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Clearly, the leaders and representatives of the associations of cities, the unit of the regional self-government, this is a key issue for them because it concerns the rights that they exercise under this law and that is the foundation not only of this but also of those rights which will be realised in the future which at this moment have no intention of changing as it has been tried to imply it. They were deeply present in all the legal process, not only of the ministry, not only of the bodies, not only of the service, but of all the units of regional and local self-government. Thank you so much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115308	I thank the Secretary of State. We've come to an end with replicas, so I'm asking him to return to his post. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, a respected colleague, Totgergeli, will speak to the vice-president of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115309	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed the proposal in question as an interested working body, even on two occasions, once at a thematic session and once at a regular session. At the thematic session, among other conclusions, we also concluded that the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government proposes to amend the provisions of Art. In the draft draft law on electronic communications on the right of way, 61 to 65, the applicant shall consider and take into account the views of the committee, the observations and proposals of associations as represented by the interests of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government as well as the comments received in the public consultation process. And secondly important, the Committee supports the position of HACOM at the panel's thematic session to stop the draft Regulation on amendments to and additions to the rules on implementation and compensation for the right of way in the section relating to the level of compensation for unclassified roads. I must stress that we have reached these conclusions on the board unanimously. At a meeting today, among other things, the promoter stressed that this bill aims to boost investment and further develop connectivity and establish high-speed electronic communications networks and create preconditions for the introduction and development of 5G networks, strengthen competition and bring consumer rights into line across the EU. In the discussion, the committee members pointed out that the issues relating to the regulation of the provisions on the right path and the level of compensation for the right path, in particular thanked the proposer for respecting and all that was proposed at the the thematic session and for putting it into the final draft of the law. And after the debate, I must again point out that the board members unanimously supported this draft of the electronic communications law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115310	Thank you, too. I'm opening a formal hearing now. The first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Fellow Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115311	This law would be correct to withdraw, not go in to go in two readings. I can state a number of reasons, so the first reason he immediately had was to use HACOM's rules, and this law also cut from 8 kuna to 2.40 lip straightway units of local self-government which are millions of amounts. Also the largest part of the infrastructure owned by HPT... Croatian mail and telecommunications i.e. The state and went into possession of Deutschetelecom illegally, of course, and they very little charge for the right of service, I think a very small part of the right path. I gave that law. In other countries, it's arranged differently. 90% of infrastructures do not pay either physically or legal persons for this reason, and I have proposed to the board because I also raised my voice immediately when I saw that this was collected to be paid naturally in one special fund if property relations... the biggest profits in the EU have Deutschetelecoma in the Republic of Croatia 42%, so it is only a bargain. Another very important thing is that that is why they fought and what they intended in certain works to cause damage to local self-government units in that infrastructure. They don't pay, and that's what they've been trying to do with cities and municipalities. Of course, I've been there... and I've been voting all along. When setting up antenna pillars and base stations of the local self-government unit, there is no respect for the spatial plans of city councils, no respect for their objections and HACOM brakes, let's say in the town of Sinj the development of the city of Sinj, because they want to set base stations wherever they think of it so that the base station is now larger than the largest building in the town of Sinj, it is the Zvnik of the wonderful Lady of Sinj, literally they would put the bell towers, they tend to cultural goods. I think we can see this countless examples, so the local self-governments from this system are thrown out, so you're laughing there reading pictures, the concerns of Minister Butkovic, he's playing Brussels in Slovenia 9, he's like that, he's cute so he'll probably have these good relationships, he likes to sit on Tresate, Brisquel and what's played, a colleague Klaric knows in your neighborhood. I would only say once that this is the only thing we can do and that would be fair, to withdraw great damages, mainly for local self-government units, huge damages, and for natural persons I won't even talk about. So this one. 25 would have to mean well, I don't mean to think, but you simply took away the powers of the local self-government units to even participate in any debate on the protection of people, we can talk about meaning, non-radiation, but it's not comfortable when at the hospital base station or hospital, when they're on cultural goods, when institutions, kindergartens, schools, we know that the EU also requires a little more Wi-Fi talk about how children use it, because... which are health impacts, it's nothing made up, you can do it, you can do it, you and the obligation even the Ministry of Education to put on your site, this is the exclusive advantage of teleoperators, this has been done together means HACOM was and was in HT, the Misetic family, I said, too much influence of the Misetic family on this government, it is also known that the prime minister is under great influence and this is, purely guessing the teleoperate that has the greatest profit in the EU in the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, 42%. Absolutely as far as the right path, the right of service, I've given the law three times in the procedure, it didn't come to the agenda, now it's in the procedure, Mr. President, which is why it's not on the agenda that teleopers pay as much as in Slovenia? So I ask you once again, first of all, to have Minister Butkovic come, and secondly, withdraw this Law, don't force this, because believe me, you'll do a lot of damage in the long term, and as far as telecommunications is concerned, they've been done by privatising the damage enormous. These are even greater damage to local self-government, as far as European funds are concerned, and this favours the most teleoperators to build optical infrastructure. I've been welcomed by some kind of project, too, and now I'm analyzing it, and it won't be owned by a local self-government unit, but it's getting into HT. So I don't know what to... If you're working a new one, it won't take the resources, if we're working, then we're back on the key to national security, we're giving a foreign teleoper to control our traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again, withdraw this Law, think carefully, nothing means a month, some things have changed under pressure, but changed, and what you are doing is a disaster for the interests of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115312	We're going to the 2nd debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, will speak to a respected colleague, Hajdas Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115313	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, that is correct, transposes Directive No. 1972 from 2018 to Croatian legislation or so-called The Directive European Code of Electronic Communications, therefore the Communications Code, and this is exactly the one that has been amended, but has also united 4 previous directives relating to the work of telecommunications companies, i.e. telecom and most often with access to a mobile phone network they sell and access the Internet, so-called. ISPs, therefore Internet service providers or electronic communications operators for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are A1 and HT or Deutsche Telekom. Now we come to the first problem, which is that the EU Parliament and the Council adopted the Code on 11 December 2018, and the deadline for the transposition of this Code, i.e. The Directive in Croatian legislation expired on 21 December 2020, and I would like to stress that an action against the Republic of Croatia has been brought against the EU court, all of which is stated in the light of the short duration of public consultation in this proposal by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Also, as state secretary Allen, Mr Allen, pointed out, the adoption of this Directive into Croatian legislation by 30 June of this year is one of 25 indicators that the Republic of Croatia must fulfil in order to submit so-called a request for payment of the second installment of the National Plan, mentioned by one HDZ representative of 700m euros. Why has it waited so long, and why has the public debate been shortened? Because unfortunately, and so do colleagues from HDZ, so the Croatian government functions exclusively on one person, and that is Mr Plenkovic, who actually decides on everything, so it is easy for him, to say it to a girl like that, a jam, like jam and a lot of other things. This Directive, which was unfortunately adopted and Croatia did not implement it until 21 December 2020, is part of the European strategy of the common market to which the Republic of Croatia belongs, which speaks about the single digital market. If you remember who followed a little, it's still so-called. Was Juncker's commission, and at that point Nelly Cruz, so one Dutch woman actually conducted the first procedure, so-called. digital adenadas or looking for digital champions. And of course, the EU as the EU, bureaucratized more than Croatian bureaucracy, always gives you some three key concepts. So they put on 3 buzzwords which are called European competence, involvement and she to me the dearest, digital future, whatever that means. Now, only this single digital market is put into three so-called three so-called so-called digital markets. It's coming. One approach is to increase EU citizens' access to digital goods and services, so through harmonisation, digital trade, copyright regulation, VAT, etc. The second pillar includes the promotion or promotion of the growth of the digital economy and the service that is famous for such a function in Croatia, it has a very bad user interface, and it is called e-Citizens, I think most MPs and representatives in the assembly probably hope and use this platform of e-Citizens who is definitely the demode of Croatia. And the third pillar is an environment or an environment, which is actually how and how to improve digital networks, internet services in something that is most important in the 21st century, and that is data security, investment and transmission speed that are extremely important for citizens and also for businesses. Now that last column I mentioned is the focus of this directive or the code. Why? I agree with that, I believe that the digital economy is also crucial to economic competitiveness in the future, and there are no European companies here, but for the front or American or Asian companies, therefore based in those countries. So there's something called something called, and I'm going to call it economic terminology oligopol, it's so-called. Great Five, Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook, Dash, Meta and Microsoft and there are some Chinese and Korean giants. In the eighth year of the implementation of this strategy, I will now say at the EU's macro-level, the question arises whether the EU has actually succeeded in this, or has the Telecom market actually become unfortunately an oligopol, and has the Member States and citizens become more of a problem than it has solved? Is Croatia going to achieve the goals itself by 2025, and these are the goals of a gigabit society, or are we going back to a period of 20 years ago because that history is reversible, when privatising parts of cable infrastructure is being prepared, and when the older ones here know, one of the main ones, and this is called in a narrative policy is actually whether the state can't build new faster networks itself and we need private investors to modernise it. What happens now? It happens that private investors do not want to invest in rural areas, and in fact the government is asking them to speed up this modernisation and then reduce the use of radio spectrum as I have noted in this first part of my exposure. Now, how does Croatia stand with access to communication networks? So according to Eurostat data that are official, so Croatia had 77% of the public access to the internet a few years ago while the EU average was 84% at the time. Now we're at the same source, so it's Eurostat at 86%, and the European average is now 92%. So, what's also visible we're telling you exactly here I drew the third from behind, there are only our under quotes behind our still friends Bulgarians. On the other hand, what do we have? We have the leading operators on the fixed network market holding 72% of the total Croatian market, 72%. So we're not even talking about oligopol here anymore, so I'm sorry about not talking about oligopol, so 72%. The key, therefore, to be implemented in a shortened public debate procedure, means from 29 April to 13 May it was a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the regulations that came of course from municipalities and cities which see in this proposal that more consideration was given to the interests of operators for the use of their spatial resources than to the interests of municipalities, cities and their cities at that time of their original income. I'll leave a few questions for all of us. Is this new regulatory framework, does it refer to frequency management or to folk speaking about cell phones and future 5Gs or a similar network? Time will show its own. How much will we make as a community from selling this common good to operators for 20 years and more? So it's the same as renting the coast for a meter or allowing for free draining of drinking water. Are these prices adjusted for purchasing power and the number of households or potential users and are they comparable to other countries? Statistics are such a set of very interesting data. You should be very careful when we analyze. In order to achieve my question, and how do I appreciate it better, and perhaps even if the ministry were to convince the public of suspicion and conjecture, and especially in areas where the radio spectrum stepped in at the subtly organised auctions, where auctions were supposed to be public, and the power of a small number of very influential entrepreneurs offers a possible answer as to why in Croatia I did not show with these charts that actually concern the oligopoly in Croatia. Thank you, Mr. President, for four seconds of extra time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115314	Please, I'm generous. Now on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia... That's because you promoted me, and I have to be generous. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative Ruzica Vukovac on behalf of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115315	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, so we learned an unusual piece of information in the context of the motion to pass this law by an urgent procedure. By 30 June 2022, the Republic of Croatia must meet a number of indicators from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the period from 2021 to 2026, one of which is the adoption of the Law on Electronic Communications as part of the reform of the legislative framework, which will allow for the strengthening of connectivity as the basis for the digital transition of society and the economy. Since the timely fulfilment of those indicators is an absolute political and economic priority, the above-mentioned deadline cannot be extended because it is a prerequisite for the payment of the amount of the second war of financial resources under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the applicant considers that it is particularly justified for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure. However, since this law in the Croatian legislation adopts EU Directive No 2018/1972 and the deadline for the adoption of this Directive into national legislation has expired even as we heard from December 21st 2020. The Republic of Croatia, meanwhile, has received notice of a decision by the European Commission to file an action before the EU Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Articles 258 and 260(3). The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU for the purpose of not providing for national measures to adopt that Directive into national legislation. The ministry also sees a strong enough argument which has left both readings in one way and thus made it impossible for the quality of the debate to be discussed to the public of interest, and the public interested in this proposal is indeed very much. Resuming only comments on the e-consultation procedure, by the way, which is reduced to a minimum of minimum which is not even in accordance with the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations because it lasted only 14 days. We see how truly concerned are the numerous municipalities and cities, that they will, of course, remain without their rights and indirectly citizens themselves. Seven cities have expressed their concern. As many as 53 municipalities responded and suggested their comments and suggestions, 7 legal persons and 10 natural persons commented. Within the chapter of electronic communications infrastructure, it is obvious that the Ministry, HACOM and Croatian Telecom seem to have a simple provision on the use of real estate through the right of way and provisions on the transfer and protection of electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment for the purpose of carrying out works or building a new building change in a rather suspicious and suspicious way for the benefit of the company Hrvatski Telecom, and for the enormous financial damage to the Republic of Croatia, units of local, regional self-government, companies whose founders are owners of the Republic of Croatia, then units of local, or regional self-government and investors. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The electronic communications law is prescribed if it is necessary to protect or relocate electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment for the purpose of carrying out works or building a new building of an investor of works or buildings is required to ensure, on its own cost, the protection or transfer of electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment built in accordance with this law and specific regulations. Otherwise, the cost of protecting or moving her is borne by an infrastructure operator. The investor shall not bear the cost of protecting or moving electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment if the electronic communication infrastructure and other related equipment is not built in accordance with the building and spatial arrangements regulations. Therefore, the cited article is in line with the construction and spatial arrangements. A building that is not built in accordance with building regulations and spatial arrangements is illegal and does not exist in space. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The draft laws do not comply with the construction and spatial arrangements rules but the infrastructure operator only regulated the use of the properties on which its infrastructure was laid, which is still not built in accordance with the construction and spatial arrangements rules, so it is not legal. Electronic communication infrastructure and other related equipment of the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. not built in accordance with the construction and spatial arrangements regulations. It was built without an act approving the construction, i.e. the use of the building. For this reason, any investor in the Republic of Croatia would be forced to take on the costs that can be measured in millions of kunas to protect or move the infrastructure of the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. which is located in the area of investment operations, which is built without an act approving the construction, or use of the building. The legislator recalls that the legislator has just passed the Law on the legalisation of illegally built buildings. It is publicly known that the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. has illegally built infrastructure and network. In view of the above, it is evident that in one malicious and perfidious and highly speculative way the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. It is interesting that the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. and a member of the working group for the draft of this bill. So who makes us laws? Customer-owned companies? It is not clear why the ministry is proposing provisions of laws that are contrary to construction regulations. The proposed article does not explain what investment financed by public and European funds is particularly for large infrastructure investment projects such as railway reconstruction, the construction of new public and unclassified roads, agglomeration projects, so new municipal, water-communal infrastructure, etc. In such projects, investors who are either a Republic of Croatia or a unit of local or regional self-government or a company owned or whose founding Republic of Croatia and a unit of local (regional) self-government must not and are not allowed to take any illegal cost because the application of financial penalties for project holders is taking place. There are a number of examples where holders of such projects are punished by millions of euros in fines. In addition to the proposed amendments, the ministry has not explained what with projects where investors are not property owners, e.g. As an independent legal entity, such as in the case of investor obligations, it is unclear what the impact on their project is on the fact that the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. Has he solved the right path with the owner of the property? Amendments submitted in Art. 61st century 4 and 5th drafts of the Law on Electronic Communications go so far as to discriminate and distort the definition of investors in the building regulations, so to the investor in section 4, they apply one rule, and to the investor in section 5, so the investor is either a natural or legal person of another rule. The motives and intentions of the proposed amendments to this law in the way proposed by the Ministry are clear, the changes go directly in favour of the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. at the expense of co-investors who are primarily then the Republic of Croatia, or units of local or regional self-government or owned companies, or whose founders are once again, and whose units are local and regional self-government, and which are contrary to building regulations with direct legal and financial consequences for investors and their owners. Any amendment to the rules requires the financial impact of the amendments and gives too much justification which is obligations, which the ministry's obligations have not actually been implemented again in this case. In the light of the changes, it has a major financial impact on investors, the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government and companies owned or founded by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government while the ministry therefore hides both the justification and the financial analysis. For such a proposed amendment, the ministry was obliged to deliver opinions from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Ministry of Economy, then bodies that play an intermediate role such as SAFU and others. Since I don't have much time to finish, I'd just like to defuse the esteemed secretary of state. In fact, there is a public study by the Institute of Economics in Zagreb titled "Analytic Provisions for Right Pathways for Electronic Communication Infrastructure", which shows that compensation is still paid in other Member States, not in all, and is not as negligible as you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115316	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the Honorable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115317	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an emergency procedure for the proposal of the Electronic Communication Act. I, in principle, think that there are cases and conditions where emergency procedures are necessary, in principle I think that it should be exceptional, I have nothing against emergency procedures, but something I have and what I'm going to say clearly is next. We get a series of laws here that have the same P.Z. code. which go into two readings where we don't even have the difference between the first and second readings and we're doing it neatly, and this is a law that's very classy, very important we have in the emergency procedure and now we're asking ourselves why? Because the ministry did not do its job, because the ministry did not respect the deadlines and because what it did before the parent board and also in front of other committees on which it was, and also the State Secretary said that Croatia was sued by the EU court for failing to install a specific directive and will suffer the consequences. Otherwise, there are some good customs, and when we start breaking these good customs, we all get in trouble together. One of the good customs is the following, which is that the minister of law does not come every time, not all ministers come, but that the minister comes and the laws that are very important and very important there defends, even if it is on that first set and we have some ministers who run in very sensitive restaurants that come here and all day long are, I will mention there a Minister of Agriculture who certainly is not comfortable listening to everything we have to say, but he comes here neatly all day long, he listens to what he is, he has a mountain of replication and he reports everything else. We also have a minister from the area of justice who comes and is also there, and Minister Butkovic or, let's say, Minister Bozinovic can only see when he is currently in the morning, when he is accompanied by the prime minister and if they get a question usually from the ruling and welcome and a good preparation for that answer, but no. I am absolutely sure that today was the place of Minister Butkovic to be here. Now let's talk about the law a little bit, I, these are the laws that I always like to discuss, I like to discuss from one level of expertise, and I don't like to discuss on a flat-rate basis what it would be like to be and what it would be like. So it's about a law that we looked forward to and that was that old law and everything else, but that we needed. So there's no one among us who doesn't get upset every time that dear favorite device called a smart phone turns on, so there's no signal and then when you don't have a signal, and you want to have a signal in every condition then you're all, the state, the minister, all of us together are guilty and we like to have a signal everywhere and in every condition. I've spoken several times from this pay phone about it, and I don't hide it, so sailing is one of my great loves. In recent years, when you see some sailboats on board ships, they are all at some point on their own or laptops or all the other laptops and they like to have and when on the outermost island they are able to connect to all possible networks, therefore it is extremely important to have that possibility of communication and therefore it really needs to be taken into account. We've been through this thorny road, this thorny road that we remember a little longer or we've been in this world we've been through different and debates and what it means is planning in spatial order documents, which means in construction, which means in issuing permits, which means in all of it, so it seems to me that the beginning of all that was, and I see that there were also some colleagues who were from the beginning in that story, that was the big project that one of the former days the minister who came from Canada introduced, and these were the light lines that were the project where the whole state was and that was the networked light lines. That's when the ministry where I worked was where the local permits were issued, and you know what the result was? Location permits have been issued, and no construction permits have been issued until the end, and I'm afraid some of them have remained in that so-called. The gray zone. This law requires you to do two things, one thing that you have not done and which I will speak a little more in an individual debate, so we have in Croatia a terrible lot of infrastructure, especially these infrastructures that are illegal, which is not only illegal it is not even registered. I worked in some other system and another story when anyone was publishing so when a useful permit was issued before the license was issued, you had to bring confirmation from the cadastre that you had recorded a complete infrastructure network, that it was recorded in the cadastre and then it was a condition for issuing a valid authorisation. That's what we lost on the way. So we have a part of the problem that this law doesn't solve, I've seen some proposals on the legalization of the infrastructure network and everything else, you have an existing infrastructure network that's left in the gray zone. With this ministry where you come from, it's there somewhere in 2013. When the Law on Roads worked, he then brought a provision regarding the unclassified roads where he allowed the law to make the unclassified roads legal and said it should go. It seems to me like it's a model that's good for this, too, but it's something to think about, and here you haven't solved. Here you solve things from now on, when it's being built, how it's being built, and of course I have to mention that complete cable infrastructure built by local self-government units that are made by different performers that you don't even know who they are or who they are, so there's a number of things. But when we talk about the future of this law you have defined some of the conditions and conditions that are, I will refer here on behalf of the club to several articles, of course I'm always talking about those things that I kind of think I understand more about. So, in art. In Article 59(2), you say that as planned, planned in documents, regional and all, and among other things, health protection, space protection and environmental protection requirements must be met. So it's a provision that's old, which is no longer used in some kind of expression. It seems to me, and in that sense, I will prepare an amendment so that it would be incomparable to say after human health with the elements of the protection of natural and cultural heritage and all elements of the preservation of the quality of space. These are the expressions used today, so something that would be in the spirit of something new. So, I'll make an effort to make that amendment, if you want to accept it, it's like a camel, it won't be any better or worse, but it's in the spirit of regulations that should be and that should be defined in that way. Then I'm going to refer to two articles and I think the Committee on Transport has already given an amendment if I've seen in the amendments that it's prepared through the Association of Cities. What's always a problem and what's still going to be a problem is you two things, one thing is your property-legal relationship. So you still think when we read everything is very clear, it's clear that you can't talk differently about property relations like lex speccialis because it says that everything is in accordance with the laws that regulate spatial planning and construction. So, solving property relations can't be any different. I often wonder, so this may be some kind of heresy compared to what I normally represent, I often wonder if the time has come for some situations and some things, as a lex specialis, to impose some different solutions. So, what I'm talking about, so here's your confirmation of the right path, so the confirmation of the right path these paths when it comes to the indivisible you'll have to refer to the 2013 Roads Act, which is okay, but let's say in cities very simply when you take some roads in the city of Zagreb, when you take the grantovnica you'll be going there another road has been made for years, and there are still former owners. So, these are some things to be asked for in the future, but I'm 10 minutes out, and then I'm going to in an individual little bit more detail about these property ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115318	On behalf of the HDZ representative club, the respected representative, Pero Ćosic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115319	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, honourable representatives of the proposings, state secretaries with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law transposes the provisions of several European directives into the Croatian legal system and ensures the implementation of EU regulations regulating the area of electronic communications, and concerns the development of electronic communications networks that will ensure the necessary connectivity and availability of networks of very high capacity and their use by all citizens, as well as entrepreneurs. When we talk about high capacity networks today, many primarily think about 5G networks, but it must not be forgotten that lighting networks, except that they are used to directly release electronic communications services to users, they also serve to connect the base stations of mobile networks, and also to directly connect the two points with a very large capacity. Through the provision of conditions for new investment in projects to develop electronic communications networks and services, further development of competition is expected, both in the area of infrastructure and in the area of service provision. In the field of radio spectrum management, the novelty of installation in the Law on the harmonisation of radio spectrum between EU Member States, as well as third countries, is the aim of this process to enable the effective and faster resolution of the dispute and the removal of harmful spectrum disturbances, although the procedure has so far been harmonised in the domestic law of the Republic of Croatia, the first in Europe has used the possibility of a procedure to remove interference from the Italian television and radio programmes, and these interferences have been significantly reduced and further improvements are expected. The law prescribes a regulatory obligation to develop a geographical overview of the availability of broadband or broadband networks and lays down rules for the construction of broadband networks using state aid. For the first time, it is also possible for a special regulation to introduce the conditions of connection of buildings to an electronic communications network, and also to plan within the sublegal act to provide specific opportunities for the use of emergency services networks within the Republic of Croatia. For the first time, there is an obligation for operators in terms of transparency and interoperability which have not been subject to the regulation of services provided via the Internet without their own network and infrastructure, such as Viber, Whatsapp, Facebook and the like. The issue of accessibility of electronic communications services, equally valuable access to elections for disabled end-users, is also being addressed. But when we discuss laws, and in addition to discussing the metricity itself, we almost always look back on the state in which the law regulates and implements it in practice, and I will look back on the level of compensation for the right path, in the way it is governed by this Law, of course in the capacity of the HDZ Club. Real estate owned by counties, cities and municipalities and other public bodies where the infrastructure operator is assigned to the right of way are actually public and unclassified roads, city squares, footsteps, promenades, public parking lots and other public areas, for the regular economic use of such properties currently other entities that are not in infrastructure operators, fees and public charges are not paid according to other specific rules, as compensation for the right road is concerned, part of the unit of local self-government has unfortunately not yet concluded contracts with infrastructure operators, and part of them contracted have difficulties both with payment and with demand. In addition, the unsettled property relations of the issues of ownership of network infrastructure remain a daunting circumstance. The proposed Law stipulates that the calculation and the amount of compensation must constitute a fair ratio between the manager, the general good or the owner of the real estate and the interest of the electronic communications and services operator and the public interest in the development of the electronic communications market. The fee shall be paid annually per square metre of land used for electronic communications and infrastructure and other related equipment. It is precisely those provisions of this Act which regulate the right path that a number of remarks and comments have been made in the public consultation process, as well as in the thematic session of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, as well as proposals from associations representing the interests of units of regional and local self-government. This topic was also discussed with the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the opinion was given that the proposed Law contains provisions that could lead to the reduction of the income of the unit of local self-government, the income of the Croatian Roads and the County Road Administrations, while also pointing to an increase in the cost of maintaining the same, particularly unclassified roads. In order to improve the application and implementation of this Act, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has also proposed an amendment to the Article. Paragraph 63, Article 64(3), and we hope that it will be accepted by the applicant, which is further specified that any additional fee or fee is to be determined or charged for the use of the general goods or properties for which the certificate of the right of travel is not to be issued, and is further related to the electronic communications network or electronic communications infrastructure, except for the right of way compensation in accordance with this Article. The proposed addition and clarification achieves legal certainty, will not result in any negative financial impact for either the infrastructure operator or the public authorities bodies. The amendment is proposed in order to avoid any differences in interpretation of the ambiguity of the application of this provision in practice, e.g. Code, by inspection and by this unit of local self-government, we know that various inspections are coming without clear, clear that they are being examined.../incomprehensible/... the same relationships,.../incomprehensible/... that they relate only to the electronic communications network and electronic communication infrastructure. So if some telecommunications goes on some big surface, square or road, on that same square and on that road units of local self-government can rent that space to other users and make income, so here, because of the clarification we put it as a supplement. As for the level of compensation for the right of travel, the secretary of state has also pointed out, for years the EU Commission and the World Bank and others have been saying that they are too high in the Republic of Croatia, that they should be reduced, of course, it should be well considered and seen what are the conditions in other countries, what are the conditions for us as regards the development of the network itself and the coverage of telecommunications. It is prescribed that the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities HACOM, as it has been and so far, means that it gives the infrastructure operator confirmation of the right path, and that the procedure and the level of compensation for the right path are detailed in the rules adopted by the Agency's Council. Therefore, when adopting a new regulation under this law, the level of compensation for the right of way should be analysed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account that between acceptable solutions, such as this law and regulations, there is a fair balance between the rights of the manager of the general good or the owner of the property and the interests of the operator and the electronic communications networks and services and of the public interest. In conclusion, we believe that this law creates a quality and modern legislative framework for the development of electronic communications and proposes better and better quality solutions for the stakeholders to which this law will apply. Also by adopting this law, we have heard, and the precondition for full payment of the second war of financial resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for 2021 will be met. – In 2026, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Electronic Communications Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115320	On behalf of the Green and Left Blog Club, the time will be shared by respected representatives of Willim Matula and Bojan Glavasevic. First of all, the respected representative of William Matul, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115321	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable State Secretary said when a good debate was not needed, later he tried to relativate at least a little bit, it seemed to me that this statement which had certainly escaped him, and I would say that the debate was actually roughly overrun and that it was conscious for a number of reasons because it had been concluded, a lot of reasons had come together, but a political decision had been made that it would not have to be done by the minister, you would come here, and you would explain why if something 3 years had been prepared and if it was so extremely complex that it could then be, and with that analysis being done and we saw the working group on which it was in this, in these closed elitist circles, of interest, of course there was a long duopol Croatian Telecom and A1 and now a new member who would eventually become a secure member of the major teleperaters of Telemach, they were perfectly understandable. The very important reason that you are listed here is that you are forced to hurry because if you do not do so by 30.6. then it comes to the question of the 700m euros and that and that is one of the reasons. Why not expose yourself to a legal public debate but again by not knowing which way to define, simulate public debate, lead to a very short one because it could have been much longer with such important reasons than it was only 14 days on e-consultation. But yes, it was decided as it was decided. The old story about the fact that the infrastructure that has been working for years and which has been very high-quality and which Croatian telecom has received especially in large cities because in rural areas with full right they complain about slow and bad Internet and certainly need it, but let's hear about that this duopol or oligopol has no intention of actually increasing those processes in rural areas. That doesn't seem right. The debate on 5G networks can also be dangerous because people have great prejudices probably part of it that are nearby in some corners and justified in relation to the 5G network and we know that one great world hysteria about it is raised, I am not, of course, an expert in it, I want to believe that science has checked and certainly that we in the green-left block are very clear how much all the devices and all the possibilities for fast internet are needed. But what I can testify about and what citizens know very well about in the City of Zagreb where it is thought to be the fastest and should be the fastest internet, we have witnessed how workers really in the granolas, the once-in-a-lifetime bowls of coaxial cables, and I personally belonged to the PTT Center in the 3rd high school, and we have those former coaxial cables this in, of course not in the schools down there connected those pairs and then checked it out, we have this experience, I have as much respect as anyone who has passed it for those people who are creating this new technology today and who are doing it all on optical cables. However, the fact is that with all the high speeds in which the day and the time will end, and then this will continue, Glavasevic, it is absurd and you all testify that in Zagreb with so many bills that we have for mobile devices on the one hand, so much of the budget that people separate for television and these programs, and that is one of the more important reasons why people end up in the blockade then I get circumstances and all, but I just want to comment on that fact that so often the Internet in Zagreb leads to errors in this contact, lost one, wait for some breaks, there are sometimes more mistakes than there were in time when we watched black white television, that cathode, and when there were disturbances, it was amazing how often there is interference in Zagreb at these most modern and high quality technical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115322	The respected representative Glavasevic will continue on behalf of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. For me, after my colleague Matula, I actually have two points to point out that our club is going to propose as amendments amongst other things, so we ask you to consider them. The first amendment will be related to our article. 13, so this is, we touched this in the replica, so we think that, of course, it is clear why HS appoints them on the government's proposal, the government of the handel tender, and it of course proposes a appointment, but we think that the solution before the deadline if the conditions that are stated should not be exclusively on the government's proposal, so we would suggest that the resolutions are prematurely possible, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can suggest, but also that this possibility has HS on its own, so we believe that it is purely on that side that it will not in any way substantially damage but that it can only be good and useful because in this way it is actually given some kind of balance, and the HS that it can, of course, not only on the government's proposed itself, but it can launch a proposal for, for a resolution. And about that, we had the opportunity to see very recently the example of the director of the chief HRT who, in fact, had received a powerful or confirmed indictment from the competent court for the criminal offence, but it was not foreseen in the law that it could be relieved of its duties, so we would suggest that, that the point be done. 6th Amendment to that article and to provide that it can be resolved if there is a confirmed indictment by the competent court of criminal offence. Because, look, you might find that a man, we've been saying, that a man ends up in an investigative prison for three months, in our legal system a confirmed indictment is so far away from, according to something concrete I'd say, and he means what he's going to be in prison for three months and he won't be able to carry out and act on his duty, like this if he's got a confirmed indictment, he's given the opportunity to get rid of a man and I think it shouldn't be problematic. And finally, the second amendment is related to our article. 52. in which we have proposed that words be deleted in a way that is not contrary to national interests in the area of national security because in the follow-up to these sentences already talk about laws governing the national security of the Republic of Croatia. So here, that's one thing we consider to be one orderly phrase that leaves space for a very broad interpretation of what is a national interest and what is national security, and these are very sensitive things in, we think that the right to privacy here is also potentially compromised if too broad definitions are left behind, and in the follow-up of that sentence it's already sufficiently precise what things should look like, so here we invite you to consider these amendments, we will submit them, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115324	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Dario Zurovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115325	Thank you. Here are the esteemed MPs and MPs, although our role is mostly to criticise certain things, I think that we should all be also, we should also play a role in explaining some things to our citizens or nothing else, even to our fellow Members who are within the assembly. In fact, I've heard a lot of words today about it from communication, from spatial planning and so on, so it wouldn't be bad to define some of the problems that come true in the field. In fact, there is a huge problem that occurs to cities, but also to counties related to spatial planning and communication itself. Today we have touched most of the telecoms, but your problem is also HEP, the problem is Senders and Links, how we will regulate and these fees too because if you have a base station you can really get close to and the base stations themselves and build because that radiation goes to you so-called umbrellaic. Also Croatian companies have developed systems that you have in real time, we have one such set on one of our kindergartens in St. Sunday measures all radiation, but not only of Telekom, you also have Tetra, you have emergency aid, you have military radiation, you have even radio, you would be surprised that even radio stations and radio radiates twice as much compared to typical base stations. The bigger problem is this spatial planning disorder, there is a huge mess in space, and that is what this law should always bear in mind that regardless of some good attempts and good regulatory spatial planning it should be accompanied or this law should be accompanied by good spatial planning. In fact, we can't have situations where you can play the law that you can't build on some agricultural land, but if you're exaggerating the surface, then it's considered to be an environmental arrangement, and we're talking about naked concrete, and then you literally get a base station on the wheels and set it up and there's nothing against the law, there's nothing against spatial planning, and you don't need a building permit. It's one segment that definitely needs to be highlighted. It also needs to highlight one part that binds itself again and to the safety that we often do ourselves. We also heard some mentions today about apps and so on. Good part for all these ads you get on your cell phones, my people, you've agreed to it yourself. For what? When you use an app how many times they ask if you want us to access your photos, your voice and shoot your face, of course. And 95% of you probably just squeezed in, yeah just to send some messages as soon as possible, etc., but that's how you gave the consent to be sent out. Today's technology is that you have something that is popular to call even God's eye. What is your God's eye? Now that I'm talking on this cell phone and now I'm talking about a blue blouse or a blue dress, here's the thing about a colleague who listens to me, I'm probably gonna get those ads out. And the trades for what? 'Cause I'm a decent person to get these calls sent to me. It's usually very, very simple technology that regulates you now. Also, as far as any protection is concerned, believe me, anyone who programs these calls themselves and who programs these applications always sees that this end-user is of course protected. If SOA wants to follow you, then they'll follow you, and don't worry about it. We should also look around all the communications and the regulation of the 5G network there were all kinds of crazy inscriptions that we could see in the media literally that the links between 5G and the crown were. I really hope we're not going to hear it here in the assembly because it was really in some ways very, very funny. This law is not bad and it is not bad to regulate certain things, especially legal gains from the EU, but some things in practice simply cannot overlap between our country and other countries. Namely, you have a huge problem with property relations, our land books are not solved by Austria-Hungarian and it probably creates problems for you who write this law, and we too who should either pass or reject it. In fact, land books have not been solved for so many years precisely because they do not want to damage people and puts this right to service, mostly because people do not lose any money. But according to the public who I hope sees this, even if the monitoring of the assemblies is quite rare and quite exotic, it should be pointed out that the right of service means that the land is still yours, but if something breaks down on that network, if, for example, the sewerage is carried out where a shaht, some opening, means that the duty services can go out on the ground without asking you. Otherwise, which means if I get through the optics or here we've heard from a colleague who's very sure, I need to intervene right on your land, I need to ask for your permission again because according to the constitutional right home and property are still invulnerable, and while I get that license, who knows when you're going to have water or Internet or similar. This way you can intervene immediately, but that does not mean that you are left without land, and precisely because of these unregulated things this right of hearing and the right of compensation, of course there exists. Once again, it's being conducted through court-editing, which I think is quite right. There's one more thing that needs to be pointed out that's general and that's general. Croatia has 80% of its finances centralized from the central state budget 15% goes to the city of Zagreb, while 3-5% are all other municipalities, cities and counties. That's why municipalities and cities jump all the time to need a bigger fee, a lot more when a certain copy is made to know who you all these citizens are coming to? They come to the mayors and commissioners in the office and swear on them and negotiate with them. They don't go to the centre of some telecommunications company or transmitters and connections or to HEP, they probably don't even know where their centers are or who's the chief operative. And that's the damage that needs to be remedied. If you've paved the nogost, if you've paved the road if you've done anything to enhance the quality of life and infrastructure within your city or municipality and now any company comes to you, we're not just talking about telecoms, but we're talking about Elektra or any other state firm and she's making a copy or some sort of recovery that doesn't regularly tell you how to do it, and then you come across with your car, then it'll pay off if you have any damage to the shocker or the tire? That's a question for you. Who made the copy. And you still need to get rid of it, you have to pay for it again, and you've got some damage. That's exactly why it's good for these things to be regulated. At the end of the day, I'll go back to the beginning, we're short of smart spatial planning. It should also be noted that within Croatia, around 92 even close to 93% of the area is rural. In rural areas, it's not like municipalities and cities have huge finances. Consider just before I said about the disbursement of this financial cake and still consider that all of us are in a position to be either close to the sea or close to some large centres that they can have both the population and the entrepreneurship and the rest, we are not all in the same situation, so that yet some right of service and thus more if someone makes a certain profit based on the use of public infrastructure still needs to pay something. Besides, you might want to use some kind of apartment to make some kind of profit, you'd probably pay for that apartment. It should be in some healthy proportions, it should not be exaggerated, it should not be peeled, but we still need to bring some things down to some common sense, only so we can go forward in this Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115326	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115327	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll look back on the secretary's statements that the law is fine and we don't have any problems with him. And I'll start right away from the art. The 63rd century of the 3rd century, which states that the rulebook is yet to be written, means the rulebook for fees. So we're passing the law and we don't know if the fees that are now paid to local self-government units are going to be the same, bigger or less. For some units of local self-government, these are significant revenues. Don't forget that the largest city in Croatia is Gospić, which has little income from its original incomes and that these incomes mean a lot to him. It is territorially large and can generate large revenues if it is normally defined and prescribed in the right way. I think it should be in the law, right here in this case again in the rulebook. So, it's already now I don't know which time we're going to pass the law, and we don't know what that law is going to do on the ground. Will it help our fellow citizens or not? I also found no article in the law that obliges an operator to build a network, to build a network in the rural part. I know it's a problem for them. They're profit companies, they expect profits, and of course it's a problem to develop a network where it's not worth it. However, if we have given them the opportunity to build in cities and places that are narrowed down, it would be normal for us to commit them in some way to build the same network in parts where there are not so many of our fellow citizens who will later use those services. The secretary replied that local self-government and state would react there. This means that in some ways we will help teleopers overcome some problems. I don't know why we would help them, I don't know why we would operate that way before certain cities and certain municipalities had built their optical infrastructure before. Nowhere in the law states that operators are obliged to use already existing infrastructure, which can also be a large income of local self-government units. So when new arrangements were being made for individual cities, municipalities, when the centres were being edited, when the optical sewers were being installed before they were paved, and that optics exists. And instead of defining it in the law that the operator is obliged to use the existing optical infrastructure, I'm talking about a passive, so I'm talking about cables, we can't force them to act because they have their equipment, after all, the assets will now be defined by this Digital Security Act, so we'll see what they're going to put in Croatia and reinstall. Are we going to get old equipment or new equipment? So far, we've always had old equipment, and we've been coughing for Europe. We hope to reach them now, given that we are part of Europe and that we should have about the same level of development. But look, I've already mentioned the rural part, today a small OPG unless it deals with new technologies, unless it comes out of the market with new technologies, means if it's not dealing with electronic business, if it doesn't offer its products online, if it doesn't have that Internet infrastructure, if that structure is slow, if it's often interrupted by that entrepreneur, there's no chance of success. Sometimes when it comes to equipment, then it's about communal equipment in terms of water, there's got to be electricity, there's got to be road to some pitch, there's got to be sewerage, and today there's got to be Internet connection. Without it, the parcel for the entrepreneur is not good. Without it, the location for the entrepreneur is not good. And not to mention that today we have young people who deal with entrepreneurship in a completely different way, who sign contracts with foreign companies, they need high speeds on the Internet, and they can't work in their environments, so they go into larger environments. And in that part, we're having an exodus from some parts of the region again, and we're actually achieving an even greater inequality in the development of certain parts. And instead of defining it and things like that in the law, we haven't done anything about it. If we can make it right later to the rules, if we can help people in rural areas, if we can help municipalities and cities that already have built infrastructure, if we can force operators to use that infrastructure, or if we have to let them build their own infrastructure, and that ours, which we have invested our money in as citizens of these cities and municipalities, will stand, and they will have their own so that they will not accidentally pay any more and lose any of their big profits that they have at the level of the year. That's what we need to talk about. We must pass laws that will help our citizens to live better, help our units of local self-government to have good and quality incomes from which they will then raise the standard of their fellow citizens. There's no such thing in this law. We heard this series of questions about people's health. I think there's a colleague here a little while ago explaining some things, actually the radio stations are radiating more than they're radiating these new base stations. That, I watched those measurements about 7-8 years ago when new base stations came to Croatia just for those networks and when it was shown what this radiation looked like and really that radiation was less. But you need someone controlling which technology is being built on, the measurements should be constantly present on the ground. Without these measurements, there's no way to get those bad devices in place that'll cause more radiation. That is why we need to have additional control over this together if we are to make our citizens live better and better. Furthermore, stories that the operator will in some way agree with the co-financing of the state to withdraw its network to the furthest houses. Believe me, he won't. We tried it out in our local self-government unit. Where we were six, seven years ago, we're there today. So nothing happened. Where we pulled our lines, where we participated with our money, where the city participated with its money there we have the fast internet, everything else is gone. Or where they found the investors themselves. So we found an investor who invested in optical infrastructure and that part of the city, so the city, it's not a village, so the city has optical infrastructure and has faster Internet access. The others still don't. And nothing positive happened, a lot of operators came but everyone was offering a favor again where? In the very city where there is a great accumulation, where there is a great density of people, where there is a large number of users who will use these services. So there's no effect. In law, there should be a way to define how we will force these operators to access network development and to the most remote locations. Without it, there is no development in Croatia. Don't forget what years the Internet has been declared as common good. 30 or more years ago. This means that everyone in the world has the right to the Internet, as it has the right to air, as it has the right to water. And 20 percent of our citizens don't have the Internet except on their mobile devices when they come into the middle where they have a normal relationship, where they have normal communication. So there's a lot of work ahead of us, and there's a lot of government and agencies that are going to be laying down regulations, and we're going to see what it's going to look like when these rules are passed. But optimism is really low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115328	We're moving on to an individual debate, and first of all, she's going to speak to a respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115329	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So it's a law that we're now passing in an emergency procedure and I'm going to say one sentence and finish. We've all emphasized it because we're forced to do it, because if we don't, then we'll be carrying serious sanctions, but I think they'll do it no matter what. But that shouldn't be the point. It should be said that we need to be aware that we need this law, that we need to regulate some of the problems we have because we have problems. I'll list a few things. The first thing I'm going to refer to if you have a front look at it at the end of how many regulations and regulations we have at this point remain in force until new regulations are passed. So, on two, on two pages on one sheet of paper are all possible rules, all possible regulations, all possible regulations, all possible sublegal acts that are necessary at all to make this law that is not simple, which is complicated, which has somewhere 190 articles or close to them at all and that it might be in use at all. I always do, and I'll never understand that I've always asked why, let's just say, a special rule on the official card, the badges of the electronic communications inspector. So there's not a single topic where the inspector in charge of this isn't supposed to have a rule that specifically defines his badge. Why can't it be especially when we have a State Inspectorate one, no one can explain it to me but that's something I have to touch, which I have to say. The second topic is to try to understand the importance and importance of electronic communications. So, what I said when I was arguing on behalf of the club is there's no one here between us who doesn't like to turn on that phone that nobody can't get a signal without right now. Because without, if there's no signal and if he can't see from those elemental things what the Index or the Tportal published, then he's absolutely out of contact with the world. And in order for us to have this is a prerequisite for you. So your prerequisite is that somewhere where you don't think they should be individual, so the witness isn't all satellite individuals and towers that aren't acceptable to you, so some columns there are. And now we're coming up with a major problem. In order for this law to work in the future, it has some elements that it can work, but you can't function anywhere without the past. And your past isn't that harmless and it's not that simple. At this point, we have an awful lot of electronic infrastructure in certain cities, in the state, at the level of a state that is illegal. When I spoke on behalf of the club, I was talking about that big project when the light lines that went under the sea, above the sea, when a minister who came from Canada and recognized that if Croatia wanted to have contact with the world and be access to the whole world, it had to be solved. And he ended up on location permits. And no construction permits were ever issued, no concessions were ever defined, no fees were never paid, and the whole network of light lines remained below the radar. And now we have a provision in Article 63(1) where there is an attempt to bring about a legal situation. I understand the proposings that now the guys are on their cell phones, so they're talking a little bit about what I understand, so I understand the proposer who's in the provision of art. You have the first indent of the 63rd century if you have a useful fine, you have a useful license, it's all solved and you have no problem. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. From the beginning of its use. It means that through there, I have this one feller that I have there for this to always think about how you can do it in reality, so this is my big question about how there's going to be proof and what's going to prove in reality. I'm running out of time to, I'm going to try some more replicas to explain what's going on, I haven't timed the vice president well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115330	He's got multiple replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115331	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have touched the regulations at the end of this law, so let me appeal once again, in the e-consultation is the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on Simple and Other Buildings which states in its article the electronic communication infrastructure can be built against a spatial plan within the spatial planning corridors. I think this is incredible, but you're still the former Minister of Construction, so comment on this, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115332	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115333	Thank you very much, so sometimes in life you get caught by what we call a little power, when you see what someone is capable of writing somewhere and behind it is the question of how to spend it. There may be a solution to say, I heard it in this assembly, there are some who were sitting at the time, I was in executive power when, when I explained something and then they told me that what I was explaining was that there was a traditional illegal construction in the Croats. Traditionally illegal construction was then explained to me by the building that happens on weekends, which means when you bring together your friends, godmothers, cousins and cousins and over the weekend make one floor of the house and that it is something that is in the tradition of Croatians and that why we want to prevent it, but in the tradition of Croatians it was never that the regulation defined that something could be contrary to spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115334	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115335	Dear colleagues, I apologize I came to your presentation a little later, but I am interested in your opinion that you are commenting on the fact that in this urgent procedure the law will not be specified by the formula of calculating the fees by law, but it will be regulated by a rule that has to be made by HACOM, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115336	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115337	So again, there are traditions here, and every, every parliamentary term or term in office, you have some things that happen to you and what happens to you when you look at cafes somehow, so for a while everything was brown and I don't know about brass, and then behind that was pretty neat, and here, the less things you want to define by law, and the more things you want to switch to regulations and regulations for the simple reason that you can't discuss it, you can possibly discuss it if you go into e-consumption and look at what it is, and then there's a little bit, but then there's no discussion anymore, but there's no consistency either. We had a law two weeks ago that defined what the requirement was, so for approval, what format of paper must be, which grammation and what color, so we have laws that define it, and then we have laws that define as little as possible, and as much as possible shifts to the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115338	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115339	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, Mr. Dark-Taritash, that other condition of the article. The second condition is to use electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment without a judicial dispute with the manager of the general goods or the owner of the property on which that infrastructure was built for a period of at least 3 g. From the beginning of its use. You who have that experience have started to talk about how difficult this condition is to keep and there is always the possibility of some esophagus in there, and now I'm wondering if it goes in favor of local self-government, or if it bothers these big investors who will also bring the Internet into rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115340	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115341	My colleagues and colleagues, Matula, so I started talking about it, and I didn't have time anymore. I have and I'm done here, I have this feller that I always put in shoes how to spend something, how to prove something at all. As soon as you get into some other resort where you're not really at home and expect him to solve something here you are, there's a problem. So if you wanted to get rid of it, so this one, this first indent, you have a useful license, fine, you don't have what, now it's just a question, it's always a question that there aren't any more, but okay, that doesn't have to at all, but this second indent, how is it gonna prove, who's going to prove, in what process is it going to prove? I did not, when I spoke on behalf of the club, I deliberately mentioned the Law on Roads and in 2013 when the problem of unclassified roads, the entry into the EU, which were illegal and then the provision of the law clearly defined the conditions under which it was legally governed by that provision of the law by the ministry. Here for this to be gonna have to prove someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115342	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115343	Dear colleagues, do you know anything...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115344	My colleague Zekanovic, a colleague of Pavić, is ahead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115345	And if you'll excuse me, it's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115347	Dear MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115348	Quick on the trigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115349	...the law says that surveillance and inspection will actually be done by the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Transport, so we will have another bottleneck because there will certainly be as many inspectors as it will be on the ground when all this is launched and when it comes to a variety of disputes and various observations. Second, we had, here's a colleague of ours twice mentioned that since 7.6. in the procedure of building simple buildings. The question arises when units of local self-government make up a spatial plan and when they are bothered by who will make up for it, who they will move, how they will then measure access, whether all those users who have so far had access to the Internet and to network communications of the same or different ones will be available again. Who's gonna regulate that? In what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115350	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115351	Thank you very much. So, to be a little clearer, or perhaps a little rougher, that dance that deals with spatial plans is very dangerous because we in our regulation have spatial plans of different levels. So we have some of the country's spatial plans that we still don't have, but I hope it sees the light of day. We have spatial plans for the county, the municipalities and the cities and then we have urban plans. And every plan is done on a certain scale and it's for a certain need. So the county's spatial plan cannot define what the urban plan defines. The urban plan can be done by those among us who are technical lessons in a scale of one versus a thousand. So that's you, otherwise your copies of the cadastar plan are mostly particles in one against a thousand. And when you define something in this spatial plan that's one to the thousandth measure, and the rulebook says that it can otherwise have permanent effects on space, on the use of space and on property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115352	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115353	Dear colleagues, what do you think of the Starlink network in the context of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115354	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115355	So, colleague Zekanovic, this law is something I absolutely appreciate that we need. I don't have a problem here, and I think he should be. And I think that one over-state that wants to settle its space and take care of it must have a law that defines everything. Equally what I think I said clearly, which is that the law should have gone through two readings. He doesn't go through two questions just because someone overestimated or underestimated himself and concluded that he shouldn't, even though we have a valid law that is who he is. And in the context of that, we actually need to keep an eye on, but always, always at the end of the story, we need to take care of the protection of users, about the protection of private rights, about protecting us at all as a person, and the question is how much this protection can be because through all these smart or half-smart devices we are available and our data are absolutely available to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115356	Now, the honourable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115357	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's my colleague Nemet, you'll have, listen up now. Look, so you'll have a reason to replicate. Here's a colleague of the Dark Tarritate's answered nicely, but apparently she doesn't know what Starlink is. But it doesn't matter, now I'm going to teach you and the rest of you what Starlink is. A lot of people know, I guess. So here's the deal. Three years ago, Elon Musk started launching satellites every week. So far he's launched about 2,000 in low orbit around the country, 2000. There are about six and a half thousand satellites in your space today in orbit around the Earth. Of those 6 and a half thousand are 2,000 Muskov. He has a current permit for another 12,000 satellites, and his plan is to launch all 45,000 satellites. Are you following me? 45,000 satellites in low orbit above ground. These satellites are for the Starlink network. So one English word, an expression, and now you can pay Elon Musko $100 in our country of Croatia independently of this law and connect to the Internet, and we haven't regulated that by this law. Now I'm going to criticize you a little bit, my people. So this is like we're in the era today, so here's the car industry talking about the wagon. We had to put this in this bill, and unfortunately, neither the agency nor the resolution ministry is discussing this. Here I'll read you a part of the mail that I got 5.11. because I checked in three years ago for Starlink and they sent me 5.11. Last year Starlink is now... and Croatia. ... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Blah, blah, blah. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So 5.11.2021. So, today anyone with a hundred dollars in their pocket or 200, now I don't know exactly the price even if there's a price list there means he can get home a small device, connect to the Internet and actually do whatever he wants. This was a good thing in the context of Ukraine. You have all heard that, for example, in Mariupola, which was completely destroyed, how the brave defenders of Ukraine daily placed information from Mariupol thanks to Elon Musk, who donated tens of thousands of Starlink devices to Ukraine. Great thing, but to me, I'm a personal fan of Elon Muska. I'm really cool with everything he does. You haven't picked up your colleague's line yet? So it's really cool what he's doing, but I'm really nervous when we're in our country playing Facebook, Google, Twitter, Instagram to make huge money in our virtual space and give the Croatian state a spike, nothing. And now we have the same situation in terms of providing online services. So someone in our space here virtually provides Internet services, someone's a provider of that, and we don't get angry but it looks a little bit like we fell off Mars. So this is, this isn't a Facebook right now. This is what people buy. With that, look out, these speeds are terrible. So there's no competition in this. These are your downward speeds between 200 and 100 megabits per second. So all these Croatian providers give you if you're on optical cable 20, 30 ceiling. So this is what 8 is, correct me freely in the replica let's make it possible, come on ok. something more or less. But then it's about extremely high speeds. And now to conclude. Your Honor, I'm not going to write a amendment to this because I don't really know where I'd put that amendment, where, in order to put it, I might put it in this article. 55. However, this is for a thorough discussion with you, that you might consider this and, with this bill or some new, fully adapted, come to this representative body to protect the Croatian virtual space, that is, this electronic service. So someone's working us illegal right now. I'll say this too. Don't mind me. When I asked you that question in the replica, I saw that you heard about the Starlink, but when you say inspection, what now, the inspector should go to Elon Muscoe's place where he lives now, I don't know, California? So, here, I reported, here I will forward my email to him that they have sent me to provide internet services in Croatia. Here. Here's one, two replicas. You got it. Lately. Come on, here, three, three, three, come on. ... But I'm still saying [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm still talking. [[No, no, no. You're done.]] So he still, therefore, got an email from Elon Musk and the mail reads and so on and so on and so on. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115358	Great. Uh, let's take it in a row. The first is a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115359	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, I think it's good that you've opened this debate. So I'm dealing with the main thing that you seem to be up against, but there are some things that I think we should discuss and that we should discuss both in public space and in this assembly. So I sometimes feel like we're driving carriages, and the real world is already on spaceships. When you asked me that question, I wasn't sure if you were thinking about the Man, although it seemed absolutely tied to me because he put all his satellites to the benefit of Ukraine at the moment when the aggression started and when everything, so, but I have to tell you one thing. In some things, this can really replace the inspection business. You today on a satellite that goes and you as a state can pay, I don't know, $100 a month, you can see exactly how it grows. So it could be, you know, instead of that e-Inspector, could be that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So it can be of great benefit. [[Thank you very much. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115360	...representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115361	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague. Here, in fact, I said a similar thing in my individual discussion. Here, I'll fill you in a little bit. One of the most important ministries in China that is one of the most important countries on our planet is the Ministry of Artificial Intelligence. We mentioned a few years ago artificial intelligence as something... But so they have a ministry that is extremely important to them, which is dedicated to artificial intelligence, and if someone suggested it here from this place, they would probably, I don't know, end up in a madhouse in Croatia right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115362	Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, a few years ago, we had a problem with booking.com a very similar situation, so until European institutions got involved, until it was prescribed that a booking.com should pay a tax where the service is being done, although it is still in some sort of development, so from what we should get from booking.coma, the same thing will happen with Starlink and with all such providers working in the virtual space until Europe as such is involved and until this one, the laws agree to be equal to all EU members, I think we will not get a solution. So we must press here, not just us in HS, but also our Europarliamentaries and our representatives in the EU parliament to come to a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115364	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115365	Dear colleague Kleman, thank you for asking. It is not just booking, Airbnb and TripAdvisor and everyone who provides accommodation services, so they transfer tax obligations to the tenants and it is a huge problem that someone in Croatia actually makes huge money again in virtual space, and does not pay June, so the same thing is with this, so the parallel is fantastic. Here, honourable promoters, this is for you now a job, to contact you, for example. There he is, Mrs. Devereaux. Shuicu, who is in the Commission to start this issue up, means to address it at EU level. But not tomorrow, but really today and on the subject here, of course, what's on your subject, here's what I said to Starlink, but on what my colleague Kleman pointed out, and I agree, all these rental platforms that are very much, and they don't pay lip to the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115366	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115367	Here, my colleague Zekanovic, I don't think Mr. Musk has a problem with spatial planning, but what we're serving at this time is bypassing spatial plans to build electronic communications. I wonder if you're okay with doing it that way or if you're kind of against it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115368	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115369	So thanks again. Of course, dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Of course, space-plan documentation must take into account all that is provided for by this Law, although here, I will say one now, for example. The illogicality of my Sibenik, which bothers me very much. For example. It is not defined by this bill to set up a transmitter on cultural goods and we have a huge problem. Here, Fort St. Ivana, recently, we spent ten million euros in it, now it looks fine, but it still has a perfectly legal repeater, a transmitter, not only of these providers, all of them possible, from television, radio, there are 10 transmitters, and that is a huge, huge problem. I think that by law, this bill of law should also, and also, for reflection, ban, not on cultural well-being but close to cultural good to setting up transmitters, and here in Sibenik, they have a situation that is in the midst of a fortress that is extremely important, a repeater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115370	Thank you. The following will be spoken by the honourable representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115371	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I mean, I'm going to support this proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications because I think a step forward in relation to what we've had so far, the 2008 law with amendments, and I think that in all the parts that need and which it covers, it brings what's called forward or better, and what's been disputed and what's tried to put on the table by the opposition that we want to do with it damage to local self-government, it disables and it's not what they're saying. So I think that with what's important for us to bring it in as soon as possible, I think that it contains in its provisions everything that is necessary for these systems to be further upgraded. Looking back at the history of building our electronic communications networks, we had situations of our former let's tell today's HT then the state-owned firm that built its own lines, which tried to create a connection to every house in the immovable network. I don't think she's been able to make it to every time, but I don't think that's the case today either. This HT has been privatised, and today on the market that we have liberalised we have both in a mobile and immovable network of multiple operators and it is certain that the aim of them is that and by developing the network they provide room for additional revenues. Those who approach this topic lightly, who are trying to take a certain political point on such topics, let them take a look at HACOM's little report we have last for 2019, I found something different, it clearly shows what happened to the fixed network that once seemed most profitable to us today she has some problems. 2015-2019 minus €1 billion less revenue in the immovable network. What's going on? It happens that services and products have been transferred from immobilised to a mobile network and it happens that operators themselves are trying to reach within that space on a liberalised market and each offers a product, which one of these products will take over, each has its own price. What's happening now is one step, and that's construction after that copper water pipe, so we had a couple to speed up traffic, now we're going to optics. Lightwater... Who's the fastest guy here? The fastest is, as far as I can see, HT as one of the largest systems, even though others are trying to mate in a fixed network, we're talking. As for wireless transmission, i.e. The transmissions through the air all have their transmitters and that system works, somewhere better, somewhere it's tied coverage, somewhere it's weaker, they're higher speeds, they're weaker somewhere, but it's evolved over three decades. And we can't say today that we are the weakest country in the EU as far as these stories of electronic networks are concerned, I think we are somewhere in the middle and we have a lot of space and we are citizens who want to participate and pay for it. And it's not even the problem with those bills or how much it is, but we want a good product. I mean, what I see for them for a year, two days that there are big shifts and almost 300,000 possibilities when we talk about light-water connections when we talk about light-water... i.e. The optics are expanding. I can say that I come from the island of Rab which is the first island in Croatia that is covered by the optical network as a whole and I know that it was done in a way that there is an interest of one who wants to do something in this area and it has its cost of costing, like renting built infrastructure. This law also determines certain situations and I think it contributes to the better. I don't know how fast it's going to develop, but I think there's money in the EU funds and these are the biggest operators interested in taking and building such a network. What's she bringing? It brings speed and brings of course opportunities more. Now, as far as we're going to make it, it's not all up to the operators themselves, it's enough of that for the local self-government leaders. What I want to warn here is that there are companies or companies, let's call them entrepreneurs, who report to certain activities, but do nothing. And I have an example in my county where we had contracts with a single company that was supposed to develop an optical network in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, but behind their contract and obligation there was nothing left because they gave themselves such an opportunity not to fit for anything even though they signed the contracts. When another operator shows up they move away and they say we'll only deal with their part, but very badly dealing with it I have to say, I won't say the name of the company, but we have to prevent those possibilities that someone wants to do and sign contracts, and don't do anything, doesn't answer for anything, and there's no option. That he's responsible for nothing because he doesn't have enough resources to cover possible damage at all. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115372	We've got a few replicas, a respected representative of Maximchuk has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115373	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, we are all aware that we need this law, and you yourself have said in your debate that this is a step forward from the existing one. It will enable the rapid development of electronic communications networks to ensure the necessary connectivity of large capacity networks, including fixed, mobile and wireless networks. Of course we all expect to continue building infrastructure and improving services, greater visibility especially in rural areas, but what has caused the most controversy is compensation for the right path, and the unit of local self-government. I think we should once again clarify that this fee has not been abolished that it must be realistic and fair for all, of course for local self-government units, but also for service providers or operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115374	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115375	Thank you very much. As far as that fee is concerned, I think we've cleared it up today. I've been looking at the HACOM report and there have been requests from local self-government units, I think that all 576 local self-government, not 576 something less when we withdraw the county's applications. Whoever did or did not exercise the right, I cannot say the exact number, but that there is an interest in finally getting rid of it legally, i.e. that those who are bonds of payment and pay compensation are entitled to travel and use certain infrastructure which has been built for decades that they have upgraded themselves on premises or in areas that pass through particles that are owned by local self-government, that this is happening and of course there is the interest of the operator to pay as little and the interest of local self-government as possible to collect as much. Of course, there's a possibility that you're going to decompose yourself and the physical private person means in their areas, in their space where they pass, so it's one process that lasts. But HACOM doesn't run away from its obligations here. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115376	Thank you. Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115377	Thank you, Vice President. Kola Boric, the competent ministry had the maximum hearing to accept the comments and proposals of cities and municipalities during the public consultation on the proposal for this law for Articles 61 and 64, which are justified because these are significant revenues for us in our units of local self-government. I don't know why some of our colleagues are always arguing negatively today from the opposition. Everything is explained and we from the municipalities and cities are satisfied because we do not lose our financial resources. And today's debate is being held like that people's grandfather in the woods, the grandmother in the road, so can you comment on that a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115378	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115379	In the woods or in the road, I think we've cleared up what was basic. It means that this law doesn't bring about the expectations of the opposition to make that policy the best of it. It means when we talk about local self-government and the right path and who needs to pay for it. We've cleared that up, there's no such thing. Fighting to make everyone the i.e. All local self-governments are getting older it is right in front of all the institutions of the municipalities and cities themselves and then HACOM- as regulator and one who should pay for it to happen. I think it will go further, this law does not cross it, neither will that rule that will be passed so that we have done what we can in the assembly and as HDZ representatives, as the leaders of local self-government, and of course the ministry has respected it and I think there is no more about this dispute, this story is being put aside and we can continue the story of how to develop further communication, electronic communications means network in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115380	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115381	Dear fellow Boric, here's a little more about Starlik, this time I'll even apologize to the esteemed promoter because here they listened to what I'm saying, so they immediately searched there and found Starlink still registered in Croatia which is good. So that's good, but this way I'd ask you for a comment. Soon this Starlink as things stand when it launchs a full number of satellites will simply kill all the competition. ... that the mobile internet is $10 and that it appreciates the planet covering actually only him with the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one of your comments on that one very, very likely scenario.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115382	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115383	Thank you very much. As for the services provided, each person chooses the one most suited to it today. It'll be $10, and with that you'll get everything you've got now, it's possible that many will switch to that. Will it cover absolutely the entire Republic of Croatia and kill this other network that we have, so wirelessly I won't talk about it because I don't know, I'm not professional enough about it, then. But I think we've created a regulation that in 20 years let's say the last one, so when I look and the first 10 of our statehood makes it possible to liberalise the market, it's made it possible to build the necessary infrastructure. The number of connections in the mobile network in Croatia is phenomenal. So above the average of everyone in the EU, and when we see what happens in the immovable network, we have the operator's reaction and the offer of other products. What anyone's going to offer today is on the market as well as I don't know on the Internet TV protocol you can choose whatever you want and pay for it. just like any other favor. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115384	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115385	Thank you. You are pleased, your colleague Zmaić is pleased, you point out that the municipalities are satisfied. How do you comment on the fact that exactly the largest number of objections in this express public consultation that lasted 14 days have come from municipalities that are not satisfied with this law and who believe that the use of their spatial resources will be more thought about operators than the interest of municipalities and municipal revenues themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115386	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115387	I don't understand this last thing you said was that there was more thinking about using space by Internet operators, not local self-government itself. Here, I'd like someone to answer me how to draw a network into a spatial plan except maybe in the text section to write something when we're talking about it today, whether we're going to put a basic object, whether it's a central object, so we're going to put a stamp there, whether it's a locker, and we're going to put some stamps on it because we know that we have nothing in the waternet in the spatial plan except text. So we're looking at basic objects, basic objects, so what's important to us is that the system works, and we're talking about the network. I'm talking about that there are municipalities and cities that have dealt with it. In my community, let's say 80 percent is solved below ground, 20 percent of the most remote parts you have to solve above ground, which is not good again. But what's good is that there's an operator's interest in working in the rural space of progress because there are funds for it and there they're going to get funds they wouldn't get or wouldn't be able to extract from their incomes to develop a network in that space. And I think that after the law is passed, the municipalities will realize that this law goes in favor of them, not to their harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115388	Thank you. He will now speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115389	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I don't know, here I hear some statements that the opposition said something was wrong, that it wasn't good, not only did we warn about the problems that exist in the law. If that's the problem, we warn that something's wrong and that we can make it better, then we'd better keep our mouths shut. I don't understand where the problem is. Isn't it clear to us that at the moment such regulations are in force that operators are asking for optics if it's not underground, to be placed exclusively on concrete pillars. How many units, or how many rural areas, have concrete columns? When the Internet will get there unless we prescribe it, and we didn't. So we didn't prescribe it. That's what we're talking about. How do we force these operators to do it, and not that before that we have to force the power to set up concrete pillars to tell the operator if they can do it now? So what goes underground is basically going on in populated towns, in towns, in villages where the huge density of population is, and unfortunately outside of these settlements, it's not done because it's too expensive. So to put this pipeline underground to pull this optic inside, that's not how it's done. Unfortunately here are the operators asking it to be... That's what it's all about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we warned, that's what we're trying to draw attention to, let's define that, let's change that. It was said that here is a colleague who had just said that cities and municipalities, or units of local self - government, were not at a loss and would receive the same compensation. Please show me an article in the law that says it, show me an article that says there's going to be so many kunas? Currently, there is currently compensation in the units of local self-government moving along the long meter, it should go per square metre according to the regulations, but it is per metre from 1.25 kuna to 7.5 kuna. I've never heard of a unit of local self-government having a fee greater than 7.5 kuna. Let's see where it says that the minimum fee will be 1.25 as it has been so far and that there will be a fee up here can be as far as I'm concerned. I'd like to see it in the law. Let's not talk about this rulebook that's currently under discussion about simple structures. What are we hiding here for? That's what a colleague who was in the executive office who knew a lot more about it told us, and I wouldn't want to talk about it. As far as Starlink's story is concerned, unfortunately, no colleagues, but the story isn't exactly like that. First of all, the price of Starlinka is not 700 kuna but you need to pay an advance of 799 kuna almost 800 kuna, it is an advance if you give, after which the device you have to pay, and it comes about 600 euros and then the monthly subscription is again 799 or 800 kuna. So speaking here is not true and let's not fool the public that it can easily get to the cheap Internet, it can't. What's cheapest right now is what our operators are offering us, it's certainly the cheapest, but we have to force these operators not only to do it in urban parts but also to do it in rural areas so that all our citizens have the opportunity to access the Internet. And not to watch what it says on the Index or what it says on the Evening List but to improve its business. We have one part of those citizens who have their own OPGs that have their own small businesses, if they don't have electronic business if they don't modernize, they're going to fail because Europe is actually driving them to do it, the world is driving them to do it, it's driving them to competition. And that's not why he's saying something right now to criticize us, but we just want to improve it, to improve it, that's just the point because there's no law on it. If that's not good, then we won't talk about it now or in the future. But don't forget that over the past year, there's been 5.6.7 laws that are practically inconclusive and we've been warned, we've experienced criticisms like we're experiencing today, and today the law can't be implemented. Among other things, the Law on vocational education forcing parents and children to seek practice for their students. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115390	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115391	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague. I'll refer to what I meant even though I meant something else, to what you said in the end. So the paper suffers all sorts of things, it's equally convenient to see HS statistics, and then, in HS statistics, to see everything HS has brought through the amendments and additions of the law and through new laws, and you've stated that in the past year we've passed the laws and that they've proved to be inconclusive. Nor can this law be implemented directly, in order to be able to implement a series of regulations, regulations, so sublegal acts must be adopted. I have nothing against sublegal acts or I think everything needs to be defined by law, but it is a very interesting practice that is absolutely unequal. In some laws we have quite detailed, and in some laws I don't think that's the case, I think it's intent. We have a lot of big law and scope, but then some things that seem to us to be crucial transfers to a sublegal act. So I'm asking you nicely to comment on the same thing. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115392	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115393	Honorable MPs. I believe that no one here has anything against sublegal acts, but it's that at the moment of the law we don't know what we're voting on because it says it's going to be regulated by the rule. What's in that rulebook? We have no idea, but that rule can completely change a few articles in the law. And there's a problem, which is why I'm warning you already I don't know which time we need to have these regulations as a support to the law, that we know what we're bringing, that we know what we're adopting, that it won't happen later, but we've again passed a law that can't be implemented because some sub-region act defines something quite different or is in conflict with something I don't know what. And that's not the first time, we've talked about it here 15, 20 times, and we're just asking that we all have understanding together to make it better, better, better, and that we know what we're voting for. We're here and we're reading the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115394	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115395	Thank you very much. When you talk about fixed networks and development and what you do in the rural space, whether underground or underground, I think today when we see that in rural space we have a low voltage net on the pillars, that we have a fixed network on the pillars, that we have the possibility of a optic happening so that we push it onto these pillars, they all go with what's easy for them. I see here the responsibility of local leaders, I know by myself what we've been doing and every idea of the realization of a network of optics in every area, it's called that municipality or city, the most depends on the first man and his services. If you're going to insist that what you can go underground is going to be the operator because it's the cheapest thing for him, believe me. It's not easy for him to do it just like that on those pillars because he's working on a large number of connections and numerous nets hanging on those pillars and we can't expect to do it very quickly, but this is one start, one period that took place as it took to build. immovable hate, we thought we'd be faster and we had EU resources that could help. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115396	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115397	Your Honor. The head of the local self-government unit from which I come comes from the ranks of HDZ, and together we have tried to build this internet or optical infrastructure in the area of the town of Krapina, but we have failed to do so, regardless of what is a colleague of the HDZ. I was a member at that time of the SDP, I was at the head of the city council and we tried to do it with common forces in cohabitation. We didn't go against each other, we tried to solve this problem together, and we couldn't solve it. And now we have a new law that doesn't solve it again, which doesn't prescribe it again. How to force an operator who's got to do online infrastructure in the city and to provide a service in the city to force him to get to the rural parts as well. Guys, that's the most normal thing. Let's see, okay, he's gonna lose his income, so what? There's a profit I don't know how many billions, it'll have half a billion less, but our fellow citizens will They'll have the internet, they'll have... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115398	Thank you, Reverend Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115399	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague here I was not in the assembly when you spoke of concrete and some other pillars, but I heard you and I must say that I agree here in that part with you. It's not necessary to have a concrete column just to put a new optical grid on it in some part where it's high-quality and good wooden pillars, so we can put it on. However, this does not apply only to operators operating communications networks, there being little to operators or HEP, to distribution that builds energy networks and those where they have naked guides insist that no optical cables are placed there. However, I even think that even there can be placed optical cables only those who put them must be trained to work under voltage because they can do so in some conditions that then give speed to that work. But I'm still trying to say if it's gonna be a wooden pole or a concrete pillar, so we're not gonna put it in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115400	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115401	The esteemed colleague did not, it was not this goal to discuss whether we would put into law the wooden or this concrete column. I was talking about how we should kind of force the operator when he's already got a job at the level of some local self-government unit to do the job to the last house, to the last user. That was the point. I agree, he said the secretary would be sufining by the state. Is that a solution? At what point will the state call a tender to give someone money in the local self-government unit? Are we gonna settle this by 2027? Are we going to succeed everything we've defined in our NPO plan if we're going to take these steps? I believe we won't. We need to be faster and we need to be more agile, we need to be more pragmatic. Without that, we're not gonna do anything. We'll have problems. We'll have problems that we've had before because we haven't solved in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115402	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I absolutely agree with your remarks where you said that the state should actually force teleopers. In fact, the state in that part of the teleoperator there's no market let's be honest, just like there's no energy market, oil, you have one or two suppliers. And since these are of strategic national importance to the state, the state has instruments. The state, I know that many times my colleague Bulj has mentioned in the last 4-5 years to teleopers she has forgiven more than a billion kunas for concessions they have paid for themselves. And okay, the state can set itself up there. If the state isn't incometing that money, they're going to reroute that money to develop rural parts of the food, those where they don't have that part of the profitability so that the state certainly has instruments that this part of what the cities are, which has a large part to let them do profitablely, however, that part that has a response between the government and them to put that money into rural parts and that's the money they've forgiven, but there was no teleoperator reaction where, where, when that part went down, they didn't cut the bills or they went to in that part of the investment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115404	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115405	Thank you. Your Honor, you've also been Minister of Finance and you know best what they've done and how they've worked and you know it's hard for them to put an end to it. That's all, the property is somewhere abroad, we know how they're running that money from here, so according to abroad, buying real estate and stuff they're doing, and actually that money that's supposed to end up in a state register doesn't end up in a state register. And since the state is forgiving something, I agree with you why it would not be refinanced. That makes sense. And then that's okay. We gave you a billion, but give you at least 500 million to invest again in Croatia to make our citizens better because this is the task of the state, to think about the well-being of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115406	The next one will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115407	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, this new Law on Electronic Communications in Croatian legislation is being adopted by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Code of Electronic Communications, which represents a comprehensive reform of the EU regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications. The new law will allow for the rapid development of electronic communications networks to ensure the necessary connectivity and accessibility of networks of very high capacity including fixed, mobile and wireless networks and their use by all citizens and entrepreneurs. Furthermore, further development of competition is expected both in the area of infrastructure and in the area of service provision through the provision of conditions for new investments in electronic communications networks and services. This law aims to promote investment and further develop connectivity and establish high-speed electronic communications networks and create preconditions for the introduction and development of 5G networks, as well as to ensure equality of access to services for disabled persons. The aim is to maintain the security of electronic communications networks and services necessary for the regular functioning of the economy and society as a whole, with particular emphasis on the protection of national critical infrastructure. The proposed law will for the first time legally regulate the possibility of determining obligations to operators who have not been subject to regulation, and services are provided via the Internet without their own network and infrastructure such as Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook, Messenger and the like. The process of assessing the safety of manufacturers and suppliers of electronic communications networks equipment by implementing a strategic measure from the EU cybersecurity package 5G network, the safety risk assessment shall determine the risk to national security in accordance with the implementing rules to be adopted under this law, as well as the geographical overview of the availability of broadband networks and the construction of broadband networks by state aid. During the public consultation, as well as at the the thematic session of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of HS, the majority of the comments were aimed at regulating the provisions on the right path and the level of compensation for the right path, which was proposed by the proposer in the most part and adopted. And finally, by adopting this law, we create preconditions for the accelerated development of electronic communications networks of very high capacity, including fixed, mobile and wireless networks, especially in rural areas of beautiful ours. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this final bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115408	You, too. Now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, also the final Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115409	Thank you. And in this law, we find ourselves in a situation where we're being punished for not fulfilling our obligations, the law should have been long and operational. The European Commission has already warned Croatia twice over the delay, because of the delay Croatia has threatened the lawsuit, and therefore the fine. The Law on Electronic Communications must be adopted by Croatia by 30 June. Since the deadline cannot be extended because it is a prerequisite as we have heard of the payment of the full amount of the second war of funding from the NPOO resorted to an emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications basically transposes the EU Directive No. 1972 of 2018. in Croatian legislation. The law amended and unified the provisions of the 4 Directives in question relating to the work of telecommunications companies or Telekom, most often with access to the mobile phone network and internet access. What this new law should regulate in relation to the current and current ones is further regulated rights of construction of telecommunications infrastructure, the right path and the fair payment of the passage of telecommunications infrastructure to land located in private or state-owned local administrations and self-government. Croatia's Telekom has lobbyed in recent years to reduce prices, and this law should give guidance that would level the criteria and bring that part into line with EU rules. Since the rights and obligations in this segment fall partly and the Roads Act should not be too much of a problem since the Roads Act has already installed in its part the uniform parameters by which these rights are charged, however, in this urgent procedure the law-making of the right path or construction will not be specified by the formula of calculating the fees by law, but as we have heard an additional rule will be drawn up by HACOM. Law of electronic communications or Directive No. 1972 focuses on three groups of issues, access and what investment in network building, the management of electromagnetic spectrum frequencies for mobile access and end-user rights. In the first group, so-called A gigabitical society means that by 2025. All urban and rural households in the EU ensure a wide-ranging Internet access of at least 100 megabits per second after download, which can be accelerated to gigabitic speed while the 5G mobile network should be spread by 2025, spread across all urban areas and master traffic routes. That's it. The 58th Bill of Law states before us that HACOM every 3rd year. publish a geographical overview of the availability of electronic communications networks, and then for areas where the speeds below 100 megabits per second to operators who have not provided them is asking the official question whether they are planning to do so and whether they take that into account when granting public funds to those operators. In addition, we can only express concern that the goals of a gigabit society in Croatia will not be achieved until 2025. When privatisation of parts of cable infrastructure was prepared 20 years ago, the main argument was offered a narrative on expensive construction of new and faster networks, which is why we need private investors to speed up this modernisation. We are now in a situation where we are practically asking these investors to take public incentive funds and lay down optical cables whose use they will then charge us for. No matter what it is, it is just late alignment as they say by ruling with the EU directive, it is never just a harmonisation, the devil is hiding in detail and it is indeed a pity that such significant regulations are put on the agenda and voted in just a few days, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115410	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj, will speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115411	I'm sorry he wasn't the minister here today, I mean not me, but this is too serious a law. Although we succeeded in the public debate itself, I immediately hired myself perhaps among the first to make a straight trip from 8 kuna to 2.40 that teleoperators were reducing, these are huge damages. I repeat once again that this is not because of any directive it's clear to everyone, this is only because I'm asking here a question of what is being brought into line here with EU directives, this is done in relation to the old law, in fact this is only a teleoper law. So, on several occasions, I mentioned that Deutsche Telekom in essence, which is run by the Misetic dynasty, in fact they run the Croatian people at present and this law is totally teleoperate. As far as spatial plans are concerned, the teleoperators' units are absolutely shut down. I will have huge damage, here is Sinj city as mayor for teleopers and HACOM who do not allow us to do something in the space that is in Zagreb, which is in Istria. But they don't give in other cities. So the teleopers are here primarily... Of course optical cords would be tribals, that means you mention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it should be owned by units of local self-government, not a monopoly again. Because it's basically, or states, essentially national security. We keep giving it to foreign teleopers to manage and charge that part. As far as the eye is concerned, we're talking about the existence of spatial plans and the existence of base stations. Only in the Republic of Croatia does the tribune building permit. They set up base stations and antenna pillars wherever they come up with no matter what the inspections warn. Here's an example... They don't care about Sinya. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is one association and that is why Croatia is the first to corruption, and it is the worst on the Internet. Because we also gave what our old and privatization of our phone infrastructure essentially went into the hands of Deutsche Telekom, so we even forgive them for the concession of a billion kuna in these crises. A billion kunas to Deutsche Telekom, which has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. A system related should be owned by units of local self-government or state. No foreign teleoperators, because mostly when we talk about optical cables, and of course they can't agree on that. Not only do you agree, but you're causing enormous damage in the spatial plan. HAKOM has accepted what was proposed and accepted or made a comment, and of course we now have problems with the adoption of spatial plans, since they set up base stations wherever they fall. It makes sense to you, too, but you'll have problems. You're going to have problems that people are getting away with, and you're going to put the base station on the chimney without a conscience. You laugh because you are well-strained by them, because they are a bribe to you, because you work for them. This law is exclusively for teleopers opposed to the units of local self-government of counterpart Klaric, opposed. They're confiscating the powers of any local self-government unit to protect their space. We're not in the debates at all. Article 25, why did you remove it? Why doesn't Butkovic come and say so? The Misetic family who manages this government can also come, no problem at all. No problem at all. That's Achilles' heel of this government. I know the media isn't going to write because teleopers are too powerful, too strong sponsors, too strong advertisers, and the more we keep it quiet. And I have to say this out loud, that teleopers absolutely this law is exclusively for teleopers. Except, in particular, Article 25, where exclusively, absolute units of local self-government and God's happiness that I immediately held the press in Split and immediately for the right path with 8 kunas to reduce 2 kunas and 40, although 90% is not charged because it is not drawn because it is not owned. So why don't they pay it into a Croatian fund of some kind for development I don't know about education, about unsettled students, about students who are weaker and students of property. No, that goes in the pockets of a teleoper. In Croatia, teleoperators have 42% profit, Deutsche Telekom. It's more than 100% than in other countries. And they're the only ones who don't care about building permits or anything. In Croatia alone, and then know how strong the Mišetic dynasty is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115412	Thank you. Stay, stay. Oh, no, no. Excuse me. It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115413	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Rules of Procedure 238. A colleague insults us parliamentary deputies by telling the truth, because there has never been so much involvement before in the creation of this law, their representatives and communities of municipalities and cities and counties were involved in the making of laws. And through the work of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and through the thematic session, as well as at committee meetings. And a colleague is a member of that same committee who unanimously supported this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115414	Thank you very much. Time. It was a replica you know. There's a warning for the difolt. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115415	Disdains MPs, injures Article 236. First of all, I've only been a member since last session, since Friday, before I was a member, but I've pointed out the possible continuation of the robbery and guessing of teleopers, that with 8 kunas rightly want to take off two kunas and 40. And you've been watching these kicks on the board, because they're your sponsors. The Misetic family is everything to you! So you have the Mistetic Dynasty, and that is the heel of the Achilles. That media won't write, because Deutsche Telekom is... He's an advertiser. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is true. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] They're your sponsors, they're all yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115416	This is the third warning, according to the Rules of Procedure, that you must take away your word Mr. Bull, you can sit down, I didn't kick you out, you can sit down and listen to the others. [[So give me a million! This is criminal law, criminal in the interest of the Misetic Dynasty, Deutsche Telekom, and they do whatever they want.]] Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash...... [[I've got a lot of talk to do.]] Mr. Bull, but why? [[You can't hear me.]] Oh, don't make me... Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS is final. Peace and good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115417	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So today we are discussing the proposal for a law on electronic communications that is in emergency procedure. When the final debates are on behalf of the club, then you have two methodologies. One methodology is to repeat everything you heard that day and then recapitulate and say what everything in the debates was a topic, and another methodology to maybe take some step and give your own conclusion either in your own way or in your own way to say what you think about this law. So I'm going to try to use this second methodology because it's more acceptable and simple for me. So we need this law and there's no dilemma. That's the first line we can all agree on. Are what we get as a proposal we're satisfied with? We're not satisfied by the opposition, we're not satisfied because we thought and we still think we should get rid of some other things. Also, we don't think he should have gone into emergency procedures if there was enough time to go in two readings and to get some other things out of the way. It is always interesting to see who made the suggestion or who was involved in the debate. What was important in the debate was when you are involved in the association of municipalities or cities and points to some problems for a simple reason because it is where the mayors are located, where the mayors who detect the problems are located. Equally, whether we all want to have a fast, accessible Internet and everything else that the present gives us, hot, we want. Do things change in a way that we can't follow at all, and often I feel the laws go with their own one procedure so slowly, thoroughly, and that reality goes differently. When I was in the executive office and I was dealing with a problem that was a major problem in Croatia this problem is called illegal construction then among other things there was a topic of how to try to jump some things and then it was seen that there were, in fact, satellites orbiting that at this point he can tell exactly how many of us are in the assembly. Equally, when it comes to construction, it can tell who bought the cement, how much cement he bought, put on his plot, and when he started building and how much he did within 24 hours and could do his job much better than any construction inspector, and that's the present. The same way when it was there 25 years ago when, in fact, it was big, it started to need the internet and things were of course remember those first phones that we had where you had to drag about one table with you to today as they looked, when individual operators came to the battle that first set up antenna columns. How did they set them up? It's mostly illegal. Who was the greatest in that moment the lawless builder? The state because the state financed it. Then other operators came and then HT didn't give other operators who were VIPNET or were other operators to set up on their own than then we had to have with one antenna pillar the following antenna pillar. The battle we fought at the time, there was one colleague who was then, gone now, but also the battles we led to be prescribed by law that on one antenna pillar all operators must come to and that it would be better to have one higher on which all operators can come than I do not know in space 2 or 3. Look at our little, visions of our little places, even some big ones. So you have places where actually the whole memory of space and image space was where the highest point was the church. Now that church with its tower figures as the highest place often opposes the antenna pillar. This is the result of actually unpreparedness to the situation and changes that have been made. So things change a lot faster than we're willing to change it with regulation. We need to keep this in mind and make the regulation so that it is simple, flexible and applicable. And what do you say? We are running out of time at the end of 2020 to install an EU directive into the law, and we are now in an emergency procedure for the reason that we have been sued by the EU court. What about the way we do it? I think that's it. Enough instead of a conclusion. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115418	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 287 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, were therefore accepted that it was an urgent, urgent procedure and amendments could be adopted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Stjepan Curaj is with us and will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115518	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, as stated before us, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, i.e. by an urgent procedure, the final draft of the law. Therefore, the aim of the adoption of the law is to further harmonise the Croatian legal framework for those open-ended investment funds with the acquis of the EU in the part of the transposition of the directive of December last year, which is the deadline for the submission of 30 June of this year, and this way further alignment is made with the home directive of 2019, but we also propose the harmonisation of monetary amounts expressed in kuna in the current law with the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. As regards only a brief introduction, given that the directive itself is 4 articles, the amendment itself before you is this in law 25 articles of which the vast majority is almost 20 related to these exchanges of currencies. I'll just briefly remind you and the public what this is all about. Therefore, the UCITS Fund itself is an open-end investment fund with a public offering established by the management company of such funds, respecting the principles of three-time risk distribution, so it invests in the joint assets of investors collected by the public offering of shares in the UCITS fund itself in liquid financial assets. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have business and 93 such funds with assets at the end of April slightly above $17.5 billion, managed by or managed by 6 UCITS funds management companies. So what we also have in view of these and the transposition of these directives is what I want to remind the integral part of the EU's single financial market, and we have and we have made our commitment to continuously harmonize our regulatory framework of business, of course, for all the financial industry and so on for the fund industry itself with the EU acquis itself and European standards, so in fact that all of these are intended by the European Commission or the EU in standardisation, in the uniqueness of the market, in the cross-border, cross-border investment opportunities, which was the subject of several months or last year, I think of the amendments, too, of the laws that they had for that purpose. As far as the law itself is concerned, as I have said, we have prepared Directive 2021/2261, but what we are doing here, as a matter of fact, in line with one of the 2009 and 2014 Directives, is therefore one overlapping of a kind overlapping in itself, let's say the definitions of individual investment funds, so first of all, two key or three concepts that we need here to understand, is that according to that first directive, it requires investment funds management companies to draw up a short document containing key information on the essential features of the UCITS funds themselves, so a key Key Investor Document or KID is shortened. This KID or, or the key information document above all, they include everything investors should know when they decide or want to choose to entrust their money to such a fund management company. As regards the 2014 Regulation, it adopted a new, new classification for investors, or so on. PR. IP or... i.e. packaged investment products for small investors and investment insurance products, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] PR. The IPs, so they define what they are and how they are classified and then it actually comes to this fact that these UCITS funds can actually be classified under that regulation and under that PR. IP. What does that mean? That means we had one grace period by the end of last year in which all those PRs were. The IPs had to issue a key information document, so this is the difference here with the issue of a document, and there is a obligation to provide key information, so it is a fundamental difference, and just to take more time for the directive last year, it was adopted to move it for these UCITS funds by the end of this year, so what we are actually introducing by this law is that there is no overlapping or overlapping, rather than just a document with key information to be recognised by the HANFA regulator as an obligation to provide key information which is already by law and by the directive itself. What does that mean in translation, actually? So this means that you have to give that document, a few pages of clear answers to questions about characteristics, about characteristics, risks, costs of investment product, means what is invested, what is all the portfolio of that investment, that is, a package containing a number of different... Investment means investment funds, insurance products, retail structured securities, structured deposits, armed deposits, so that's the package, so you're specifically buying life insurance is such a package. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do insurance companies do with your money that you've put into life insurance? It is precisely diversified in this segment of the investment portfolio, and it must give it to you in this key information document to present what, at which costs and with what risks and in order to make it easy to compare it in the standard form at EU level, is that part of the cross-border that we have introduced to say so in the same language and that the same applies to the same thing. And this is exactly the basic part of this transposition, and these existing UCITS funds are being relonged by this obligation to create this key information document instead of providing it by the end of this year, and we prescribe that when they create this document that they will be considered to be a legal obligation under the directive that they are founded and based on the basis that we have transposed it into the laws they are doing. I hope that, that part of it is as much as I explained this, I mean the data that goes there name, identity of the issuer, type of investment, risk profile, rewards that are possible losses, costs etc., that's all that needs to be presented to the potential investor and clearly and unequivocally standardised and what's very important understandable, as more understandable as possible. During the years 2009 and 2014 and 2017, amendments to the Directive have also been made where a step has just been taken in this standardisation in addition to the formats, information and everything that should be. What we have finally done here with this legal alignment, a certain nomotechnic with the basic directive and, of course, first of all, transposed everything that is related to the coming Euro Act, that is, when I say coming, we adopted it, but we expect its activation, its application. Thus, currency amounts in kuna are harmonised with the amounts in the euro prescribed by the Directive, and the amount of the range of criminal sanctions is in line with the provisions of the Law on the Introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we are timely in harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the EU with a view to avoiding a situation in which the time period necessary for the adoption of the law in two readings would not be timely in force, and is under urgent procedure. Here's my thanks and I'll stay free for all the questions. I'm sorry, just in the end. I would just like to point out that the amendment is accepted by the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115519	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Now we have a few replicas. The first one is a colleague, Josip Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115520	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that we have 93 open-ended investment funds with a public offering with more than 17 billion kunas of net asset value. And now I'm interested in how important these investment funds really are to our economy, to increase investment. Taking into account, on the one hand, inflationary movements and, on the other hand, the expected contribution by investment, and the other is known that our citizens are saving, let's call it quotes, actually ensuring investment in real estate. How to motivate them that he and his capital invest not only in them, but also small companies and medium-sized enterprises in investment funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115521	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115522	Here's a thank you. Yeah, you said it right. I think the answer may be in that opening of yours in what you said at the outset exactly those inflationary pressures and inflation itself is enough motivation to invest money, because it loses a lot faster on value than when inflation is drastically smaller. Surely investment in funds represents, it is riskyly absolute, all types of such capital investment poses a risk. That's why all this talk and these legal changes with these documents today, key information to get to know all investors with risks, potential and gains, but possibly losses. And then these funds that have 17.57 billion structure and property. Most of course they're in bonds, we have some mixed of course in securities, so that's something that's primarily stocky, so first of all there's something where the yields are almost safer something smaller, but certainly better than inflation that's actually a negative contribution to the money you're holding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115523	All right. Thank you very much. My colleague Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115524	Thank you. I'm going to ask the question that's been asked on the board, and here you mentioned that this law is in line with the Euro Law. Here you have rounded a figure of five million kuna in the law to six thousand euros, which means a more unfavourable figure for small investors and a fund will be liquidated if the value of the property falls below 600,000 euros three consecutive calendar months. Almost a comical explanation of a very reasonable question asked why it goes to a more unfavourable figure for small investors. You replied that the financial literacy of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had improved. I'd just say ha, ha, ha. I really don't know how to comment on it. The government is going with the transition to the euro, with an explanation that there will be no price hikes, that it will defend its citizens, and you here in the laws are installing a more unfavourable number of euros compared to kunas. I think it's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115525	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115526	Thank you. At first, I didn't realize this writing thing. It's me today. I didn't mention anything. But absolute literacy is very important. I wasn't on the board, so then I can't comment. As far as your last argument is concerned, if the amount converted into euro would be higher, that means what's 6 million, so if we put a million euros aside from six million kunas, I don't know. This is less, less... requirements, meaning less burden, means less possibility of going into liquidation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If anything was necessary, if the total value of the capital falls below the six million, then the liquidation is opened and everyone loses the insiders. If this is reduced, let's say that in Slovenia there are 100,000 euros less than in Slovenia. Some funds have in the prospectus to decide for themselves, which is the investor's thing to choose which funds they will go to professionally or less and which they are precisely in these key information bringing benefits. So it wasn't that there was rounding up, it was exactly the opposite of rounding up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115527	Thank you very much. My colleague Boris Lalovec has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm interested in small investors. You said there were about 93 funds, or about 6 management companies, about 17 and a half billion kuna. I'm curious now how many of these little investors are there? Do you have any figures and how many small investors are holding you out of these 17 and a half billion? Why? Because we see that in the last few months, indices have dropped, the value of investment funds drops from 10% to 15%. Now I'm wondering if they have to get it, if they're going to have to get that document now with the key to all this information, if it's already too late for them. Because if something ten percent fell, could they now call themselves and tell my people when we invested we didn't have that information, and now you're delivering to the new directives that there must be key information. In other words, whether what can happen since we bring it to the moment of the fall of all these values of the index and whether they can ultimately sue the state for not being sufficiently informed, and now we give them these directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115529	Thank you. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115530	Thank you. I'll start at the end then. So I can't, because they still have a duty to provide key information today. So this is what we can say in a folk way. It's not a neck, it's a neck. So here's simply the UCITS funds had their prescribed obligations. That was key information, now it's going to have to come up with one document that's actually going to take over all the meaning. So nothing's really going to change that much. They simply fall under this second regulation because of their size, styles and classifications, and they were the basics of another directive. As far as the number itself is concerned, there's no record of how much there is in the single investor fund itself, so maybe we can get that from the regulator. What I can say about the property itself and the monthly yield, so the yields are at a power minus 2,02, a stock minus 1,88, a mixed something below 3, the remaining minus 2.51 and a mandatory 1.23 minus. So, of course, all this inflation affects the market but it's far less than the inflation rate itself. So less is lost on this than at the inflation rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115531	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115532	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when we talk about financial instruments, the financial market, then it's a key matter of trust. If there is no confidence, of course, that everything is automatically collapsing and that we can expect at all that this one change will boost our financial market at the time when the affairs and the CNB are shaking, as well as the regulator, or HANFU, which should regulate the securities market. Do you really think that the pooling of two documents into one will encourage small investors with small amounts at a time when they see that the employees of HANFE mechanics are working, and HANFA means director says there is not enough capacity, there are not enough people even to control their employees, so how will they control the entire market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115533	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115534	Therefore, above all, the purpose of these amendments is not to encourage it as such but to fulfil its obligations, to take on legal property, or to increase or ensure a higher level of security or inform potential investor. So that's exactly what I'm talking about. What you're talking about in general for the entire financial market that should start ab this, so from raising what your colleague mentioned financial literacy means the very means of informing you how to invest your money, how to enlarge your capital to, of course, everything that this and the risks it carries. As far as regulators are concerned, therefore, individual cases I do not know, I am not familiar with them and are not in the commenting, but at no time, I have not read in any article that the structure of our financial market or of the actors who are, not only the UCITS funds, investment companies, insurance companies, Leasing companies, banks, etc., therefore only their activities were not questioned in which the questionnaire was not put into question that something was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115535	Thank you. My colleague Brumnic has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115536	Thank you. My dear colleague, I have one simple question that applies several times here you mentioned in your debate, and introducing the question of my colleague that the thresholds have been reduced by moving to the euro, so I'm curious as to what reasons you've been doing it. And secondly, when you're talking about bond funds here and you're making losses of 1.5%, you're probably saying it on a daily basis because in this year, the average loss... The average loss of Bond funds is 8%, and the biggest loss of one of the funds is 14 percent this year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you invite citizens to invest in Bond funds at the moment I think it's not smart or what you'd say on purpose. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115537	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115538	Thank you. So, the sums themselves regarding the first part are from the directive except for Articles 11 and 12, so as we said the thresholds of the minimum value of the property are being done here, which we have now slightly reduced actually enable one, and also more liberal but also higher dose for smaller security investors in the sense that society will not just go into liquidation. So one way is to bring in certain protections. As far as calling is concerned, it is absolutely what we want to avoid here and every time we say that something needs to be done, not everyone has to make a informed decision based on this information that we ensure that someone has to give them when they are interested, and of course we have different kinds of participants in the financial sector itself, so from voluntary pension funds, insurance companies, UCITS investment companies, but etc. [[Intruder: And so on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115539	Thank you very much. A colleague, Brumnic, noticed that you were injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115540	The Honorable Chairman has been injured by the Rules of Procedure in the matter of insulting the common sense of the MPs. I also asked this question on the board, so I got very unfavorable answers there, so then I went home to read everything, including the directive. All of these thresholds you've set are clearly prescribed in the directive so that all of what you're explaining here is an attempt. Something that doesn't make sense. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115541	Thank you, thank you. The Rules of Procedure say that common sense must be offended, but you must not abuse the Rules of Procedure, so there is a reminder. Replica next colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115542	Dear Secretary of State, please make one thing clear. You said inflation is at an annual level of 8% for example, so you agreed with your colleagues that funds lose about as much... Okay, the circus, don't take my word for it, and then you said it was worth investing in funds. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Isn't that illogical? Because then by investing in funds you lose both the value of money and you're still losing and the contribution of the fund, or I think you said wrong. Here, you have a chance to correct yourself. The one who invested in funds is not immune to inflation if the fund lost, if the fund were to make money then it would be immune to inflation. So in the inflation situation, investing in funds that lose is twice as bad. Here, please comment and correction if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115543	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115544	Absolutely so the idea was now that if I formulated it maybe and I did wrong not now, I don't remember exactly what I formulated, but the idea is that money loses the most value when the biggest inflation, that smart investment certainly through certain yields reduces that loss. And that loss, if we're talking about the loss reduction, maybe I mispronounced myself, then it gets smaller compared to how much inflation it is. So if you have a return on investment, after a certain year and a certain contribution that you will get at a few percent level, and inflation is 8% you have reduced the loss by that difference. So what I still have to talk about in what I've been saying about the monthly data that I've been saying, it's monthly offerings, not annual. Not daily, but monthly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115545	Thank you very much. A colleague of Grodana Peric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115546	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As we have done so far and thus with this law, we have done many compliances with the directive, and then I do not understand why this is less quality harmonisation when this is meant to achieve that we have one document that will unite the investor with all the risks etc. and make as much investment as possible. What's the problem here is what's mentioned how that regulator is sub-optimized. Well, it's actually a problem that we just had to prove in the previous period that certain regulations were valid with the amendment of this or that law, and then we had to actually match with the CNB and the HANFA whether or not someone could and how much they could trade some securities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115547	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115548	So I'd like to thank you for your comment. And the proposal of the remarks, the esteemed representative Brumnic said that more or less all amounts are set by the directive. That's what I mentioned except for Articles 11 and 12. That's where we prescribed the lower threshold. Yes, in order to liberalise and enable more flow, i.e. potential and additional fund creation. At the end of the line and increase security, because if the total assets were to fall below it then the liquidation procedure would begin. With this if you lower the threshold then you ensure that in a segment of this kind of market, there is no liquidation. Essentially, all changes go into increasing safety, availability of information to investors. So, absolutely something we have to transpose and something that's common sense, and I don't think I've actually heard any of the reasons here that something's wrong and I don't need it. This is now all another matter of political discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115549	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Secretary of State. You can take your place. Now we're going to argue on behalf of the clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most and fellow Zvonimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115550	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and respected colleagues and all those who follow us, who are with us at this session. As far as the law itself is concerned, therefore this formal part of the preparation of the Law MOST will always be commended for the reason that it takes a lot of work to prepare a certain law. However, on the other hand, it is necessary to put again, so the adoption of this law in one context and let's say to highlight certain things that we as a MOST club disagree with. So we see that in this bill, there are a lot of thresholds that have now been translated into euro amounts, i.e. a conversion has been made. And we would, despite what the Euro Law has already been adopted and that absolutely everything is adapted by the euro directives to enter the euro zone, stress again, so certain dangers that we as a MOST club see as we enter the euro zone 1.1.2023. So, under number one, what's visible is that prices continue to rise uncontrollably, and that's one galloping inflation that will certainly grow at this rate up to somewhere this time next year, which means that if we now have oil 17 to 24 kuna, how much is a liter, somewhere this time next year we're expected to have a liter of oil somewhere between 35 and 40 kuna. Also, the bread that is already half white bread of those kilograms, which now costs already somewhere around €11.12, is expected to be around 18, which means that this conversion that is happening is unrealistic and that certain traders, entrepreneurs, are using this situation to raise prices that will be much higher at conversion than what this product or service is really worth. Point two. We have seen that certain resolutions are not at all ready for entry into the euro area. So it's just being further enlightened now is the fact that we're not ready for such a single shock that recently showed the Resort Ministry of Health when it turns out that information will further increase costs for some 20 million kunas for the reason that IT software isn't ready for such one shock. Of course, it'll all be paid by our citizens. Unfortunately, the affairs around the Croatian National Bank and the HANFA do not stop in particular in this case and over this law, so the Patronate has HANFA. And we have a situation where people who deal with investment within these regulatory bodies have privileged information, buy, sell. In the management of the CNB, there are persons who scavenge over real estate and buy it from the claims agencies. So, absolutely every credibility in these two institutions is lost, and it's embarrassing that these affairs don't stop, and we're supposed to enter the euro area. Furthermore, this should be put into further EU contexts. Germany is on its knees, and many economic analysts talk about it for reasons why energy inputs cannot meet all the needs of the German economy, especially the auto-industry, and on the other hand we saw China as such is a closed market at this time and that the market as such has nowhere to be exported and as such comes to a decline. Not only that, but Germany's energy uses further coal, which is totally out of all the green policies that are being propagated in the EU and of course stopped the closure of nuclear power plants, they had a 6, they went violently closing all six, but they stayed at 3 because they realized that this direction they took would further devastate them. So, all these effects will later be spilled back into the common currency zone and in Croatia itself. Of course, all of this was understood by Bulgaria, which took all these variables, all of the environment around it, its economy, and which has much better, the better situation in terms of debt delayed its entry into the euro area by 1.1.2024. Unfortunately, as for certain packages, the government only reacted when it submitted financial reports to Dobrovskys, Scholtz and others that gave some estimates of Croatia's progress in the eurozone, which is actually just a confirmation that it is a political decision and not an economic understanding. As for certain arguments that I have had today, it is heard that investment will increase by entering the euro area, so the data speak slightly differently. For example, we can take the period of 2013 when we entered the EU and take that when we joined the EU there were several dozen brokerage houses, which is an indicator of the demand for investment in Croatia. Today we have only 13 of them, and half of them are holding banks. So, the number of brokerage houses is, that is, the demand for these services is one of the good indicators regarding investments which unfortunately in Croatia by the number of brokerage houses actually falls. Furthermore, large investors, or large players, regardless of the sector in which they invest, are well aware that the risk premium as such has several risks, i.e. the currency risk as such is one of the risks. However, what few people actually see on the side is something called reputation risk, and let's say Singapore big these hotel funds don't look at which currency is in Croatia, so they don't care if it's the euro or the kuna, but they're interested in the co-ownership of the construction minister who, as such, should be the arbiter in the decision of this relationship between, the pardoned Singapore fund and the Minister of Construction himself, who has a 10% stake. Also, what investors are looking at is that if you have a double citizenship that you can go to BiH for example, take the money, not collect the claim, etc. and never be held accountable for it. And these are much greater risks, and because of such situations, we have lost much bigger investors, and not to say that we have now paid for certain state investment policies but now the punishment of Proficia, we are facing arbitration and Washington for Agrokor, and certain arbitrations that the state is likely to lose in the case of the Dubrovnik golf course. What we should also say is what is actually something that is worrying is that pension funds are falling and that their contributions have fallen now that we've watched, which means that pensions are worth a lot less to us today. And also related to the important investment class that investors are looking at today, for example, agricultural land that prices in Croatia, for example, are about 3,000 euros, which is at the very bottom of the EU, and for us next year or even this one is running out of moratorium when individuals will be able to buy agricultural land that has a very high value and that our neighbours have very much used. The very interesting data I have read today, our neighbouring country of Serbia, which is not yet in the EU, has the value of land that is on Monday when seen twice as valuable as in Croatia and not in the EU. So these, these kind of arguments that are being made that we are now entering the eurozone that will increase investment, will not, and investors are looking exclusively at offerings so that it is an environment that will be secured and when they simply place their capital on that territory that it will be protected and that it will give certain returns over a certain period. The very fact, for example, in the energy system that we find a dig in, at the gas border of course I speak, at the border of Croatia and Hungary and that we haven't started digging gas for 15 years, and that in one Egypt where public administration is far more inefficient than this case in Croatia you get a concession for just a few months. And now calculate and put the math on how many missed opportunities it is and how many missed investments that are independent of the currency in our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115551	Thank you, colleagues. A colleague, Brumnic, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. What about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... Who was looking for an injury? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115552	The Honorable Chairman does not have a President of the Croatian Parliament, but I will once again warn the President of this House on Article 33. The Rules of Procedure which the President of the Croatian Parliament has persistently violated. At this point, I've been summoned to the Committee on Spatial Planning that I can't attend-- here it is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115553	Thank you. I don't know what to tell you. to organise a bit different or one who organises committee meetings at the time of the meeting, but I think it is not a practical Rules of Procedure, although your right is denied, but you will now be speaking on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, please, on the agenda point. [[I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115554	Thank you. Now, when you start looking at this law, then ask yourself the question of where we're going, we're actually starting in 2008, the crisis that was then, and all the thing that the Proposer has put behind the pay phone here is about investment in the past six months, essentially wrong. Yes, mandatory funds are the largest in the Republic of Croatia, there are about one close to 3 billion, but they are working on a loss of an average of 8% and the question is that the risk of this fund prescribed in the key documents is reflected, there I guarantee that nowhere did it say that you could lose 10% in 6 months or that the risk of this fund was not such, but what you need to look at here should look at what this law long-term wants. All these laws that are financially, which are practically passed from the EU today, are essentially certain by the casino, let's be aware of that, when you enter the casino then it says welcome there, and when you enter the sites you can invest through today, then it writes small letters, but it says, everyone who invested through this site has lost between 68, I went to watch 68 and 86% of what page. What are the pages, which, which are the companies that have these sites better these are the losses less, so every investment is a risk. What Europe is trying to achieve in some ways is to reduce that risk, or those who approach the market to protect themselves from themselves. I'm not sure how normal that is, but that's what Europe is currently trying to do, trying to protect those who once invested on their own, today to drive towards the financial industry that will better invest their capital. I am among those who think that I care for myself best and I never believed that someone else can do better than me if you have all the information you need and if you have the knowledge that you're doing something. And then you come to the key problem of this law, which is control, so all this stuff that says in this law is written in all European countries and it's actually good, it prescribes how much money it takes to make something, to ensure something, and then you come up with a problem controlling it. It controls this country of HANFA and HNB, these are two institutions that are like regulators, a colleague Troscott said something about it, but not from that title when he talked about how many brokerage companies there were 10 years ago, 15 years ago, and how many of them there are today, how many companies are operating investment funds, how many of them are there today. In this bill of law, in fact, only art is interesting. 6, everything else is prescribed by the regulation or directive so that it was practically in use and so far, the only thing that we've been breaking that application because the thresholds we set were bigger than, in fact, some of them could have been bigger, one of those thresholds was, only one of them was more accurate, it wasn't supposed to be bigger, and in our case it was, it seems like 10 million euros to me, and we had 80 million kuna, and art. 6th of this regulation tells who can sell us shares in funds or here it is concluded that it should be a society that manages our funds and I must admit it in principle, I say I always think that first I will take better care of my property than someone else will do, it is good to have knowledge and it is good to have information, and on the other hand, when you look at it, I don't know how someone will protect the citizens of this country when they get some kind of fund from outside that might even fall under this regulation sale, you would sell some share because now they're not going to power anymore and there's some kind of problem. All this information that has been kind of structured up to now, I say, should serve to protect small investors, but these small investors in this country have become less and less and the problem of passing laws like this, or when someone comes out for this pay phone and says things that aren't right, and then someone goes in after that to check them and then gets even more scared. It's not the point of governments, nor those who manage systems to be dishonest to citizens, but to be told in certain moments is happening at the moment, the crisis is also in this crisis, you can't write in any key information what happens when a crisis like this happens. It determines the risk of the fund, that in all normal conditions, at the moment of crisis there are no rules and this crisis will make someone profit. Someone used to talk about pension funds, pension funds were forced by law to practically finance the state because it's 100% safe, today it's 100% sure has a half-post contribution, and you have an inflation of 7%, and now the gentleman said invest to lose less, depends on what you invest in, if you invest in something that grows, then you might earn or lose less, but if you invest in something that's been considered very safe lately, and these are Bonds you lost this year. So I say I once said from this pay phone all these laws that come from P.Z.E. The label really shouldn't be much debate here, it should just be a question of how many governments are able to manage the processes and on the other hand how many Croatian citizens are willing to ask Europe or what Europe is offering us. I think that Europe is a good society, a society in which it is much better important than in some others, and I think that I even said from this pay phone that I think they care more about us in Brussels than they do about our government, so the problem of this law is basically control and control of information, and that's what two institutions in this country are doing, which at the moment I'm not going to say "non-trooperable," but I can't control myself. I see that my colleague Zekanovic made an urgent call, but, I say, talking about this law needs to be clear to the citizens that every investment is a risk, that this risk can be paid, and it does not have to, to call on citizens who have called on them to invest, because it will protect them from inflation, and I think it is not wise for the idea that small investors to have as much information as possible, except in the prospectus itself, it would be good for regulators to control and information that is indirectly available to those involved in certain affairs and that this information must also be public at the given time, so here I call on the promoter to think simply about the control system of what Europe is asking us or what we have accepted when we entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115555	I thank my colleague Brumnic. A colleague of Vesna Vucilović, Vesna Vucilović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115556	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have yet another draft law amending and supplementing that goes according to emergency procedure. I will first look at this fact and when we look at the content of this proposal, I really do not understand why this had to go according to the urgent procedure, and in its explanation it says that it is to ensure timely alignment with the legal acquis of the EU because if it is not all within the prescribed deadlines, the European Commission could be initiating the procedure. Indeed quite unnecessary as so many times so far, because there is only one question, whether there is perhaps a lack of employees in the ministry, perhaps there is not enough of you, whether or not another official should be hired, because this topic really shouldn't be sent with legislative proposals by emergency procedure, for this there is absolutely no valid reason other than perhaps some negligence, oversight, failure, but I will leave it to the competent authorities to determine. What is in principle changing these changes and additions, as the Honored Secretary of State said, there are no major changes, the emphasis is in fact on the availability and provision of all necessary data to interested investors, and then they prescribed that instead of two almost identical documents, only one was sent to avoid confusion in small investors. My colleague Lalovec asked how many of these small investors are in principle, we didn't get much of a concrete answer, it seems to me that they're getting smaller and smaller. Today I heard one piece of information that, in principle, there are about a million people in Croatia who, according to all some parameters of how poverty is determined in the category of the poor, of 3 million and 800,000 people, seem to me really much and in some way, when we look at all these affairs that have come out in the media lately, this is very thoughtful, but perhaps a little bit unnecessary, but probably in European institutions, they don't know that the main investors in the securities in Croatia are very well informed because that they are following our media then they would know about these two affairs that are shaking and HNB, and also those who are in charge of regulation, and that's HANFA because we first learned that a certain number of HNB employees are trading valuable papers, so the moral name is whether or not known to all of us, and they are following us as having a real need to know what it is really important and the need to know about the need of the real security, and the real care of the HAN is that the HAN. And then the director of HANFA tells us that he doesn't have enough people to control such activities by HANFA employees and, of course, the first question that we all get is that he's going to follow the whole market if he's not able to control his employees. Of course, we come up with that famous word that's trust. Without confidence, the financial market cannot fully function. There's a lot going on and what's going on with HANFA, and I think it's even more alarming than the CNB thing, because basically after all of this and after that, the director's confession then the question of who's going to trust him and who's actually going to trust him until that doll grain is cleaned up and our institutions, and so so does HANFA, become really institutions that we can trust. We'll still have one situation that definitely won't be good. And for nothing, we have all this great copying from regulations and directives that are generally in order, there are no objections. If we don't have people in our institutions to investigate these things and to clean up, it means to recognize the failures and clean them up in order to regain confidence in these same institutions. We often hear our institutions disassemble. According to this, to conclude that they are being disarmed by the very ones who work there. He also explained to the director of HANFA that he was called a personal banker, so he recommended his investment is just a sign that he should call the director of HANFA and ask him which personal banker it is. I've had it for years, really never called me recommended to invest in one of the securities. Obviously, I have the wrong personal banker. After all this, it is no wonder that our capital market has not come to life by this day. We heard the data that we have a drop in numbers and brokers and all who should actually be very active in the capital market, because all these numerous affairs and failed investments in bonds of numerous companies that ended either in bankruptcy or in pre-emption. So then that steep drop in stock prices during the financial crisis in 2008, 2009 And in the end, here's as cream on the cake of this knowledge of the least spoken of by HANFA's failures as regulators will not restore the trust of our citizens. However, it is likely to be further disrupted, and it is in fact entirely irrelevant whether one or two securities investment information documents are sent to them. In principle, citizens no longer believe that they are safe investments, and after all these affairs, it is hard to believe that the regulator will protect them, so probably that's why they invest. We heard here's a proposal to invest this, that. They know where to invest our citizens. They invest in real estate, invest in agricultural land, and that seems to them to be the safest form of investment. What's worse in the whole story is that a lot of these properties are then staring blank, it's not in any commercial function at all, and it's not even for rent. As for here and agricultural land, it has become a very profitable and interesting type of investment in Slavonia, because it is still favourable to us compared to some other countries, and then we have this fictitious production that serves only to draw incentives. The best example is plantations of nuts that we are at the top of the EU, and by production we are at the very bottom. So you've got land, you plant nuts, you're doing nothing, you're environmental, you're getting nice ecological incentives. No one controls what's been going on here for years. And resume it in the end. It's a waste of laws, directives, changes, additions based on the one that's in principle good. There's no such thing as a grudge. It is likely that no one will buy a single share or a single bond, because as long as there are people in the institutions who are guided by personal interests, the mechanics, they trade entirely whether a small investor gets a potential or real one or two documents of similar content. Our citizens will continue to buy real estate and land at least the ever smaller part that has excess income, and they are less and less every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115557	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Begonja will represent HDZ's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115558	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering in the first and second readings, and the very proposal for a document shows that the adoption of this law is proposed in order to ensure timely harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU in order to avoid the situation in which the time period necessary for the adoption of the law in two readings would not be timely, it would not enter into force. And in line with the deadline for transposition and in order to avoid a situation where the European Commission could initiate infringement proceedings in order to transfer the EU acquis prematurely. So, I would like to remind our public that we changed this law at the end of last year in order to also bring the Croatian capital market regulatory framework into line with the EU acquis in part of removing barriers to effective cross-border trade in investment funds, then in order to align the procedures for notification and harmonisation of different practices applied in Member States in relation to cross-border trade in investment funds. This is why extremely dynamic changes in the EU acquis in this area, and above all with the aim of providing all the necessary data and information to be made available to investors, today we have this new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering relating to the further harmonisation of the regulatory framework for open investment funds in the part of the transposition of Directive 2261/2001 of the EU Parliament and of the Council with regard to the use of documents with key information by companies for the management of joint investment entities in transferable securities, whose time limit is 30 June of this year. Therefore, Directive 65/2009 of the year on the harmonisation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions in relation to common investment entities in transferable securities is required to draw up a short document containing key information for investors on the essential features of open investment funds so that investors can understand the types and risks of those funds offered to them and therefore make a reasoned investment decision. Therefore, Regulation 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on key information for packaged investment products for retail investors and investment insurance products requires the issuer of packaged investment products for retail investors to make small investors available and publish a key information document for that product so that small investors can understand and compare key features and risks related to open-end investment funds with a public offering. Furthermore, that Regulation referred to in Regulation 1286/2014 of the year is complemented by Commission Regulation 653/2017 laying down regulatory technical standards relating to the display of content, review and revision of documents with key information and the conditions for meeting the requirements for the delivery of those documents, as well as the establishment of regulatory technical standards relating to the display, content and standard format of the key information document, the methodology for the display of risk and the rewards for the calculation of the costs, conditions and minimum frequency of the review of the information contained in the key information document. For investors other than small investors of the management company, key information should continue to be drawn up for investors in accordance with the applicable law, unless they decide to draw up a key information document. In such cases, as a competent authority, HANFA should not require a management company to supply key information to investors but should only provide such investors with a key information document. As indicated by the proposer in this law, the bill also implements the harmonisation of kuna amounts from the applicable euro amount law laid down in Directive 65/2009 relating to the harmonisation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions in relation to entities for joint investments in transferable securities. The amount of the range of criminal sanctions is aligned with the provisions of the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. Smaller changes relate to further harmonisation with the provisions of Directive 1160/2019 concerning cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the fundamental reason for these amendments and the additions to the legislation is that the basis of directly applicable EU legislation has led to the obligation to send almost identical documents with key information for the sake of clarity for small investors and to be able to understand and compare the key characteristics of investments prescribed by the already stated directive on the delivery of one document. This is why the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering is amended in such a way as to ensure that small investors receive all the necessary information in one document in order to be able to understand the types and risks of open-end investment funds offered to them and therefore make a reasoned investment decision. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a Public Offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115559	Thank you, too. Mr. Lalovac, Boris Lalovac, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, I think my predecessors have actually said everything about what today's changes and additions to the Open Investment Funds Act are, in addition to harmonising with the EU acquis, the most based is that all the necessary data and information that should be available to investors that are united and that are in one place or the emphasis is on the protection of small investors, while the other changes relate to harmonisation related to the euro and the other directive relating to cross-border distribution. And there's nothing controversial about this bill, the SDP club will support it. And I would just really look back, and it's about this law that a lot is being discussed when these times of crisis are where to invest. And then when one panic prevails, and unfortunately there is a market panic in view of inflation, the question arises whether inflation can be overcome with some other forms of investment. It's very clear here that you can't win. So whoever goes into this battle that inflation today is 10%, and that you with some investment in different forms of investment that you will win that contribution, you will surely be assured that you will lose money because inflation can't fight in this way, is inflation one disturbance on the market, that I don't say one disorder of madness when no laws of economic law are worth, it's not worth it, it's not government, it's trying to calm down the market by number of measures, but the market isn't calming down and that you're suggesting someone that it can win is irrelevant or it's not rational. And the only way to win this long-term is to win inflation is by monetary measures, which is, in fact, another time, the European Central Bank is delaying the increase in interest rates that are still down, and on the other hand, we have seen the American Fed Central Bank, which, by very quickly or aggressively approach, will reduce or withdraw that money from circulation and thus calm what is happening on the market and through this part through certain political arrangements, which are actually following now European leaders to agree these interrupted distribution chains, to bring them into some normal flows. Everything else is actually a scam is impossible to win in this way madness on the market. What am I saying that for? Because here we're talking about protecting small investors, I was on the HANFA site today, and just to see what's on the market today, what's being offered to citizens to beat that part of the contribution, so their savings to lose their savings, and now here's some safe investment to offer. How dangerous it is that in such a way citizens who are in one panic that they are in the part where they are not bound by inflation 9%, and your contributions are 1.2% where you can lose 100% where you can lose 100% and no one will guarantee that when you invest there that you will ever get your money, it is even more dangerous than you will lose a few percent in these conditions. HANFA's warning means this is happening in the last two, three months are very serious what is offered on the Croatian financial market, said on February 25th, HANFA warns not to buy the euro at the address and don't forward it to third parties, so it's a report on the HANFA's website, which means that Croatian citizens are offered either through social networks or through phone calls are offered investments in the currency crypt that have been lost today, or today has actually completely submerged the market of crypto currencies in such a way that you can't get your money at all. And now the crypto currency market has gone down with three thousand billion dollars per thousand dollars, lost on the world market two thousand dollars. Recently there was some information in Croatia that the same large billions were invested in crypto currencies in Croatian citizens, they are not protected, they will lose everything, they cannot access the bases. So there's a stock market here, their market where you log into that site like it's paying you off, but, look, that page doesn't work. You know what digital pressure is you just can't get to your money. Who are you going to complain to? No one. You'll lose your money completely. And that's why it's so dangerous in this way that today many people who hunt in a blur, and not only on the energy market that comes to where we're talking about war profiteers, but on other war profiteers who plant different information on the market, that citizens, because of this inflation, are offering them 12, 16 or 15% of the market in the crypto currency, and then they lose total money, is it a completely unregulated market, a complete urge to lose that large part of the money, and that's what public has to be talked about. They're not protected, those here who are these laws they're as protected as they are. The state exists, there's regulation, there's some kind of surveillance, there's some kind of record of some kind of investment, there's some kind of prospectus, there's some kind of document. There's no document for this. And let us not forget that a large part of Croatian citizens who lost a large part of the money in 2008. on that crash that he could lose a great deal of money and in the crypto currency market. A further warning from HANFA also a few months ago is that HANFA warns against trading on the Trade, Word platforms... or the Market Group that are saying that at the Republic of Croatia they have information about accessing Croatian citizens not to trade trading platforms for trade contracts for differences so-called. more contracts for... even lists institutions that appear to Croatian citizens that do not access such internet platforms at all in this context. And what we see even on some portals is that you pay 100 kuna and then you can and through the portal you actually say that you can protect yourself from investment and say safe investment, safe investment in uncertain times, then you have a flood of that you invest in gold. On the other hand, however, it also warned HANFA that everything you have invested in such a way that no one can guarantee it. You've invested, it's your risk if you're going to get any kunas. Who's on the other hand, who's on the other side, and she's saying that the HANFA isn't even competent at all, so there's no control at all, and they're actually offering various investments in gold. Is today all people lose some money every day, and yet they save some little savings that has run and invests in a variety of here and in some kind of gold this one, but behind that there might actually be nothing hidden, when you have a regulator warning about such things. So in addition to this legal statement which is correct, however, we have a number of other information and protection on the market here for these citizens to invest in krypto currency, invest in gold, invest in a variety of financial products which lure Croatian citizens to make 12, 15, 20% contributions and thus win inflation. A complete lie, complete manipulation of citizens and ultimately if citizens and fall for such information can completely lose their money, they can completely lose money, and when that happens, unfortunately, they always address the government, the state, I lost help. However, it is not a regulated area, it is not regulated, the government cannot answer to any regulators, and that is why it is important here, not what the state here now guarantees some protection of investments but a number of areas that have no protection, which are not regulated and which, unfortunately, is the biggest part of the risk for Croatian citizens, and unfortunately, we cannot cover them with total legislation is not even covered at EU level, but this will prove when this market comes to, and I say there is no market, that is when electricity prices go 400%, as if your electricity network in the country had been destroyed. It's not an increase in prices, it's no power, now it's just a question of whether it's going to be a reduction, etc., when you go 400% of your electricity prices. So what you're saying on the other hand means there's just a complete breakdown, the state can protect, but there are a lot of vulnerable groups, and we have to warn them here from this assembly today that people don't buy into a number of people who even regulators warn themselves about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115561	You, too. Ms. Katarina Peović is the club of representatives of HSS and RF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115562	First of all, let me express my satisfaction that the pro-capitalist parties in this assembly still express some kind of skepticism towards this type of financial investment. I'll try to expose something from another perspective, but the conclusion will be the same, leave any hope you enter as it says to Dante's Hell. But first let's see what it's all about, so this is really one of the more frequent amended laws, I can even say, and we changed the law in September last year, if I remember correctly. The main objectives of amending and supplementing this law were the establishment of a system that enables tasks in relation to UCI trading and TES funds to explain to those who are looking at this, who are not financial experts, which is the goal and our debate here, that UCI and TES fund is an open investment fund with a public offering. The changes concerned the processing of applications for the issue and purchase of shares in the fund, the provision of information to investors on how to make applications for the issue and purchase of shares, and how to pay the proceeds for the purchase of shares and make available to investors of all information and documents of the fund such as: Prospects, rules of the annual reports, etc., were then the aim of removing how this nicely stated obstacles to the effective cross-border trade in investment funds, equating the notification process and harmonising the different practices applied in Member States in relation to cross-border trading of investment funds. However, we now aim to limit information in some way because it has been found that there has been an obligation to send almost identical documents with key information, and it is said that it is for the sake of clarity for small investors and that they can understand and compare the key features of the investment required to deliver a document covering all key information for investors so that they can make an informed decision on their investment. So the excess or lack of information is very careful for small investors to be spotlessly informed and that the amount of information is optimal for their investment. This plus some minor changes are part of this proposal, the harmonisation of kuna amounts from the applicable law with the amounts in euro. In this discussion, however, the committee warned that a reduced threshold for the liquidation of funds had been put into the law, so far there were 5 million kunas, which is still a slightly lower amount of around 4.4 million kuna, which is what counterpart Brumnic said at the time, damage to the investor because the fund is liquidated at a lower amount. It has been answered by the Committee that the financial literacy of the Republic of Croatia has improved, so the citizens are financially written, they may now be slightly strengthened in the event of a reduced amount of liquidation, but why we worry when the citizens are so informed. So the government is going to round up the numbers of the opposite interest of small investors. But we must also say what counterpart Brumnic has also investigated and found that the amount of 600,000 euros prescribed by the directive, but it is unclear why the secretary of state does not say so. And why doesn't he say so? Because then it would have been determined that so far the threshold was too low, but that's too high, sorry too high, but okay. I mean, why don't we just admit it? I mean, here's our goal to get information and that we have a well-refused me if that's not exactly what I said, but it seems to me that the matter is visible from that. All right. But that threshold won't save those who invest in times of crisis because as we are constantly, it means every time we have investment fund-related laws, we've warned everyone okay until we arrive at the time of the crisis. When we're in crisis, then no rules apply, the offerings aren't guaranteed and people lose money. And then here are the two questions, the first question who has the money to invest and is it worth it and is there some kind of high risk? And the second question is, what do all of us who don't have the money to invest in it all together have? So I'll try to answer those two questions. So here the same useful information has been provided by colleagues from Brumnic that the bond funds are making a loss of 8%, right, so people are losing money. So who invested it now loses it. But in fact, the whole point is, these laws and changes always go nominally towards greater protection, increased trust, reduced risk, and are always listed as similar flossules, but actually protection is illusory. If you've invested in funds now you've largely lost, there's no security regardless of what they're telling you. For example, investment funds are always said to be one of the safest ways of investment, which would certainly not have been agreed by those who lost their investment in the last crisis in 2009 or those who are now losing money. 2016 introduced a new version of this same fund means UCITS which is already the third version means this safer form of the fund. And it is always said that it is more investor security and less risk exposure. But it certainly does not neutralize the crisis but only gives legitimacy to a completely insecure and crisis-friendly system. From the beginning, it means since 2008, when the Capital Market Act is introduced, a boom in the capital markets is expected. Since then nothing good has happened for the Croatian economy is often said that we still need more free market as if we left socialism yesterday, is 30 years in capitalism, with investment funds means we always talk about security, and then there is no question of who will be responsible for lost funds. Now, we've heard the truth from a colleague of Lalovec, so there's no one to talk to. You can't talk to the government. I've lost it. It's your risk. It's ours. It's, it's supposed to be an investment fund slogan. Who can even invest in Croatia these investment funds, right? I'll just quote you a sentence not from the journal socialist manual but from Leader, the leader of the media says we can talk about a strong attractive capital market. We don't have an attractive capital market, that's a fact. And who can invest at all? Here, we got lucky in 2014 a report from the CNB that I often mention, but it is really crucial that we have a map of Croatia in terms of wealth and poverty at all. So 1.7% of the people in the Republic hold 43% of the savings or 75 billion kuna in banks. About 50,000 rich people who have 43% of the total savings in the country live in us. On average, 1.5 million kunas per account. 120 super millionaires in the Republic of Croatia have net assets greater than 190 million kuna, including those 11 who have net assets greater than 640 million kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, we have about 150,000 people who have about a million kuna savings on the bank, and their savings are increasing in just one crown year, saving the rich has increased by 11 billion kuna. Imagine, $11 billion, but what people do with those big savings stakes, they don't invest in investment funds. So it's proven to be saving. On the other hand, we all know if one third of the people live on the edge of poverty, that's where the colleagues were taking the data. More than half of the pensioners live on the edge of poverty, wages are among the lowest in the EU, those households that have a deposit at all, with half the deposit less than 2,000 kuna. Otherwise 90% of the savings stakes in banks are up to 10,000 kuna. And then it appears in the media that we have 52,874 kuna per capita, so that's what everyone's jumping on, what 52,000 kunas, that's what some eat the cabbage, some eat the meat, we all eat the charm, right? I mean, we're not all in the same situation. Croatia means there is definitely a lot, there are few of those rich people who keep very concentrated means in their hands a great savings, they don't invest, do they? Otherwise, German private banks have imposed fines on savings of more than 100,000 euros in the capitalist West, and there are such measures as to reduce interest. There is no such thing with us, and if you suggest such a thing, you will be accused of being a hard socialist, a communist, and that what you want is to kidnap her, as some have accused her. So if we want everyone to do well, then it'd be good if at least those rich people put it in at least, and if they don't invest, you should see why they don't invest, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115563	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He left here, I've got all 18 of them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115564	So we're a little bit small, the assembly's equipped now, and the chairman's got TV. You can only watch the assembly or you can start anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115565	That's the one, the one from before, from a few days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115566	Okay, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about investment funds. What I would point out here is that first we are saying in the context of the introduction of the euro into Croatia with the team here can be one question that I wanted to ask the applicant just now because it is a related topic. And the question is how much price increases in retail sales are expected, or we expect that in this huge crisis and huge inflation, we will replace our official kuna currency with the euro. I'd like to make that a little clearer. When we talk about investing in times of crisis, this is an unremembered crisis, there is no sure investment. There's nothing that guarantees you profit or even what you say that guarantees you'll be, that you'll have the same value of money you've had before. What can guarantee a little more today than, means one investment guarantees a little more is investment in real estate, still investing in gold. And here, although I agree with most of what my colleague Peovic said, there are still some investments that are extremely profitable today. It's an investment in oil or oil derivatives. The oil market is highly profitable with gas. You have 300 percent of your income from the coronary crisis. So whoever invested a million euros today has three times as many, maybe even 400%. So, there's a market that's extremely, extremely profitable today, I would even dare say that maybe it's not what's going on in Ukraine by chance, that maybe it's actually been potent exactly, or the intention is to raise the extraordinary price of oil that those mechanics who trade in oil are super-profits. Here you would once again warn the Secretary of State of State about a lapus which he said would not remain in the air, at a time when inflation and when money is lost to values, investing in funds that lose values twice as much, so you don't get that's something that needs to be pointed out. And I welcome what was prescribed by the directive to be that limit, or value for the liquidation of 600,000 euros, and not 5 million kuna, that's definitely good. In any case, there should be laws like this that will facilitate transparency that will provide investment, especially for small investors, but I wish we were a little braver here, so for example. according to the model in Hungary, then Britain has also passed similar laws at the moment, which are specific taxes on those making extra profits from investment in such a crisis. Why would we be libied here? If someone has earned 5 million euros in mixing, let's take one piece of it and make it easier for those who barely survive the existence. Here would be some of my comments on this bill, which in principle is not bad, although I must say that I wish this place had been highlighted at the risk of investment, just like it was in 2008. With one emphasis perhaps very important, and that is that the third pillar of pension where the safest investments are also losing, so that's where we fell the same in the minus are. So, all those who have invested in the third pillar today I think that even the loss to the state's incentives to 5,000 kuna is less than that invested, that is such a huge loss. So here it is now to check, mostly the third pension column, which is the safest investment mostly in bonds and what I know, is also losing its value. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115567	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115568	Well, actually, at the end of the presentation and you responded to what I wanted to replicate, although of course we disagree on many things, and I think that welcoming the implementation of the directive would be, as I would say, even slightly contradictory because what I think now we welcome the implementation of the directive, and what it brings us, I think, what good is for that social working majority in Croatia, it never asks as a question. But this is somewhere on the trail of what we suggested, so extra profits from oil companies, so oil and gas, extra profits are fully sought and justified by extra taxes. So tax is one form of social solidarity mechanism and equalising unequal conditions in society. So extra profit requires extra tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115569	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115570	Dear colleagues. Here's a little clarification, I'm probably the biggest Euroscepticist in HS, but I accept the EU as a reality and there we are in the EU and let's get along in the EU and while we are here. On the other hand, in this directive, you yourself pointed out at the beginning of your exposure that smaller investors are being partially damaged by this bill, in this context I welcomed the implementation of the directive, although I always look at these directives somehow and everything that is being placed on us from the EU is quite critical. I'd like to add one small thing, just to keep a little bit more plastic for those who follow this. Recently, I saw the correspondence of stockbrokers in Croatia and investors who look about like this, says when it's a mess and when my blood is flowing, roughly quoted, calling on these potential investors or investors to invest more money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115571	Thank you very much. Mr. Named Brumnic is also an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115572	Dear colleague, I'm actually able to replicate my colleague Lalovec, but I couldn't, so I'm trying to do something else this way. He pointed out here a problem that the state is familiar with, and when they say that HANFA can't regulate it, that CNB can't regulate it then they're telling the truth because when it comes to casinos, then they can regulate it. So where the state collects profits, you can't open an Internet bookie in Croatia that's not registered in Croatia, so it can be done with sites that offer shopping services that my colleague Lalovec here used to say gold or cryptic currency that wasn't approved by HANFA, except that there's no profit there and then the state doesn't want to deal with it. Where there is a stake in the Croatian lottery or a betting concession, there has solved the problem and said anyone who is not registered cannot be approached. So I call here to encourage the government to protect Croatian citizens and where we have extra profits for the state. And I would refer to my colleague Zekanovic for this when he says that pension funds are losing, in the short term, and that's why I don't like it when someone talks in one month or something can always happen to get lost. In the long run, when you're looking at pension funds they've earned, whether they've earned a lot, a little, enough, not enough that depends on how much risk you wanted to take, or how much the government's risk has limited them in some way, but these pension funds are in plus, and that's some of our money that we're going to have a right to one day, so it's not exactly what he said that we lost, we didn't, we have more money on these money today than we paid. And as for what colleague Peovic said that investments are not good or that, I don't know where she would put something except for something she's trying to do, this when I say preserve the value, somehow earn something. All these instruments that are listed here in the law, and many others in fact serve to take a certain risk to participate in this risk I will tell society because the economy is financed through certain securities, through these securities you have become part of a share in some new business, so that what is crucial in investment and that is Europe understands, but I must admit that I think as well as in the first speech a little too much protecting people from themselves, the key is the information and all this that Europe brings in fact so that those who do not have enough information make these who have information to supply it to them in some way because when you know everything that happens on the market, no one knows it, but if you knew then you would always be in plus. So every time we take that information that we have, we take a part of the risk consciously and that risk is more or less than what our colleague Lalovec said, and that's a profit-related scam, so the bigger the risk you take, the bigger the gain is possible, but the greater the loss, here I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115573	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115574	Yeah, just to answer that, I think if I had extra capital, I certainly wouldn't invest it in investment funds, and somehow I don't think left-handed people are very inclined to do that because fictitious capital is something that we absolutely condemn as capital that brings absolutely nothing good to the social majority. But I would just like to correct you as to pension funds, meaning more prominent economists warn that the second pension column is a pure fraud, meaning where pensioners really lose their pensions. Otherwise, another pension fund was introduced to us at a time when in many countries it was already proven wrong and completely useless for the pensioners was rejected as a concept, but here's Professor. Garaca tells you the future pensioners will be nearly half of the kidnapped and where your 43 million, 43 thousand kuna went missing, so they're critical of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115575	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115576	Thank you. You are aware that two, two, more than 2/3 of the money you pay from your salary into pension funds goes into the state fund, and then when, one third into the second pillar, and when you retire, then this part of the second pillar will be almost half of what you get, so now explain to me how it's invaluable for a pensioner. It's invaluable, I mean, it's bad that this first pillar doesn't work properly, and that's why the second pillar was made to protect as much as possible, that second pillar is your personal property, unlike what is the first pillar that you're guaranteed by the state, and believe me, many workers have put a lot more into the first pillar in their 30s. than they're getting today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115577	Thank you, thank you, no more replicas. And finally, the motionary State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stjepan Curaj, will have the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115578	I thank the esteemed Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, as well as always just one reference to the previous debate on several issues that have been raised. So from the outset, the esteemed representative Troscott has linked inflation, the cost of introducing the euro, so not exactly something that is related to itself, alone, to these proposals. The esteemed representative Brumnic pointed out the problem of control as a key problem by apostropheing probably also on the HANFA itself or on the CNB. As regards HANFA and control, it is precisely through the transposition of such and similar directives and the establishment of a national supervisory authority or at the level of the Republic of Croatia that all assumptions and all the tools and methods that they have on, at the disposition to exercise control as well as in part of Europe are fulfilled. As far as art is concerned. 6th of which is tied to 144, it is more precise in another way, determined who has the right to trade the shares of UCITS funds, so only those who have the Agency's approval whether outside, inside or within the EU or only the Republic of Croatia, in the previous proposal it was also numbered, and then there were conditions for anyone to establish a branch and obtain these conditions, here otherwise, it is regulated. As for the very contributions to bonds in the range of inflations, that we in, let's say in specific times in which last year we had negative contributions on, on money, so the money literally cost if you kept it somewhere, someone was charging you a deck, that we had now come, and then according to that, were negative contributions on and on the German bond, etc., that now we have come to, not six months later or a year later, several hundred percent of times, or I don't know how many hundred base points have increased the interest on the bonds themselves. For the past few weeks, for example, Italy has issued a 15-year bond at 5 billion euros over three, 3.25%. So, obviously, those who invest provide greater yields than and reduce the loss of inflation itself. Well, then it's smarter to invest in such bonds. On the other hand, of course I am never allowed here, and I will never allow myself to invite people in the sense that something should be invested in this, what or any other instrument, but we are just pointing out which benefits are to develop the capital market, or the economy itself, by investing those who, of course, have the funds. Unfortunately, most people don't even have it, it's just an unfathomable dream. But in general, everything we do and in the last two years we come here, there are always these two basic, clear segments where the EU goes. One increase is the possibility of financing the economy through private capital, through an increase in the capital market with a parallel increase in the level of security of the same investors regardless of the type of capital market or the banking sector itself. So these are the parallel processes in which here we have and in the last few months we have had the opportunity to see how the European Banking Union is working on the opportunity to resuscitate the Sberbank itself, so where we kept our savings and we didn't get into the insurance deposit, but we did it the way we did it right here and we proposed a year ago and a few days ago that same law I proposed here. As for the proposal of the distinguished representative Brumnić, how to link gambling to investment, therefore gambling or casino, gambling is as regulated as in any country and concessions are particularly given because we know that there is also one aspect that can be developed in health, therefore addiction, etc. It's not just like that. Investments in financial markets would not exactly be allowed for me to say here that we can identify with gambling such as possibly casinos and gambling and that must be clearly explained. So, there is still something left here and the free will of the citizen himself to decide, and the country that is tasked with setting up a clear, unequivocal framework under which this is done and the rules of the game as much as possible are clear, transparent, also unequivocal when it comes to reducing any possibility of telling someone hidden information or misleading actions in the very story of investment. But de facto every investment is a risk and there's no such thing as security as anyone else can say. Dear MP Vucilovic has been troubled by why it is urgent. Well, it's really 26 articles ahead of you. Of the 26 articles, 16 are exchanges of currency. So what it says in kunas is now in euro. Two are transitional. And now that we're looking at the essence and the scale of this itself, I don't know what in two readings here we'd be discussing twice as likely. So, just by that logic A plus that we have a period of practically 6 months that we get to transpose this into our law, so I think more than met the conditions that should be to go into two readings at once. So she also asked the question of HANFA, their ability to control employees. What I can only say is important to separate here from the possible use of privileged information to gain personal benefit from the protection of the system and what our citizens have invested. So it's with each other absolutely separate. If someone did something illegal, it's illegal and it's prescribed by the law that they're not allowed. Now, how is it discovered, how, when we can talk about whether we still need to increase it safely in terms of control. But that doesn't question our investments, our assets, etc. as regards the regulatory expectations themselves of HANFA itself, i.e. their own powers. The esteemed representative of Begonja has made a summary of all the important changes that are ahead of you, practically what he mentioned most. Dear Representative Lalovac has asked the question of course where and invest, which is now the goal. Of course, there's no idea how to encourage people to invest, so later someone tells him you told me I needed it or I don't need it. Here the absolute goal is to draw attention to us to regulate something, to put something under a higher dose of security. Of course, it is always that decision at the level of the person himself, but surely that the literacy mentioned here is also very important in the development of any capital market in any country, as well as here when we talk about these open funds with a public offering. Dear representative Peovic, I didn't realize about the very restrictions on information. So there's no limit to anything. We have prescribed one regulation, one directive which clearly states that we must provide key information here. This is where the document is now being made for this fund, and there's this overlap. It is also considered by one regulation and by this directive separately and then we have only decided that there is no reddenity, that it is not working twice, that two different documents are not sent, two things, that if one is made to be worth it as if the very meaning of what de facto is fulfilled. As for the reduced threshold from five million to four, the 4.5 Circ is not prescribed. That's what we're left with, so all these fines are more or less prescribed, except for that Article 11 and 12, which tells us about the minimum fulfilment of the capital conditions so the fund can start working. It used to be 5 million kuna, now it's 600,000 euros. It is also the threshold below which if the property falls it goes into liquidation, i.e. by attaching to another. So, with this reduction, we also allow that liberalisation to eventually create another fund to stimulate the capital market and we are not prescribed how much it will be. In Slovenia, for example, it is now six times smaller, so 100,000 euros, so on that side, and somewhere it is not even prescribed, but it is said that the very prospectus of the mandatory one, or... the fund prescribes how minimal it will be. As far as I absolutely didn't realize just as far as we're concerned that we don't have an attractive capital market, we can absolutely agree it's far from what should be, but on the other hand, I didn't realize whether we needed to develop it or not, and I didn't have a little bit of clarity. So it doesn't usually need to be developed, but it's not a good thing it's not developed if I get it right? ... Here I think I got it right then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the distinguished representative Zekanovic has asked a concrete question, so the introduction of the euro as much as it will cost, so we are not the first country to introduce the euro, but many have done it before or later, some have taken 10 years, and Slovenia has so far been a recordr that I believe with these announcements we will be the fastest to meet all the master's that, at the level of these rates, I'm not going to say the least bit of it, the master's criteria well, RM2 zones so that from 0.2 to 0.4% is recorded the average inflation in the change of currency, which, at the rate of these rates now seems almost, so I don't think it't necessarily any percentage is important, but surely that it doesn't mean that it doesn't need to watch out, that all those provisions that we have been introduced by the Law on the euro are respected, absolutely, but we think that given the economic situation itself, it's not necessarily not necessarily important to our priority for the citizens who are already at the risk of Croatia's earlier. As for the further self-respecting representative Zekanovic, he mentioned Hungary and possibly Great Britain for extra profit. Of course, someone who had the opportunity to discuss it here in the last term when there was that extra price of medical equipment at the time of the crisis, unwarranted price hike, here now, as far as our energy market is concerned, unfortunately, we didn't go in the direction of hydrocarbon research 10 or eight years ago, then it was declared unnecessary because we were a tourist country and big objections, so we don't have any production where we would feel that difference in profit. So our dealers buy energy from those who dictated such a price, and dictates the market. Unfortunately, probably when we talk about gas for Azerbaijan, the cost of production remains one euro per megawatt, and 86 is on the market. So, when our dealer and operator buys it, then buys it at 86, not one, if it doesn't produce it, it's the same situation with oil. So on this side, we don't see a direct representation of who can make extra profits from Croatian societies in this part. Here's a thank you, I hope I've been able to count all those topics that were under discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115579	You, too. Mr. Brumnic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115580	Dear Proposer. It's terrible for me that you go out for this pay phone and say that you can regulate the lottery, where the state gives a concession and makes a profit, and that on the other hand, where someone steals people's fake services that you consider it a risk of doing business and that you don't want to regulate it. If you have an HANFA that regulates, let's say trading securities then in the Republic of Croatia you can only access sites that are approved or those that are approved by HANFA or some eu regulator and I would agree with that, but to say that it is practically the will of a citizen to guess which of the pages was created to steal it, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115581	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115582	Then we got it all wrong. So it's absolutely like that today, so HANFA issues approvals for the work of each of these companies that we talked about today, and also these funds by clearly defined criteria, that there are citizens that can go to HANFA's site and I can see it. What is within the scope of their performance when they get that license to offer their investment products is at the level of the free decision of each citizen. Now, the thing about investment concessions is that it's nowhere in the world, at least in these Western democracies present, so I don't know why we would make it up something that turned out to be no need anywhere. So, to separate gambling from investment, to make investment possible by absolute rules, and then we can agree, but that's the case. So, you can't have the conditions, and here we were talking about this threshold so that someone would have and set up a fund for the investment of the sea and very rigorous conditions of the past, and you can register and get the agency's approval to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-14-0.u115583	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, but Mr. Brumnic has a breach of his rules of procedure, if he wants to, if he wants to? He won't. Thank you very much, Mr. Brumnic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, so second reading, that's Bill No. 265. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. THE SESSION INTERNED AT 15:43 A.M.
