ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u82994	So we move on to a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u82995	Thank you very much. Dear and esteemed Mr. Chairman, extremely few colleagues and colleagues, but it's obviously our fatum on Fridays, and Fridays are now the custom of making a brief review of the week. We don't necessarily have to start from Monday we can start from what at least seems to be the most important thing to me. So, our prime minister yesterday while here Minister Vukkovic defended the strategic plan of agriculture for the next eight years was in serious business, he managed to get ahead of the extension of the deadline for withdrawing the money until June 2023. In an extraordinary document, the opposition seeks the replacement of Minister Horvat and asks some questions that are as simple as drinking a glass of water. How many construction operations at one year level can a house be built in the first place? How long does it take for this same operation to do these work? Our workforce is mostly out there. How much money does it take, how do we secure them, and of course how many years will it take to rebuild? Now, here's what we finally have a solution to. The reconstruction will continue until June 2023. So here is the happy news urbi et orbi Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and all those affected by earthquakes will all be over by June 2023. There will be flowers. Another good-looking thing happened over the past week, or week, which ends a little bit, I took an eye on the average price of real estate. In Zagreb, the average price of the square is 2,200 euros, but believe me, these are some year old data, right now if you want to buy a new building for 2,200 euros, you'll do it there somewhere closer to Bjelovar, Virovitica, but in Zagreb you certainly won't. But in case you're in the right position you can do it for 230 euros per square metre, all you have to do is watch out and have the Internet on. That's supposed to be enough. You need to look for information on the sale of the claim. Of course, it wouldn't be a bad idea if you were at that point, by chance, the Vice Governor of the CNB in charge of resuscitating credit institutions. It seems to me quite a relief to the whole project, if you want to get your hands on serious villas for 230 euros per square metre, please you'll still have to make a little effort, it won't fall out of the sky. Of course, in case you're valuable and you do a lot of work, as the Prime Minister himself says about you, then in that case your basement will be restored. Don't worry, the 417,000 kuna amount that we said five minutes ago that the level of annual donations for one charity fund will collapse into the restoration of your basement, and the sick and hungry children will probably settle down from some other sources. What of course seriously itched every man who has one gram of morality are the privileges of MPs and MPs and there has been a lot of talk about it this week, today we have seen two extraordinary statements, I will not list the authors, but I will list them completely, I mean the statements, "I accept compensation, but I am against it," "I use privilege, but I am not happy about it". So, dear gentlemen, if you have anything that bothers you and makes you unhappy, get rid of it, it's extremely simple for you. You have trust e-banking you can handle this in 10 seconds of work. And finally, one news that comes to us from a faraway world, from Canada. There's been protests for some time, you all know it shouldn't be explained to you, but just about ten hours ago in Ottawa, a truck driver was arrested here and his name, a gentleman named Chriss... was arrested in Ottawa, currently in prison in prison without knowing who the devil had arrested him for. It is interesting to look at this case from the perspective of liberal democracies that their rights and political power in this particular case are based on the closure of people who think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83113	In the name of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83114	Thank you. Dear, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues. I want to talk about a good, positive one today, and I'm going to say thank you to a valuable project that has proved to be acceptable, beneficial and that, in itself, brings positive effects in various categories. In fact, it is a project implemented by the Ministry of Labour and already known to all of us, it is about the project “Wishful”, and the task of this programme is primarily the employment of more employable women, especially in rural areas, and finally through the programme provides care for our older citizens. And the implementation of such a project is indeed of great importance to one another. And it is undeniable that the project in its implementation phases has a positive impact on a number of different aspects of the positive effects on local communities themselves, especially rural to here and reducing the socioeconomic problems of individuals and by reducing women's unemployment and the most important thing that the project actually brings is to improve the quality of life of end-users. in this case a person of older age and our citizens who are in an unfavourable position because this is exactly how they are supported in everyday life and of course the project has great importance and especially for those citizens who live in less populated and difficultly accessible places. But as it usually happens to us, there's always some sort of a way to say it, a problem or some kind of shadow, some minus, so unfortunately, it's with this project as well. I am not going to talk about the examples we had of project financing and the allocation of funds, for example, to the underfooted or chess club in Zagreb, while here is the parallel lack of funding in the rural and abandoned villages of the Dalmatian Zagora, but I will talk about how to implement the project. The way in which the project is implemented in the stages that are here is in itself marked by negative effects. It is precisely the period between the phase, this one area of uncertainty and for employees from the project and for users. And here I will say that this programme covers a number of people namely almost 70,000 users are included in it, and the opportunity for work and employment has been given to nearly 15,000 women across Croatia, and this is mostly those who were over 50 years old and those who were outside the labour market. It was clear already by the very announcements of this project that, a few years ago, that he was actually well welcomed, we cannot say that he did not because he caused great interest and we saw how much the need for such a form of care and care for our citizens was, in fact, visible from the fact that in the first stage the financial resources were significantly increased by the planned funds. So far, this project has been implemented in two phases, one of which lasted about 2 years, another year, and here is now the announced new phase that should last more than 3 years. But the problem is precisely the time between the phase, this one inter-periode, the one inter-space gap that I want to point out to this opportunity and appeal to the Ministry of Labour that they are responsible for carrying out the project to try, to find a way and model and to lead to the period between, that this period between the phase does not exist, or at least to reduce and to minimise this gap. The second phase has already been completed almost all over Croatia, and since not all at the same time started with the project, the second phase in some examples ended in the middle of last year. Now, according to the announcements, the new phase will not start until September of this year. So we have a period of this void, unemployment, and not taking care for more than a year. And here I am personally, and I believe most of you know a large number of people and users who are actually in that period and gaps left to themselves and a large number of project employees who are counting the days until the beginning of the new phase, so here I call on the Ministry responsible for implementing this project to settle this issue and to make an effort to bring together the phase and to a continuous implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83179	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83180	My colleagues, my colleague. So where exactly did you touch the coat of arms as you wanted to be prime minister when the only thing that left you were remembered for after you left your ministry, which was to refund the costs of wine and perfume that you wanted to give in the protocol gifts and leave some of your own personal touch? But today I'm actually going to talk about work on hard work and about the consequences and results of work in a slightly different way, I'm going to rely on what Maria Selak Rasudiæ was talking about. Today, we have legitimately objected to the work of the chairman of HS who in some way has demoted the importance, the role, and the responsibility of all of us in our contribution to all topics and discussions. But when I look at what happens to HS as an institution, I think that in all the bad trends there are those who are far more responsible than the academics of Reiner, and that is Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, himself. And I'm not just thinking about that affair that in the media, in the public, and by the competent institutions is constantly being covered up, and it's about the fact that, in his statement by the president of HS, he somehow gave the right to all those who believe that in his actions when he called the Secretary of State in the Ministry of State property, he actually committed or has enough reason to believe that he committed a criminal act of influence trafficking. It's on the side. His larger crime scene and his responsibilities in poor governance and in poor work in the function he currently wears I see also in the fact that on the HS agenda in our rooms, in our clubs there are a whole series of unsettled reports from various state bodies that report their work to HS once a year. Since 2019, we haven't even talked about the reports of some important anti-corruption bodies, and that speaks enough about how far Croatian democracy has strayed and how far the system of mutual checks, brakes and balance has disappeared. In this context we talk about how HDZ's government is a factor of stability is one notor lie, and all of us together, unfortunately there are only three of us right now, four of us in an empty assembly, we can ask ourselves how the citizens see us, if they have a valid reason to throw ourselves at each other with all those ugly, ugly words and feel one deep level of disgust because there are three hours of afternoon, some of the things that HS was supposed to discuss we haven't had on the agenda since 2019, now we're in 2022, but it's Friday and somehow we're all going to be home early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83181	A colleague, Pavić, was responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83182	Thank you very much. Art. 238, colleague Oreskovic insults all HDZ members, just as she defends Mr Pejo Grbin when we know she used the Committee for Conflict of Interest in Political Accounts. That's not what I'm saying. The court suspended half the decisions she made there. Neither Mr. wants be Peja Grbin will be Prime Minister nor will you be in power with him, and that is clearly what the citizens are ordering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83183	Okay, that was a replica, so you need to get a warning. Come on, let's not start with the same stories we used to be. counterpart Selak Rasudić insists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83184	I'll just say it for a little while. Art. 238, I feel humiliated because my colleague Pavić has not now been interrupted three times and has not been taken from him, and he has committed an obvious violation of the use of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure because the injury has not occurred, given your standards that you have previously established.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83185	All right, you let go of my standards, I have them, and you've also hurt your rules of procedure, so you get a warning. And that's what we'll end up with, and I'm sorry I didn't see a respected representative of Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83186	Thank you. So, he's injured. 238, reprimanding. My colleague Pavić would like you to ask your party boss nicely, you want the head of HS whoever you want to report to the Commission for 2019, '20. and in '21. put it on the agenda as soon as possible, so for 2021 when it gets there, we'll see if or not there's a commission as an anti-corruption body at all, and then we'll know who did it. Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83187	Okay, and it wasn't, of course, a breach of the rules of procedure. You couldn't even appeal to some point of the Rules of Procedure, things sometimes get really pointless, unfortunately. We will finish work for today, continue work Wednesday at 9.30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities. I wish you all a good weekend. The session was interrupted at 14:50 p.m. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the honourable representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83336	The Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, after he apparently went out with a post-Blessed child and stopped mentioning the salami or perhaps ate well in Paška Siran, so he was released by the illustration and began to repeat another distribution in public space. It has become his favorite tale recently mentioned or honored to the media then and to the entire Croatian public that in Croatia we distinguish between two groups of people. The ones who work and the ones who don't work. Which, of course, those who work are Andrej Plenkovic and his saint, and those who don't do everyone else. And since the Croatian public, and the reality of this simple division, and especially his work and the work of his ministers, I would like to deepen that same division a little bit. In Croatia there are those who work, for example us who are currently here. In Croatia there are those who do not work, and many of them are sitting in his ministries. However, more than that, the problem for Croatia is those who do only what they should not do, and these are our dear ministers. For example, would you rather Ministers Kuščević, Rimac, Žalac, Horvat, Beroš, and now the latest i.e. right now, and Coric, would you rather if they hadn't done anything or had only done what they weren't supposed to do? But other than those who work, those who do not work and half the government because the other half has already gone to do only what should not be done we have the fourth group in the Republic of Croatia which is the result of the quality management of the land of Andrej Plenkovic. And they're the ones who work without knowing what they're doing. Well, they do more harm to you than to those who do not work, and sometimes to those who do nothing but what they should not do. Like who are they? When asked Andrej Plenkovic if only the higher force was the reason for the renewed slowdown because he is currently boasting about the extension of the period for the solidarity fund, or the correction deadline to which the EU has given it. He joyfully cried out correctly, only a higher force of argument used to solve this. And I'd go back to this 4th group of those who don't know what they're doing, so I'm wondering if we can remove even any concrete consequences on the ground of material evidence not rebuilding, could that higher power be an argument for a triple amendment to the Rehabilitation Act. It is not for a triple amendment to the Rehabilitation Act, where the HDZ itself has given itself almost 10 amendments for the purpose of acting more forcefully. No, the force is not high, but the ability is extremely low and therefore the Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, when you like to talk so much about those who work and those who do not work, I would like to hear a little bit more about what you think about those who run this country together, and these are the ones who do only what they shouldn't do and those who don't know what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83492	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u83493	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I would just like to talk about the government and the same great success that we managed to make solidarity fund in the commission to offer arguments primarily progressive damages or that the Banovina earthquake has affected the damages in Zagreb and that we have shown that this government is working, that this government has solutions and that this government has influence and is fighting for Croatian interests in Brussels. A billion euros from the European Solidarity Fund, of which nearly 700m euros goes to Zagreb, slightly more than 300m euros in Banovina is a clear sign that we have specifically fought for the funds. What's done is replaced by the fact that we're first, that we're late, and then we're not able to use it, exactly the opposite. The deadlines for the Solidarity Fund are so short because they have so far not been able to do construction reconstruction. We fought in Brussels to be able to rebuild construction, and also with the arguments of the extraordinary circumstances of progressive earthquake damage in Banovina and Zagreb and covida we fought to make use of these resources by June next year. When we talk about the total funds reported, so we have 12.1 billion kuna of projects, which is more than just for the Zagreb earthquake, which is more than this billion euros, 8.3 billion agreed, part will be financed through the solidarity fund, and part through the NPOO. Other countries, for example, Italy used the solidarity fund only for accommodation, temporary accommodation of citizens, while the reconstruction was not used, we fought for reconstruction. And then when we watch who works and who doesn't, who knows, who doesn't, who doesn't know, when we compare... Prime Minister Grbin, and the rest of the opposition, we see that this government knows and works. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government provides 12.5 billion kuna for 800,000 jobs, this government has organised 4.8 billion kuna worth of help to citizens to ease the prices of energy growth that both social partners and pensioners' associations have praised, where the opposition is silent, there is nothing to say, where it philosophies, that this government that has secured 25 billion euros for future development and where all these unfaithful Tomoes who did not believe that we will fight the arguments in Brussels, who did not believe that we know, they are unhappy because Croatia can use so much funds for so long, and what we have shown that we are the factor of stability of citizens recognise that only Prime Minister Plenkovic at this time of crisis can lead Croatia and that there is no other politician who can fight so well for Croatian interests in Brussels. So, others are philosophizing, we're working. In the end, he would also refer to the programme "Wishful" which the colleague said. Not that I heard from the left benches, any SDP, any Social Democrats any concrete proposal. This proposal "Zalje" came up with a team, then Minister Ćoric, I was Secretary of State, several of us designed it, we started with 300 million kuna, came to two billion kunas. We also managed to make an argument to the European Commission, the European Commission did not want to make a wish at all in the future operational period, and we fought for it. That hole that goes between the two programming periods will be hugged, and you're as if you're unhappy that we have such a good and quality project. In all, it is the HDZ and this government that shows that the factor of stability within the crisis is to know, to be able, to ensure and when we look at comparisons with the previous government in the 10th century. came out of the crisis, we have the second largest GDP growth, we have a significant wage growth, we have a pension system payment despite all the crises that have occurred in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93370	... And colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] We will begin with today's work and as announced yesterday: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 246, it's going to be our first point. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. My colleague Vucilović, you're raising this to some kind of... Yeah, I thought you might want to replicate me to the title of the law, so I just wanted to know, I just wanted to know, I was just curious, I gave, I might have misread the title of the law, so you're raising the line, okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93371	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President HS, the Honorable MPs and the Honorable MPs. So, this is the first reading of the bill on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act and I will introduce you to the reasons why we are going into these changes. So, the Air Protection Act was adopted in 2019, we regulated the competences and responsibilities of air protection, we set out the planning documents, monitoring and assessment of air quality, we set out measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, reporting on air quality and information systems, financing air protection, we defined administrative and inspection controls, and we also then defined the competent law enforcement bodies, for the implementation of laws, and that is the state administration and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and representative and executive bodies of JLS, i.e. cities and municipalities and regional self-government and countys, and the City of Zagreb. These are the entities responsible for being defined as responsible for the implementation of this law. Since 2019, when we brought it in October 2020. We received an infringement from the European Commission 2298 due to the incorrect application of the provisions of Directive 50 of 2008. on air quality and clean air for the European, for Europe related to permanent and continuous non-compliance with the PM 10 and PM 2.5 thresholds and for action plans for the cities of Osijek, Zagreb, Kutina, Brod and Sisak. So, in response to the European Commission's reply to the official letter of notification, we said that one of the measures, therefore the Republic of Croatia has responded that one of the measures will also be further analysed by the legislative framework, we have assessed that it is necessary to carry out, implement, amend the provisions of the laws relating to the adoption, implementation and monitoring of action plans to improve air quality. We answered that and it was accepted as an answer. Therefore, I note that the existing law stipulates that in zones and agglomerations which have been established that the levels of individual pollutants above the prescribed limit values are implemented measures to reduce air pollution in order to achieve the limit values and target values that must be in line with the action plans. In a specific zone, if, in a specific zone or agglomeration of levels of polluting substances including PM 10 and PM 2.5 particles in the air measured in measured places for monitoring the air quality of state air, state networks with measurement stations in the JLS City of Zagreb, and pollutant measurement stations if they exceed any limit value, an action plan shall be adopted to improve air quality for that zone or agglomeration. We were also obliged to comply with this law from 2019 to today with Regulation 1020 of the European Commission on market surveillance and conformity of products in the section relating to distributors or craftsmen of producers and importers, which I will say a little more about. We were also obliged to comply with Directive 42 of 2004. on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds and the 2006 Services Directive 123 concerning test laboratories with regard to the experience of their personnel. So these are the reasons why we have approached these amendments to the law. Amendments and amendments to the law determine the responsibility and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans. So, in law, in art. The 54th most important change is the way that changes the art. In 54, by introducing a mandatory opinion on the acceptability of the ministry's action plan and which is an integral part of the action plan adopted. The Ministry shall give its opinion on acceptability and shall adopt it on the basis of the previously obtained opinions of the competent authorities of the state administration, the competent authorities of the units of the regional and regional self-government and other competent authorities of the holders of certain activities and measures. It is, so far it has not been an obligation in this fundamental law. Therefore, this amendment, or opinion on the acceptability of the action plan, which is binding on the promoters of the action plans, is primarily given that the ministry is controlling the proposals of these measures and assessing whether these measures proposed by the body in its action plan will result in a reduction of pollution. They are an integral part of this action plan and without the ministry's opinion, so the action plan cannot be adopted. That's not how it's been so far. We gave an opinion that wasn't binding. It is further prescribed that the authorities of the state administration and the units of the regional (regional) self-government and local self-government units or the City of Zagreb and other competent authorities are obliged to implement and finance the measures to reduce air pollution identified in the action plan. So action plans are being developed for a period of 4 years, mainly for a period of 4 years. The responsibility of the leader appears here in the fact that the leader is the one to initiate the adoption of an action plan if, in the field of his agglomeration or unit of local self-government, certain pollutants have crossed the permitted or prescribed level. They must draw up an action plan. The action plan must be submitted to the Ministry within 18 months because in those 18 months it is necessary to carry out public procurement for, for an authorised performer, means for the authorising officer to work on them, to produce the professional work on the regulation of measures, to prescribe measures in the action plan. Within 24 months, that action plan must be submitted to the European Commission or the European Commission Agency for consideration. A draft action plan by the local and regional self-government units must be confirmed by, therefore, adopted, voted by the representative body. Therefore, in that period of 15, of 18 months, an action plan must be adopted, the ministry must be given the consent of the measures prescribed in the action plan, and this must be adopted by the competent representative authority. In accordance with Article 54, we shall add a new paragraph to the monitoring of the implementation of the measures, the timing and air pollution as a result of the implementation of the measures set out in the action plan as well as the public publication of the report. The same Article also provides for a report on the implementation of the measures and the content of the report for a period of 2 years. I'm sorry. In addition, the adoption of the amending and supplementing action plan in case of failure to meet the objectives set shall be prescribed. So we've arranged that, too. The economy ministry therefore sends such a plan to the EU commission, and it must be, a plan adopted by local self-government must also be published a report on the implementation of the plan over the past 2 years. It must be published in, on the web pages of local self-government, regional or city of Zagreb and must be published in an official messenger. Therefore, it must be publicly available to all interested parties who wish to monitor the implementation of the measures set out in that action plan back 2 years. These amendments shall also authorise the Minister responsible for environmental protection tasks to regulate the content and format of the action plan, the way and the procedure for the adoption of the action plan, the obligation of the units of local self-government in the process of adoption and monitoring. Until now, this law was only intended for the minister to prescribe the content and format of the action plan, so we passed his powers on to certain, certain actions. This law also harmonizes certain concepts with the new Regulation of 1020 on market surveillance relating to distributors or craftsmen, producers and importers of certain products. We also addressed in Article 2 the issue of granting consent to the Ministry for the purchase and use of strictly limited quantities of products deviating from the limit values and content of volatile organic compounds. In doing so, we are in line with Directive 42 of 2004 concerning the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds contained in certain colours and varnishes and final processing products for the final processing of the vehicle. So let me tell you what this is about. There are colors that are highly volatile, so far their imports have taken place uncontrollably and market use, market use has been uncontrollable, we have now said that importing and placing on the market of such colors and varnishes will require the resulting consent of the ministry to determine the quantity to use these colors, which is approximately very limited quantities to 5, 6 to 10 kg of such colours. The legal framework relating to the entry of data on small and medium-sized storage and gas turbines in the register and delivery of data on these gas turbines shall be regulated. This ensures the obligation to collect emissions data and deliver reports according to EU rules for specific sources of emissions not currently covered by the law. The database is expanded and is ensured, better inventory will be provided, and thus the exact budget of total emissions of pollutants. So, storage devices over 100 kilowatts should be entered into the database that the ministry has led to so far, and those very large devices are therefore already self-registered through this environmental, environmental license. The legal framework relating to the conditions to be met by test laboratories with regard to the experience of employees shall also be regulated in such a way as to reduce the obligations of test laboratories related to employment in part of the work experience and qualifications of workers in air quality monitoring operations with a view to ensuring a better and more correct fulfilment of the conditions for the launch of the activity and entry into service by legal persons wishing to engage in the activities concerned, while maintaining the same quality of the performance of the job. The Regulation is a provision developed and based on the observations made by the European Commission under the provisions laid down in the Services Directive. So, what's this all about? So far, we have had, as a condition for the opening of test laboratories, a fact of at least three engineers with a five-year experience, under the European directive, the censorship is now reduced, so for the opening of test laboratories and the establishment is enough to have one highly qualified engineer from that brand with five years of experience on these jobs. The legal framework relating to the measurement of the emissions of pollutants from small sheds, the issue of authorisations for monitoring the emissions of pollutants into the air from fixed sources shall be regulated. Given the non-compliance of the CNTS technical specification 15-675, so this is the eu standard that has ceased to apply, we are now replacing it with our regulation that we are going to adopt. The provisions on inspection procedures shall be harmonised and further enhanced by the conduct of inspection procedures in the inspection of the quality of marine fuels placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia, as well as by the supply and use of marine installations. Infringement provisions in that area shall be complemented and harmonised. New infringement provisions relating to the responsibility of the maritime goods commander shall be prescribed if they benefit from products which do not comply with the prescribed quality or if they manipulate marine fuels on a maritime facility in accordance with the prescribed methods. The proposed changes shall ensure the conditions for better implementation of the quality control of ship's fuels, resulting in more quality marine fuels being used in perspective. So, what's this all about? Ships over 400 tonnes when they sail to the ports of the Republic of Croatia must change fuel, so until now the fuel has been fuelled by the amount of sulphur 0.5% now they have to use fuel with these less sulphur tanks by 0.1% and that fact is then controlled by the inspector and, of course, there is a responsibility of the shipowner himself unless these rules are complied with. Infringement provisions shall be complemented in the part of the punishment of legal natural persons or craftsmen unless the consent of the Ministry for the purchase and use of strictly limited quantities deviating from the limit values and the content of volatile organic compounds results. This is what we said was about colors and elbows, so when used in construction or when oldtimers are reconstructed as a museum value then certain colors are used with very volatile compounds that of course must be controlled by the ministry. And here's what I would point out, so that's art. 101, relating to infringements, shall be completed. 101st in a way to punish the responsible person in the City of Zagreb, units of local self-government unless a report on the implementation of measures under the action plan is drawn up, is also punishable if they fail to implement and ensure the financing of the measures envisaged by the action plan, local self-government leaders of the City of Zagreb will also be punished if they do not follow the implementation of the measures from the action plans. The fine is prescribed from 50 to 100,000 kuna, therefore the penalties are serious because we believe that we need to prevent certain behaviours that would lead to the non-implementation of measures from the action plans that they themselves have set ourselves into a situation so that the Republic of Croatia is then punished by the Commission, the European Commission and we pay very high millions of fines, which would eventually be overrun by the budgets of these regional and local self-governments. So, in conclusion, the consequences of the amendments to the law will be achieved by prescribing stricter provisions related to local self-government units, we will in some way try to encourage the world of leaders to address the seriousness of this problem. The obligations of test laboratories, as I said, will be reduced, conditions for better implementation of the quality control of ship's fuels will be ensured, which we also need to do according to the standards, and so far the obligations will not be increased, not new duties are introduced, but existing obligations for economic operators, so the application of this law will not be reflected on the burden of the economy. The amendments to this law have been made to the e-Council since 5-21 November 2021, we have received 10 objections from the City of Zagreb, two objections from the Ombudsman, Andrija Printar Institute one remark and the DHMZ Institute one remark. We accepted something, something refused, but none of the remarks were related to the article. 101, therefore, at the height and on the very fact of the prescribed responsibility, the punishment for the responsibility of the head of local self-government. And I'm just going to tell you another sentence, two, the way the entire air quality control system works in the Republic of Croatia. So, according to the regulation, the Republic of Croatia was divided into five zones and four agglomerations, that is the City of Zagreb, that is Rijeka, Split and Osijek according to density, so according to standard, the population density. In the Republic of Croatia we have 26 measured stations of state character in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so state measuring stations, we have local measurement stations somewhere around 50 and network stations for special purposes set up by pollutants, so potential pollutants, therefore certain industrial plants that have the obligation to control emissions from their production. So the measurement of air quality works, at state stations, the work reference laboratory is DHMZ, meaning institute, state institution, and local measurement of air quality is determined by test laboratories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93372	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93373	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore large air pollution in the town of Slavonski Brod and its surroundings lasts longer than 13 years. The situation is getting harder and worse every year. According to the European Environment Agency report last year, so in 2020 the city of Slavonski Brod was the third worst city in Europe in air quality. Today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Air Protection, but the question is actually asked whether it is possible that the old man was so bad, so unquality, or actually it is about ignoring the problem by the government, by the competent ministry, by the commissions, and then environmental inspections, by the parliamentary board, by the DHMZ, by the city's county administration because unfortunately he seems to have no concern at all so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93374	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93375	The distinguished MPs, therefore, would not agree with your finding that this problem was of no interest to anyone. The town of Slavonski Brod was a topic on our ministry so I'll just tell you the facts, but I don't have time to calendarly show it to you. 6 times the town of Slavonski Brod sent its action plan to us for control and 6 times we returned it because it was, because the measures were unquality, because the action plan was designed by those who did not have the authority to do so and in January this year we had a meeting with them, with the city of Osijek and with Zagreb where we finally instructed them and said that their action plans should look. So it's not like we didn't take care of it. I think the address of the town of Slavonski Brod is people who run the town of Slavonski Brod and who do not understand the seriousness of this problem in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93376	Honorable representative Raukar Galulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I'm guessing one small slip has occurred because the proposal says that financial resources planned in the state budget for the '21s are for the implementation of this law, and I believe it's a failure that can happen to all of us. However, I would still use that to ask you what resources are really provided for in the state budget for '22. With regard to e.g. the problem of cruisers and the sub-optimation of inspectorates to control all of these, all of these situations that we know to be, that they are numerous and, unfortunately, extremely dangerous. So here's if you can comment on that financial side. too few inspectors who could really control the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93378	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93379	I thank the honourable representative, so I can't comment on the number, the number of inspectors, because it's another state body. While the competent inspectorate was part of our ministry in the past term, then it might answer your question, now I cannot answer the head of this institution about capacitation, but I have no doubt that these colleagues are not doing their job seriously. So they're doing their job seriously, the inspectors are always doing their job. As regards the financial proposals themselves, therefore, whoever proposes measures in the action plan must have the means to be provided. Therefore, it is not only the local self-government that proposes measures, local self-government, or agglomeration, that will unite measures and propose as a whole action plan document. As proponents of measures, Croatia's roads may also appear along the passing route, a ministry may apply. Therefore, each one for its own actions must provide for the funds in its budget. That's the essence of this law we've never had before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93380	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93381	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, since we are discussing a topic that is always of interest to citizens in some way, especially when there is a certain excess of air emissions and when it is the main news on the media, we could hear that the European Environment Agency has already mentioned and issued its statement on the quality of air in Europe, although this quality continues to be seen as the greatest health hazard, and even predicted that by 2050 it will be the main environmental cause of mortality among people. For this reason, I welcome all these measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted with these amendments and amendments to the law, and my specific question is given the interestingness of the topic, and we see that, in addition to public availability of data, information systems are introduced both for the protection of air and for the environment concerned by the Ministry, whether these data or information systems will be available to citizens to always see the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93382	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93383	Dear Representative, I also said that, among other things, the obligations of the local self-government and the City of Zagreb as part of the adoption of action and implementation and monitoring of the implementation of action plan measures are an obligation to analyse the effects of the measures in the last 2 years and to publish this analysis on the website of its city and in an official messenger so that all interested people who, who are interested, can monitor and analyse it. Otherwise, to say that air quality on most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is still the first category. In certain urban industrial places it is this other quality, it is precisely the essence of this law to raise that other quality by a higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93384	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93385	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome every advance in our legislative framework that will help my fellow citizens breathe clean air. How much of these changes and additions and better quality of the interpretation of this law will contribute to faster detection of the source of pollution and of course faster resolution? What will this mean specifically for my town of Slavonski Brod, and how much of these changes of law will help solve my fellow citizens' problems? And of course all the ministry will do that and take the initiative to raise air quality throughout the Republic of Croatia, of course, but primarily I think about my fellow citizens who have been breathing polluted air for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93386	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93387	Dear MPs, therefore we are doing this because it is seen that the current action plans which are 5 cities where the levels of pollution are over-sighted, including Slavonski Brod, so we want to lead to the situation that these action plans are first made quality, that measures are realistic and measures are which will lead to reductions in emissions below the prescribed level and that there is a fact of responsibility to know who is responsible for what measures we have prescribed ourselves, we have not foreseen in the budget funds for this all together, and we cannot then seek justification in another. The aim of this law is that we have so far not had to, to determine the entities that are responsible throughout this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93388	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93389	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Horvat, here I'm going to ask you to explain a little bit to us, I see here from the e-consumption that you've been saying that you've had a little bit of this hammered up with the State Hydrometeorological Institute that says that there's a modeling system of adequate emission inventory, etc., etc. As part of the RQ project requires a transitional period, in response here we see that you tell them in quite a sharp tone the State Hydrometeorological Institute is obliged to show progress, etc., so that here we are a little bit informed about what the RQ project is and at what point is it at? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93390	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93391	I thank you, Your Honor. So, briefly in sentence, the RQ project is a project that we need... certain measurement stations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new measurement station from the project will be set up in Omislje. Why did we tell them they needed to speed up? Because they didn't exactly do their part of the term that we were supposed to do according to the project themselves in the terms that we were supposed to do, so and then we finally agreed and ironed it and the project went on, but we needed to say listen, you have your part of the responsibility in implementing the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93392	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93393	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here you are, of course, familiar with this long-standing problem of air pollution, the polluted air in Slavonski Brod, so almost 13 years ago. There is no solution, nor do we citizens see any will to solve this problem. This is if we enter the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development on air quality in Slavonski Brod, whenever we enter that site back 13g. Here is Slavonski Brod is always marked with a minimally bright red or usually purple color, which marks a very high pollution every day. Here, tell me exactly what you're doing to actually reduce pollution and protect people's health because here you have told your colleague Vukovac that you've discussed it six times before, so you've only discussed it or done something, which you've done so far, so you've just been putting those action plans back together, or what are your measures?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93394	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93395	Your Honor, I don't know if we understand what the essence of this law is. The measure of this law is for leaders and responsible persons in local self-government to prescribe measures and be responsible for their implementation. When we spoke to them six times, we returned them because we estimated that the measures they proposed to Slavonski Brod were not serious measures that would lead to a reduction in the level of pollution. This is our mission, and this is a question that you should address to the leader of your, your, your city. Otherwise Slavonski Brod has more problems, the biggest problem is pollution during the winter period due to traffic and of course home bars and 40% is, we estimate from 30 to 40% the impact of refinery or neighbouring countries, so that is, the essence of Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93396	Dear Representative Opačak Bilic has broken the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93397	... Vice President, I think he's hurt. 238 by the Secretary of State. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If, so directly you said that you were not responsible for what was polluted, for implementing the measures but was responsible for JLS. Yeah, but you're the same, you can't just take the plan, say this isn't good and go back to work, so some of you have to take steps. I guess the Ministry is here to take steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93398	Okay, that was a typical replica, so you get a warning. I ask you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure for the purpose of replication. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93399	Thank you. Dear Proposer, this is a really important law, but unfortunately it is a bad law, a law that contains a systemic error and a trap for local self-government. In fact, when I say systemic error, I mean the following, you say that the competent authority for the implementation of this law is the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, so you explained it. However, you have then made it clear that this law gives authority to the Minister responsible, be careful now, for environmental protection matters to establish the content and format of the action plan, the way and the procedure for adopting the action plan, etc., therefore, a systemic error. And when I say trap for JLS, they are asked to come up with an action plan, and the causes of pollution will be determined by a state inspectorate who is in the power of the executive authority, and in this measure that air is not improved at all by the authority. and under the authority of local self-government. [[/Intruder: Thank you, Your Honored Secretary of State.]] This is bad and this is a prank. Thank you, Mr. Rainer, you don't have to get so excited every time. [[Thank you, thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93400	I don't get excited at all, but you've gone beyond 17 minutes, if everyone else has acted in such a way without worrying about the democratic right of other colleagues, then it's not parliamentaryism, so the next time I'll give you an immediate warning after a second when you extend. Here you go, which is where the Rules of Procedure was injured except for you hurting him, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93401	So, in 238, therefore, the infringements of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the purposes themselves. HS and democracy is that you see the biggest problem, what, seven seconds of my excess speech. [[Intruder Reiner: You're getting a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93402	I see the problem with disrespecting the Rules of Procedure that we're all here. [[Orešković: Seven seconds in a half-empty assembly.]] You're getting a second warning. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93403	Thank you. Therefore, how measurements are done and how action plans are adopted, therefore action plans are only adopted for those agglomerations where the annual average finds that particle pollution is not only floating but also other polluting substances over the prescribed sizes they must adopt an action plan. And it's perfectly normal that then it's the obligations of these leaders and these local units to come up with action plans, prescribe measures to protect their population. So, you can't have the ministry wrongly the theory that the ministry will do these things, and of course the relevant data are those that they bring from measurement stations a state institution like DHMZ. So who are we gonna trust if we don't trust DHMZ to analyze that data?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93404	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93405	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. There has been a change in the law itself. 81st, which refers to seagoing or ships, which is interesting for us in Dalmatia. Is it since it is detailed here what happens in cases that this ship's fuel does not meet the standards, has so far been a lot of violations in this regard, has there been a lot of use of such unquality fuel that then violates the eco system and sea and air, and in that sense what is still to be done?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93406	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93407	Thank you. Dear MPs, therefore, a clear obligation of the market inspectorate to control tanks of such ships and clear liability and criminal or criminal liability of authorised shipowners has been prescribed. I mean here, there was a need to exercise control probably because there were violations, which was perceived to be different behaviors. So, ships over 400 tonnes that sail to the ports of the Republic of Croatia, they have to get out of their tanks with a high sulphur concentration, which is 0.5% and above and use fuel with a low concentration of up to 0.1%. This does not mean that there is no danger to our fishing boats, this category does not include obligations for fishing boats, carts, etc. So it's tonage ships over 400 tons, it's mostly these big overseas ships and, of course, merchant ships, etc. So there's no danger for [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] that it would be an obligation... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93408	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93409	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. On the trail of counterpart Dalia Oreskovic's strategic projects, the Republic of Croatia is launching the government on a proposal from the ministry. The environmental acceptability of the project is determined by the decision of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development based on an environmental impact study. The contaminant in these cases where I'm talking, and you know it's about Omislje is companies owned by either the Republic of Croatia or founded by public companies of type HEP and Plinarro, I'm talking about the LNG terminal. Air pollution shall be determined by the contracted report paid by the pollutant or by the State Inspector and by the DHMZ. Based on this unit of local self-government that neither onion meals nor onion smells must draw up an action plan, must implement it, must implement measures otherwise it pays the fine. Where has the ministry and the economy minister been responsible since the beginning for what the pollutant is doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93410	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93411	Dear MPs, therefore the minister is not responsible for what the polluter is doing, it is a responsible polluter. Before being put into office these drives you're talking about, they had to pass a certain screening where we had an environmental impact study, where the measures they needed to implement in their business were prescribed, and the measures should be followed by the inspectorate, unless they were met, it is known who is responsible for the punishment, so it is not the minister in any case. There are also facilities that are subject to environmental permits according to the character of their production, and those in those environmental permits are very strictly prescribed measures that they must take in their business and which are being monitored and that part does not match this part of which you say is the responsibility of local self-government in this regard. This is the responsibility of an entity which does not comply with environmental authorisation measures, or from a study that has given it the consent to start work. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93412	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. You say that the quality of air in Croatia is satisfactory, and the European Environment Agency has been saying in its report for years that air quality in Croatia is a cause for concern. They estimate that as many as 5,000 premature deaths each year are due to poor air quality. From Kopački rit to Koprivnica, there is no measuring station that is part of the state network, so now you tell me that these local communities that depend on the state budget will address the issue of setting measurement stations, the issue of quality monitoring by competent institutions whose prices go up to half a million kuna, and they have no money and depend on the state budget? All this seems to me like a hollow-to-empty spill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93414	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93415	Thank you. Dear MPs, so I don't see that it's a spill and a hollow, we're just trying to sort this out the way it's arranged in EU countries. There are a lot of stakeholders in whether we will succeed in this business, so start with people in local self-government, up to the ranks of all interested or compulsory participants and even to the ministry. So, it's not a simple job and it can't be arranged by prescribing norms in this law, but we tried to do it and I think if there's a need to in the space from Kopački rita to Koprivnica where there's a measuring station, otherwise there's a measuring station there, it's not possible that the City of Osijek can't finance a measuring station that costs a million kuna per year. Is that a problem for the City of Osijek?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93416	Excuse me, I have to give my first word, did you request respected MPs Vucilović's violation of the Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93417	... in Osijek, but what about Nasice, what about Belisca, what about Donja Miholjc, with one mobile measuring station, they would solve it, but they have no money for it. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93418	Okay, it's a typical replica and I'm asking you nicely, look first you're in line on behalf of the counsel club all you could say then. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Of course you're getting a warning. Here's your honorary secretary of state. Actually, no, you answered and now the next question is the respected representative Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93419	90% of European cities are exposed to pollution, reducing their lives by eight months. Life in Croatian cities is about how financially responsible and powerful the city is to secure measuring stations. In Varazdin, 300,000 kuna was provided precisely for measuring stations so that this air quality would actually begin to measure and that citizens, based on all these values, begin in some way and resolve their health issue. Here's what's crucial is the question of responsibility, the question of what the ministry is in relation to transferring some of its responsibility to assessing the quality of air to HZMO expects that in this whole story about protecting health and air quality, why will the ministry run away from its part of responsibility. It seems that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93420	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93421	Thank you. Dear MPs, so the ministry does not run away from its share of responsibility. We are the executive authority that needs to build a legislative framework on how the other bodies in this matter will act, the inspectorate, the city, etc. And we've clearly defined that here. What we can do, we can define a particular policy that will help these cities reduce the fact of pollution. I'm going to say here because of the weather a brief piece of information, so 2020. The Environment Fund has made 11 calls and worth 430 million kuna, 2021. He made three more calls worth 525 million where local self-government leaders could come along, and the question of how many people came forward, who was willing to consume these funds, and I have here information on how much realisation is. Therefore, responsibility would be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93422	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93423	Thank you. Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, according to the data available and some of the feelings I have, I think that a large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia actually has a quality of air that many European countries do not have. However, of course we have points where this is not the case, there has already been mentioned on several occasions the City of Slavonski Brod, and you yourself said that pollution in Slavonski Brod 40% comes from our neighbouring Republic of BiH, so I am just curious about what communication our ministry has with the bodies in charge of air quality in the Republic of BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93424	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93425	Thank you. Dear Representative, the ministry had talks with the BiH ministry in the previous term and on the subject of Slavonski Brod, or Bosnian Brod, the refinery, certain shifts were made. As far as we have information, we no longer have that level of emissions and pollution towards Slavonski Brod as we have so far. Of course, it should be said here that this pollution or pollution is increasing during the winter when we have a traffic problem, when we have a problem of individual home lodges people continue to lie on wood, that I am not talking now into the situation that we will have in the future because of the collection of energys where things will go cheaper in logic. We have here and shows of sulfurs that don't come from another country, so the ship's a little more complex.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93426	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93427	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. When we look at these promotional videos for Croatia as a tourist destination, everything breaks from beauty, health, pure untouched nature, and that is fine when we invite tourists to boast about what is good. It is similar when we look at the data of relevant institutions that are obliged to report to the public on air quality, but then we have to ask ourselves why citizens are being sued, why are they protesting Slavonski Brod, Zagreb, Donji Miholjac, Belisce and more or less all places near the waste management centre. And these are just some of the many places where citizens complain about bad air quality, and our institutions say everything is more or less okay. Here we have heard from the respected secretary of state air is first-class quality, so let's see what the European institutions say. I've been following them for a while, and those reports keep saying the same thing, air quality is a cause for concern. They even say there in 2014 that the costs related to health and caused by air pollution amounted to more than 2 billion euros per year. So sickness, related costs, agricultural losses, health costs, etc., it is taxed that they have reached that 2 billion euros. I've already said over 5,000 premature deaths every year due to poor air quality. In three air quality zones, standards were poor and exceeded, so it is not only this Slavonski Brod that is often mentioned and which we all know more than Zagreb and a whole series of others, Kutina, Osijek, a whole series of other parts of our Croatia where increased excesses are recorded for floating particles, but also nitrogen oxide and some other compounds that are also bad and spoil that air quality. Also, what you're saying is that there aren't enough measurement stations. According to data, there are 155 industrial plants in Croatia that must be authorised under the Industrial Emissions Directive. The highest 39% were in the category of other activity, so it's mostly intense poultry or pig farming, 25% of the waste management sector, 15% in the mineral and cement production sector, we still have 3 cementers and 6% in the electromagnetic sector. Now what were these industrial sectors our source of significant amounts of air emissions? The electricity sector for sulphur oxide emissions, nitrogen oxides and most heavy metals, then the sectors of the category of other activity for the emissions of non-metaable volatile organic compounds and ammonias, the refinery sector behind nickel emissions, and so on, a smaller part of heavy metals. The following sectors were key to water emissions because it is connected, we cannot separate it from each other, chemically, refinery and electricity sectors, and the industry of non-hazardous waste management. Industrial sectors that produced the most dangerous waste were refineries, waste management and metallurgy. The largest percentage of non-hazardous waste was created in the waste management sector, and then in the sector of other activities and the electricity sector. And now we see a lot of things going on with these changes and additions to JLS. As I and the county councilwoman at one of the county meetings of the county assembly, I asked the same question about air quality because we have problems both in Belist and Miholjc and Nasice wherever some of the facilities that are still in that category of pollutants, people complain, something may be subjective, but we don't know, as long as we don't have measurement stations we can't know exactly what air quality is. As I said, we have a Kopački rit which is usually a nature park, so I guess there should be air quality good, I don't know why it's even there, maybe the rose wind is that I don't know, and there's not a single measurement station that's part of the state network until Koprivnica. So we have 75 automatic stations in Croatia, but only 27 are part of the state network, the rest are either part of the local networks or measured polluters. Now, I have to admit that I'm being skeptical here because that's how I feel about that cadiya suing you, cadia judging you. They measure pollution themselves and we have to trust them on the word, I don't imply anything, but I still believe more in state stations and those who are part of the state network. Soon we will have new two measurement stations in the city of Osijek, but again we do not solve the problem of those potential places where people really complain, they come to me, they send me messages via social networks, they contact me from Belišce and Miholjc, but also from Najsic. This could be solved by a mobile measuring station. I don't know why you're not thinking in that direction, I've also asked the Minister of Resort and it's relocated to JLS again, and it's kind of like a ball being transferred from local self-government to the ministry and ministry again to local self-government, and the result is that citizens are inhaling air that's questionable quality, and we see it from EU reports. So if the official agency at EU level says that the air is such a quality that it is a cause for concern we have no reason not to trust them and now we are re-suspending these changes and additions to JLS, but they have no money, they depend on the state budget anyway. 2 billion and 200 million kunas are foreseen in the state budget as funds for JLS because they do not have enough, especially those in Slavonia where we have something more of these industries and where these pollutants are and how they will pay for the measurement that the State Hydrometeorological Institute has to do and that goes up to half a million kunas, let alone install the measurement station. They just don't have the money for it. So, we have a case in Lower Miholjc of that biogas plant, where you've had absolutely all the inspections, they've identified a number of irregularities, there's been waste mixed with municipal waste and taken care of in that biogas plant. That's what the inspection found, something moved on that point, but when, when citizens were protesting, they had to protest and go out on the street to block the road so the trucks wouldn't bring that mixed biotopast with municipal waste to get something, to move something from the dead spot. Although now there is biowaste and sewerage mud coming from Italy. From Italy. The citizens of Belisca are also complaining. So building measurement stations in every place isn't possible we all know that. They're too expensive to have in every city right now, but with mobile stations, they could handle it to get citizens to breathe air of appropriate quality. And I really need to point out that this is a very serious problem. Transferring a ball to the cities, to the municipalities, to the county will not solve the problem. We also have the Environmental Protection Fund, we have the Ministry, so we're investing a terrible amount of money in hydrocommunication projects, so we're building a water, sewerage network, so can't we just separate some more to set up measurement stations, take mobile measurement stations, and then really be the first quality of that air, as the respected secretary of state says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93428	The next club of representatives will be that of HSLS and Reformists, and will be spoken by respected representative Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93429	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, climate change and environmental destruction are a threat to all of us and to the whole world. The EU has been acting proactively in this area and has become quite a lot, it has set quite high goals to address these problems. The European Green Plan intends to turn the EU space into a modern resource efficient and concrete economy and provide us with a net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The European Commission has therefore adopted a number of proposals to reduce the net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, climate and energy, transport and tax policies. Compared to 1990 levels, air quality and associated system become increasingly important in modern society to study how growing environmental, health problems especially in developed urban centres. Croatia and Europe are densely populated, and 80% of citizens are expected to live in cities or near cities. Cities often share the same problems as poor air quality, high noise levels, greenhouse gas emissions, water scarcity and waste. In the space of the Republic of Croatia, the period of strong urbanization and creation and mass consumer habits marks our time and consequently affects air quality. However, in the last few decades, there has been a general rise in the environmental awareness of the population, and the issue of air is increasingly a public topic. In particular, this has become expressed in Zagreb and other major urban areas as a consequence of emissions from the waste treatment system and specific industrial plants such as refineries. In Zagreb, this is also the result of several serious environmental incidents as well as unsolved waste dumps, which directly affects the air quality of almost all inhabitants of New Zagreb. Unfortunately, while there is a trend in raising awareness about environmental protection, there is a real risk of air quality distortion, especially because of the latest energy crisis, as citizens will be forced to use different fuels for economic reasons that can significantly affect air quality. We will soon become evident witnesses. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection is almost all elements of the harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation, and in this respect HSLS has no specific objections. However, we consider the disputed part of Article 7. We support the amendment of Article 7(3), which empowers the State hydrometeorological institute to conduct modelling for the purposes of and professional analysis of the data on emissions of pollutants and the determination of the contributions of certain sources of emissions from various pollutants in the air for the purposes of drawing up action plans under Article 54 of this Act. We believe that one of the basic activities of the State Hydrometeorological Institute is monitoring air quality and managing the state air quality monitoring network. Given that the State Hydrometeorological Institute is professional, human and technical trained then it is logical to conduct the above mentioned modeling and professional analysis. It is known that the State Hydrometeorological Institute is setting up a modelling system in the process of establishing an expansion and modernisation of the state air quality monitoring network. In that context, the disputed article, paragraph 4. Article 7 which adds that it is not and is not in the existing law, which refers to a situation where the state hydrometeorological law is not able to carry out modelling tasks for the purposes of professional analysis of the data on the pollution of substances and to determine the contribution of certain sources of emissions to various air pollutants for the purposes of drawing up action plans referred to in Article 54 of this Law. In this case, the State Hydrometeorological Institute is obliged to ensure that these transactions are carried out without delay. It is not clear here what are the circumstances that can prevent the State Hydrometeorological Institute from carrying out its basic activity since the establishment, the establishment of a modelling system is carried out within the framework of the enlargement and modernisation of the state air quality monitoring network. If the system is not fully ready, it is more logical to determine the real time when it will be established. According to the proposal for this law, it is clear from the materials delivered that, by supplementing the law referred to in Article 7(4), it is not an obligation arising from the European Directive. We also recall that as part of the implementation of the public consultation procedure, the State Hydrometeorological Institute itself felt that the new section 4 in Article 4. The seventh law is not necessary and has been proposed to delete it from the proposal. Just an explanation of the change in art. 7. in further materials is not processed in an adequate manner, which we consider to be a major failure, and according to the proposal of this article, the state and hydrometeorological institute may or must assign a job for which it has been designated by law to do so. We believe that this article is designed to be suitable for manipulating and assigning jobs beyond criteria and supervision, and as such it may be contrary to the public interest and we suggest that it be rejected, in particular, Art. 4. 7th. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93430	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, and the honourable representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93431	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So these changes and additions are an important shift in the fight against air pollution and, at first I say, the Green-Left Block Club will support them in this first reading and again in the hope that you will accept the comments and suggestions from this debate. Our remarks are next, so the commission is May 12, 2021. It adopted an EU action plan to achieve a zero air, water and soil pollution rate within the framework of the European Green Plan, which is unfortunately not mentioned in this proposal to amend and supplement the Air Protection Act. The plan sets out the main objectives of reducing pollution by 2030 and targets the 2050 targets, so a healthy planet for healthy people, especially with regard to improving air quality in order to reduce the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution, so by 55% to 2030. Of course, a number of initiatives and measures including the following are listed in the plan, harmonising air quality standards with the latest recommendations of the World Health Organisation. Contamination is the main cause of a number of mental and physical illnesses and premature death cases, especially when it comes to children, people with certain health problems and elderly people. People living in poor areas often live near polluted locations or in areas with very large traffic flow. The non-toxic environment is also crucial to protecting our diversity and eco-systems because pollution is one of the main causes of loss of biodiversity that reduces the ability of the eco-system to provide, to provide services such as carbon sequestration and air and water decontamination. According to a recent report by the European Environment Agency on air pollution in the EU every year, more than 400,000 cases of premature death, including cancer. There are not very easily searchable data on negative health impacts in Croatia, but according to the European Environment Agency, it is estimated that only of the floating particles of this PM 2.5 we have about 1,000 premature deaths annually in Zagreb, and for Croatia is an estimate of 50 to 150 premature deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. I said all of this briefly because of our citizens to get this necessary information so that we could all become more active together about this fight for cleaner air, and unfortunately I say in this proposal there is no word on this action plan from May 21st. In the public debate, the Educational Institute “Andrija Stampar” made several remarks, and most of these remarks were adopted, but she was rejected about the inclusion of biological particles in the law, e.g. Allergenic plant species that emit pollen and slow, so-called natural source of air pollution. Based on scientific facts, the risk of the impact of these factors on the health and quality of life is increasing, and the particular impact on urban environments and the economy as a whole. In the EU, the economic burden is estimated at 7.4 billion euros annually for the invasive plant of the type of ambrosia. In Zagreb we have a good, good base network for monitoring allergen pollen in the air whose capacities should be strengthened according to climate change adaptation priorities and sustainable development. And that is why we propose to the ministry that we reconsider this remark and put it into these changes in the second reading. The fact that pollen is not defined by the EU directives is considered not to be an obstacle because the directives, at least as far as we know, do not prohibit additional parameters in air pollution measures. And I think and I think DHMZ rightly made an observation in the e-consultation to delete the added item of the article. Art. 7, Art. 4. 7. of applicable law, and of these amendments. 1st.. Therefore, in that position, this paragraph DHMZ shall have an obligation if it is temporarily unable to perform modelling tasks for the purposes of professional analysis of the data necessary for the production of action plans from art. In 54th of this law, he is therefore obliged to ensure that these transactions are carried out without delay. It may be important to say that in terms of modelling for the needs of action plans, the process of preparing the emission scenario for certain simulations requires a certain amount of time to be added and time needed to produce a model, let's say a certain simulation at a high resolution. It is not about plow and play computer programs but for meaningful work on these jobs it is necessary to understand the delicateness of the process so to say and the products to be sought, the quality of modeling output results for the needs of the design of action plans depends, of course, on the adequate input data of the emission inventory. This entire modelling system is through the RQ project in the development phase and must be completed by the completion of the project in mid-2020, so let's say for a year, just over a year and until then it is necessary to provide a transitional period for DHMZ obligations relating to modelling. In fact, I do not think it is known that in the Republic of Croatia there is an institution or a private company that has such a modeling system that could be engaged until the end of the RQ project when this modeling system will be in full operational storage. And that's why we think it's really necessary to delete that chapter 4. 7. and simply wait for the modeling system to complete and start its full application in mid-'23. And we also believe that the remarks made by the Advocate General in e-Advocacy on the ambiguity of the reason for the transfer of these obligations from the ministry to DHMZ are justified and we think they should be reconsidered and even accepted in the second reading. In general, it should be pointed out again and again that the attorney general is a state institution representing and protecting the interests of citizens and has been very actively involved for years in air pollution problems and, of course, related legislation. We therefore feel that her remarks should be considered a little more seriously. Therefore, we further believe that there may be a need for closer regulation and thus to affirm the need for research into co-financing, research and inclusion of indicative and innovative methods of monitoring air quality in modelling for air quality assessment purposes. This current text only mentions citizens and associations without any indication of how to participate actively, so we suggest that this is specified in the second reading of this proposal, specifically in art. 7th century 15, for example. The ministry, units of local self-government, are obliged to develop an active environment for the involvement of citizens and associations in actively achieving air protection and improvement objectives. And finally, we agree and agree with all the remarks of colleagues who are very simply to say about the illogicalities of the provision, I will end up with the illogicality of the provisions which obliges the heads of local and regional administrations to implement action plans, and the main contaminants are nevertheless under the authority of the state. We all remember the same study of environmental impacts that have been paid and then rejected in court, so it can't be unfortunately some good parameters. So we don't think the local administration can. and self-government is the only one responsible because the state... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93432	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak with a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93433	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. The area of air protection is governed by the existing Air Protection Act which determines the responsibility and responsibility for air protection, planning documents, monitoring and evaluation of air quality, air quality measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, air quality report and data exchange, air protection information system, air financing and administrative and inspection control. During the implementation of the existing law, it was observed that it was necessary to prescribe clearer and stricter provisions regarding the responsibility of the local self-government and the City of Zagreb in the adoption and implementation of action plans. Therefore, in the amendments and additions to the law that lies ahead, it is more detailed and clarified. The proposal for a law determines the responsibility and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting action plans to improve air quality, determines the responsibility of the ministry in the part of the adoption of action plans to improve air quality through an opinion on acceptability which forms an integral part of the decision on the adoption of the action plan. The provisions of the Air Protection Act provide for a clear definition of the obligations of stakeholders relating to the implementation of measures defined by action plans to improve air quality. It is prescribed that in the event of non-execution and non-implementation of the planned measures, or failure to meet the objectives set, it shall, where appropriate, initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the air quality action plan. It shall be authorised by the Minister responsible for environmental protection tasks to regulate the content and format of the action plan, the way and the adoption, the obligations of the units of local and regional self-government and the ministry in the follow-up and adoption of action plans. Infringement provisions shall be complemented in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in the event that they do not ensure the implementation and financing of air pollution mitigation measures established in the action plans. Infringement provisions in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb are also complemented unless reports on the implementation of the action plan for improving air quality are ensured and the implementation of measures from action plans to improve air quality. Infringement provisions shall be complemented in the part of the punishment of legal and natural persons unless the consent of the Ministry for the purchase and use of strictly limited quantities of products deviating from the limits of the regulations laid down in Article 48 is established. The legal framework relating to the entry of data on storage devices, gas turbines in the register and the delivery of data on the same and the administrative framework relating to the conditions to be met by test laboratories with regard to the experience of employees as well as the legal framework related to the standards and measurement of emissions of pollutants in the air and small homes shall be regulated. The provisions on inspection procedures and further improvement shall be harmonised, improving the conduct of inspection procedures in the inspection of the quality of marine fuel placed on the market as well as in the supply and use of maritime facilities. Infringement provisions in that area shall be complemented and harmonised. In relation to the existing law in Article 90, it is added that an environmental inspector may order the supervised person, inter alia, to implement an air protection measure from the action plan or a short-term action plan if they are not implemented by the supervised person. As regards infringement provisions, Article 101 shall be complemented in such a way that the responsible person in the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb is punished if he does not draw up a report on the implementation of measures in the action plan to improve air quality. A new infringement provision for a responsible person in local self-government units is also added, unless it implements and provides funding for air pollution mitigation measures established in action plans to improve air quality. A new infringement provision for responsible persons in local self-government units is added if they do not follow the implementation of the measures in action plans to improve air quality. Namely, I come from Slavonski Brod, an environment that has been stigmatized precisely by an underquality way of interpreting the provisions of the existing law and from the town of Slavonski Brod has created a city case, we are surrounded by businessmen, tourists, and many others. And the secretary of state said in his statement that the town of Slavonski Brod is a complex case. These changes will certainly contribute to a more transparent presentation of data, but also to better and better-quality action plans that oblige the identification of sources of pollution, the size of pressure on the environment and the measures and deadlines in which the community must take action to reduce the adverse effects of them. In the area of Slavonski Brod, the level of polluting substances including PM 10 and PM 2.5 of the air sulphur pipeline has been recorded for years on several occasions, measured at measurement sites for air quality monitoring, state networks and pollutant measurement stations that exceed any limit value. The causes of these pollutions were not only from one source, the refinery is as far as we learned from the media connected to the gas, but unfortunately there does not stop fighting the Brodjans for clean air. There is also a set of different sources that come from industrial plants, transport, small sheds, waste dumps, gas stations and other sources of pollution. Accurate identification of the source and the adoption of new updated action plans to improve air quality for Slavonski Brod would achieve as soon as possible the regulation and achievement of the minimum limit values that the citizens of Slavonski Brod deserve. I therefore welcome any progress in our legislative framework that will reduce the impact on the environment and on my fellow citizens, but also ensure cleaner air for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The current obligations do not increase and new duties are not introduced, but existing obligations for the businessmen that have been laid down by the Air Protection Act so far remain and will be taken over by this law. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93434	On behalf of the SDP representative's club, a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93435	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the EU's long-term goal is to achieve levels of air quality that do not endanger and affect human health and the environment. Floating particles, nitrogen dioxide, and ground-floor ozone are today considered to be three polluting substances that affect human health the most. Exposure during maximum concentration and long-term exposure to these pollutants depends on the severity of the effect from respiratory disorder to premature death. About 90% of European city residents are exposed to pollutants at concentrations above the level of air quality considered by health, for example. Small floating particles in the air are estimated to reduce life expectancy in the EU by more than 8 months. However, when it comes to the health and life of people, no statistics are favourable enough except for one that is neither needed nor designed because there is no threat. The law or proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act determines the competence and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans to improve air quality. A mandatory opinion is being introduced on the acceptability which is an integral part of the decision on the adoption of the action plan and is given by the competent ministry. It undertakes that the bodies of the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb as holders of certain activities and measures are obliged to implement and finance measures to reduce air pollution identified in action plans. It is also prescribed to prescribe reports on the implementation of measures for a period of 2 years. New infringement provisions shall also be introduced for units of local self-government unless they implement and provide funding for measures to reduce air pollution. In 2021, a public consultation was concluded on the proposal for a programme to measure the level of pollution in the national air quality monitoring network, and in this proposal there is no information on whether the establishment of a state network for permanent monitoring and quality of air quality has been completed. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5th century. 4th century. Regulation establishing a list of measurement sites for monitoring the concentrations of certain air pollutants and locations of measurement stations in the national air quality monitoring network, the state air quality monitoring network should use measuring stations owned by pollutants by 31 December 2019 until then, 6 new measurement stations that have not been established so far should be two in Split, one in Zagreb, one in Omislje and two in Osijek. So the e-consultation is over, but in this law it is not clearly spoken of. The reason why the measurement station for monitoring air pollution is planned and with these large cities in Omislje is quite clear, I have warned of this since I entered this honorable home, and I have warned in my replica, though indirectly, the secretary of state. Due to delays and failures, I wonder if it is true that the assessment of air pollution in the agglomeration of Split is, for example, in the absence of two planned measurement stations, using data from two measured polluters, which is contrary to the regulation, and thus to the law, while only one measurement station located on Vis was established in the area of the entire Split-Dalmatia County instead of the planned 3. Why aren't there any current state of the state of the state of the network in law and data? Since these data are not available, the ministry should continue to provide an assessment of air quality, it is now in debt, DHMZ is in charge, so the proposed legislative amendment removes the current obligation of the ministry to ensure an air quality assessment. And we return a little bit to Omisalj and the key problem that I wanted to highlight in my replica when I asked the Secretary of State about the responsibility that the Minister in the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which signifies the acceptability of the project for the environment which actually pollutes the environment, and all the basis of the Environmental Impact Study and despite numerous objections to the illegal, inadequate, unprofessionally written, under a very large questionnaire adopted Study of Environmental Impact, this study has been adopted and the Ministry has issued a solution on the acceptability of the project itself to the environment, since the Ministry has also prescribed measures that must be implemented under this project, and one of the measures is also monitoring of air quality, the pollutant, here I am talking about LNG Croatia companies and implemented this air measurement, and has notified JLS, and here is the conclusion from one of such measurement that, according to the regulation on the limit values of pollution in air pollution, the need to the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the air, can be carried out by means. And you know what air quality states? With regard to the target value of the ozone, whose danger I was talking about, I'm talking about the terrestrial ozone, so the target value of the ozone has been exceeded 32 times, which is more than the allowed number of overruns and nothing, nor has the purity or suitability of air cleanness measured at that time at which the regulation was to be measured, nor has the results been satisfactory, to anyone who has exceeded the value, the acceptable value of the ozone. And you know why nobody's doing anything to anyone? Because there is no responsibility because the polluter of the company owned by HEP and PLINACRO, therefore public companies, because such a company and its activities were accepted by the Minister of Environment and Energy at the time, today by the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, by its decision on the acceptability of the procedure on the environment, because no one cared about what they were saying about the environmental impact study, which I said was adopted, because no one cares what is being violated and the Law on the natural gas terminal, so let's say for a million and for the first time here I point out that there is a provision of law that this terminal must be under the Croatian flag, and today it's under the flag of the Marshall Islands, I guess for tax reasons, so nothing. And then don't tell me that the Minister of Environmental Protection or the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, who is the main propagator of a project that doesn't meet both environmental and economic and security standards is not responsible, is very responsible, and has signed a solution that is acceptable to the environment, has prescribed measures that one should control, and no one controls these measures and is now imposing JLS on these changes, the Omishal Municipality to draw up action plans, to implement measures from action plans, to deliver reports on the implementation of these action plans, and if it does not, imagine little, from the pockets of Croatian citizens will also be paid out of the pockets of the same citizens who have pointed out their objections to this particular project and from the pockets of those citizens who have to inhale this very terrestrial ozone which was not measured at the time when it was prescribed by the regulation and who has shown unauthorized. Well, from this speaker, I am telling you that for the local self-government unit of the municipality of Omisalj and its citizens and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the only and exclusive responsibility in these cases is the responsibility of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, in such a non-compliance with the legal rules and of this kind of adjudication of the lives of these citizens and allows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93436	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats. The Honorable representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93437	I thank the respected state secretaries with their co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues here and this time we have the amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, which the law of the Republic of Croatia is in line with European legislation and, of course, whenever we talk about improving the air protection sector, either the environment or other natural resources, of course, that we in the Social Democrats Club are looking at them aphimously earlier and that we will always support them. Because we are aware of this issue as well as of the issues of the future in view of here and of how we are actually treating our planet, and we are equally aware of this issue and as questions of the present in view of the circumstances in which we live and we know in fact how important it is to raise awareness and improve the legal frameworks, and even more important than that is to apply all the provisions adopted. So here's when we look at the proposed changes that are in front of us today, they don't come in any particular way. This is about compliance with European regulations, but I will mention one paper supplementing the infringement provisions in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in units of local and regional self-government and/or in the bodies of the state administration in case they do not ensure the implementation and financing of measures to reduce air pollution which are previously identified in the action plan. Now, reducing air pollution is one big challenge and it should always be repeated that, as I said, the most important thing is that what we prescribe to start and apply it. Because here we are inclined simply to have a bunch of these strategies, suggestions, plans, ideas, measures, regulations, laws, here's everything that's often left just prescribed, and there's no implementation anywhere. The secretary of state confirmed in the introduction that there are actually frequent deficiencies. I will continue here through the debate to serve examples from Slavonski Brod because here I come from here and we have this many-year problem polluted, i.e. No more polluted than polluted air, so here's a easier way to speak from these examples. But I believe that all these examples actually apply to all of Croatia, to the conduct of all of Croatia. Well, that's how it's gonna be, when I talk about this indiscretion and non-implementation, I'm gonna mention only a part of those cases. In particular, the Committee for monitoring air quality improvements in Slavonski Brod, which was founded by the ministry, despite the constant and daily excesses of the permitted value and concentration of hydrogen sulphur and the permitted value of floating particles, this commission is nevertheless not regularly, does not discuss, or should I say meet too rarely on average every two years, which is completely contrary to the situation on the ground. And then here's really why we can say that we have a reason to warn about the implementation and application of the provisions that we finally make. As far as I know, the Ministry of Health has been constantly reporting from 2016 on the available results of an environmental impact study on the health of people in Slavonski Brod, but unfortunately these reports are lagging behind even though we all know that air has been polluted to such an extent that even the European Environment Agency has issued a warning on several occasions for citizens of Slavonski Brod to limit open-air activities and even here that sensitive people should not leave their homes. We have been dealing with this problem for almost 13 years now, and we know that polluted air has a harmful effect on human health, that here are endangered and respiratory systems, and of course headaches, dizziness and allergies. Here's to saying even malignant diseases, and all of these are actually caused by the shortness of life, and we kind of as laymen can say it, but we don't officially have this report because here we are behind for years. And that is why this application of the provisions adopted is crucial. So here I will pray and respond to the Secretary of State, one additional interpretation and explanation related to this second paragraph, concerning the introduction of penalties for units of local self-government and government bodies in the event of non-implementation or financing of air quality measures, because somehow, by introducing this obligation, we will not change much again. If we look at it somehow like we have some let's say the zigzag system, here's what I'm going to try to explain. So far, there has been an obligation for these bodies to develop and adopt exactly such action plans, and before adopting and adopting such plans it was necessary to submit the action plan to the ministry's opinion on acceptability. And this opinion on the ministry's acceptability was an integral part of the proposed action plan, with the ministry's opinion on acceptability being given on the basis of previously obtained opinions again by the body of the local self-government unit, the regional self-government. So it's kind of a zigzag. In order for the ministry to give its opinion, it must first agree with the local self-government unit, then grant them the same plan again. I kind of feel like we're going around in circles. The key item on the monitoring of the implementation of the measures remains the same. In Article 54, paragraph 11 is now the same and talks about monitoring the implementation of the action plan as prescribed by the Minister. So we've already had that provision, and it stays unchanged, so here it is, the implementation, I hope it doesn't run out of moves this time. So we've had that rule so far, but we haven't really had much of a celebration. When we talk in general about monitoring the quality of air in the Republic of Croatia, it is being monitored at national and local level through a network of measurement stations and made up of state networks for the permanent monitoring of air quality and local air quality monitoring network in the counties and cities, and we have here, included and measured becomes special purposes. In particular, there are two measuring stations in Slavonski Brod which, except for, behold, are constantly marked by extremely high air pollution, as I have shown this morning with a bright red and mostly purple color, often one of the two becomes a failure. And here, just this month, we're seven, I mean, at the beginning, here, ten days ago, one of the stations was broken down, I think, a week ago, and I think two days ago, it worked again. And here, I hope that all further questions, here, responsibilities and planning documents and activities and monitoring of air quality from year to year, will be at a higher level and for the end, here, as I said, we aphidably look at this Law even though here, we warn that in this part, it does not provide what we all in Croatia want and all of what we deserve, and that is that we have the right to protect health and the right to clean air and here, only in that part we see a lack of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93438	In the name of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now speak the esteemed representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93439	Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Therefore, the existing Air Protection Act transposing the EU acquis from air quality and emissions of pollutants into the air has defined the competent authorities for the implementation of effective air protection and improvement. The competent authority for the implementation of Directive 2008/50 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on air quality and clean air for Europe is the authority of the State Administration responsible for environmental protection, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Next up, Art. 7 of the existing Air Protection Act is prescribed that the efficiency of air protection and improvement is ensured by HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representative and executive bodies of the unit of local self-government, so cities and municipalities and regional and regional self-government, so County and the City of Zagreb within their law of a specific jurisdiction. Administrative and professional tasks of air quality protection and improvement, as well as the implementation of air quality protection and improvement measures, shall be carried out and provided by the authorities of the state administration, the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb responsible for carrying out environmental protection activities and other legal entities with public authority. The existing Air Protection Act provides for measures to reduce air pollution in areas and agglomerations which have been established that the levels of certain pollutants above the prescribed limit values and target values are to be implemented in order to achieve the limit values and target values that must be in line with the action plans to improve the quality of air from art. 54 of the existing Air Protection Act. But what if all the above do not do enough? So residents of Slavonski Brod city are still waiting for the birth of an action plan to improve quality for the town of Slavonski Brod. So it will obviously remain for at least a few months while the public debate is on the draft action plan, and then probably there for Easter 2022, citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod and wider surroundings will find out if they have a new action plan at all, or maybe that plan will go, as far as I understand, in the 7th period. In addition, we have heard that existing measuring devices are broken every little bit. Citizens of Slavonski Brod and surrounding areas with air pollution have been struggling for more than 13 years. For so long, the citizens of the city of Brod have warned of the impossible conditions of life. They warn of the threat of their constitution to a guaranteed right to a healthy life. Art. 70 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is defined as providing conditions for a healthy environment. The same article defines how each person is obliged as part of his powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment. What concerns most is the fact that Slavonski Brod is about extreme pollution, or environmental disaster. It is often those very contaminants consisting of floating particles containing a mixture of metal, lead, cadmium, carcinogenic benzene. Their concentration in one hour can reach 329 micrograms per metre cubic, which is almost 7 times the limit. Medical experts claim that during an increase in the number of floating particles in the air, there are more emergency interventions and more seizures in people suffering from lung disease or asthma. Patients who ask for help are often children. The cries of their parents no one has the right to ignore. In parallel with everything, therefore, the Penal Code also defines crimes against the environment whose elements can be detected with a simple eye in the current situation in which the town of Brod and the wider surroundings are located. The risk of pollution faced by citizens of Slavonski Brod, but also recently the inhabitants of the Bosnian Ship, taking into account the work of the potentially largest polluter so far, is oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship, within the context of the sociology of risk can be classified under the category of organic risks produced. Produced risks are the work of a man. It's not about natural disasters, droughts, earthquakes and the like, but it's about human intervention in nature. They can also be classified under technological risks that arise from the needs of different types of technology and are the product of human activities. Although there are other sources of pollution in Slavonski Brod, the refinery in Brod, which until recently worked on oil and coal, is particularly controversial because as a source of pollution, the citizens of Slavonski Brod did not choose it willingly but also because of the extent of pollution. Also, the fact that oil came all the time while the refinery worked in the Croatian pipeline JANAF led to a conflict between the public and civil sectors in the Republic of Croatia. In the context of risk sociology, we can say that in this case the climate of trust and good communication of authorities and experts towards the public is lacking, which prevents effective risk management. For a long time, the public has served various information on the modernisation of the plant, deadlines for reducing pollution and so on while better communication to institutions with citizens, institutions with citizens could contribute a long-announced project of education and informing citizens about the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, the town of Slavonski Brod and Brodo-Posavina County. Therefore, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2018, which is unfortunately not implemented. Let us hope that the recent arrival of gas in a refinery in the Bosnian Ship will bring modernisation of the plant and the transition to the gas of those systems that still operate on oil or coal as fuel and thus contribute to a common reduction of pollution. However, the battle of the Clean Air Brodjans does not stop because the refinery is not the only source of pollution. There is, among other things, a border crossing in the town of Slavonski Brod as well as a number of other companies, and many of them are in direct or indirect jurisdiction of the state itself. In their long-standing fight for clean air and the right to a healthy life, the following concrete requirements of the Brodjans have been crystallized and I consider them necessary here today again. So, above all, the requirement that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries, the county and the city respect the constitutional obligation is taking as far as possible to protect the life and health of citizens of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. Therefore, including the recording of the source of pollution, their type and quantity as well as the taking of the necessary sanctions. Then request that Croatia be involved in the process of issuing an ecological authorisation for the operation of the Bosnian Ship refinery on the basis of the ESPO Convention, so the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. Therefore, conventions defining international relations in cases of cross-border pollution. Then the completion of a project to produce a common air cadastre for the Bosnian and Slavonski Brod so that the institutions and the public can have publicly known information on air pollutants. Next, the Directorate of Civil Protection at the MUP, through the service 112, set up an online connection to warn citizens about air pollution. The implementation of the education and information project is required for the citizens of Brod-Posavina County. The Institute of Public Health is required to complete and publicly present a study on the impact of pollution on the environment and the health of citizens of Slavonski Brod. The Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection is asked to continuously ensure that air pollution in Slavonski Brod does not occur. This also applies to a monitoring committee for air pollution in Slavonski Brod, which is not being met. In the event of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, we can conclude that economic interests, unfortunately, have an advantage over environmental protection and the preservation of human health. So the Republika Srpska government favored Russian owners of the refinery for making profits and adapted laws without taking into account the damage caused by pollution. And the government of the Republic of Croatia has been missing the mechanisms available to it all this time to protect its citizens. Let us hope that these changes and additions will bring the citizens of Slavonski Brod as much desired instruments that will be useful to them and their children, and not only a new dead letter on paper, as well as the transfer of a ball from one yard to another when it comes to ensuring a constitutionally guaranteed right to clean air and healthy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93440	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, rare colleagues and colleagues, here to begin, dear Mr Horvat, I will ask you to dedicate a few more minutes after we have finished the discussion that we, on behalf of the motionary, once again enter deeper into the relationship of the ministry and the State Hydrometeorological Institute. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Here's what you said in a way that doesn't work very well. So here in these about 20-minutes, I looked at them have, the modern state-owned firm has and Twitter, here on February 16th it was 2 days ago, their tweet I'll read it entirely, the state-owned air quality monitoring network Sisak 1, followed by Rijeka, a reference book and was placed so-called. hashtag project AIRQ obviously people are doing something, and then again a little bit following their site two weeks ago they released some more stations into operation, all the competitions for a new series of stations that will start working on spring obviously when it will be possible to run the works. So, here I'm just asking you to give us a little more details about your relationship with the State Hydrometeorological Institute, they claim to be doing their job, so here, and I see here and in this communication of yours within the e-consumption that there are still some problems. I think people, the public have a right to know exactly what's going on here. With regard to these legal changes or amendments to the Air Protection Act, it is clear to all of us that in modern times air pollution poses an exceptional threat to the health of the population, but it can, of course, come from different sources. We will take a look at the study, although already 6 years old, which was developed by the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine in 2016, and financed by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. The results showed that the proportion of pollution in Slavonski Brod is related to floating particles from the border town of Brod maximum 40%, 60% is the share that needs to be solved by Slavonski Brod itself. Of course, here, as colleagues and colleagues have already warned in the debate, it is also necessary to consider, of course, the direct contribution of the major extremely traffic border crossing, of course the so-called so-called traffic crossing. remote pollution factor. Slavonski Brod is located in the plain, so it is open to some major air mass shifts, thus thus potentially limiting the air pollution itself. In practice, unfortunately, it is once again shown that the action plans for the period from 4 g. They're making a 3rd year, so we need a lot of time to make an action plan, and then when we bring it in, we're already at the end of the implementation period, so it should certainly speed up a little bit. We also welcome the provisions of this law, which introduce the responsibility of the state administration body, including the Minister himself, unless they are adopted, do not implement and provide measures to finance air pollution measures. This is absolutely necessary because, of course, without responsibility, it all means nothing together. It is also mentioned here several times the case of air pollution caused by non-standard oil spillage from the ship's warehouse by Janaf, so the question arises and how to prevent such cases in the future. We heard it ourselves, the ministry is one thing, the state inspectorate is another, but of course the state inspectorate doesn't have enough people, briefly and clearly, human beings are sub-disciplined. As regards such incident situations, the State Inspectorate is obliged to act on the JLS’ notification, to decide on the implementation of emergency measures, and of course the same JLS may also initiate an engagement procedure for the company to measure the current pollution. As far as this city is concerned, the city where the Croatian National Assembly is sitting and almost a quarter of Croatia, air pollution and in Zagreb alone are extremely high, if I am not mistaken a few months ago or in December, the City of Zagreb was one of the most polluted in the city of Zagreb. We ourselves have a problem here, and we are also waiting for our messianic new mayor to solve it for us, but it seems to me that it's quite stuck here. The Jakuševec dump is a direct threat to air quality, to water quality, to soil quality, we all know that for 10 years already, but we still have to ask why something in this area is finally concrete and not done. Citizens of the City of Zagreb are also entertained by regular annual fires at a western waste dump, and where car, truck or any other tires and various waste can only imagine how much air pollution is involved or how much pollution is actually involved. Here's about to be it. What should certainly be pointed out is that the state must start implementing and take serious measures in order not to implement a certain type of electrification of all vehicles that are in some way state-owned. We see here, I saw in a public debate, and on the board there is a great interest in Croatian mail, we can only assume how many vehicles throughout the territory of Croatia have Croatian mail and what benefits it would be to transfer only their vehicles to electric power plants or to some other kind of power plant that would naturally make less pollution. There are definitely taxis all over Croatia, there is energy efficiency of buildings around which we have been grinding for hours here, and hours of debate have not been agreed on in the end. There, mostly every law, every idea, every project, and so does this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Air Protection of the Home Movement Club, of course, supports it because it is primarily aimed at the health of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I believe we will also support this law when it will already be voted upon when the conditions are met, but once again we must remind and ask you to already, when we pass the law, let it be announced in the People's Newspaper and pass those 8 days by the law and by the letter of that law finally begin and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93442	We are now moving on to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93443	I was in elementary school when we were doing our first posters on environmental topics that were crucial to my generation because it was '86. Cenobil happened, and then it changed consciousness both about acid rains and generally about the impact of different things on the environment. And we were this generation that was learning and this data remained to this day from the “World around Us” encyclopedia that Zagreb is next to Prague and Madrid the most polluted city in Europe. We live in an illusion, and we can compare it with what we talked about yesterday when we talked about the agricultural strategy that Croatia is the country of healthy people and the Mediterranean as it used to be, as we like to call it and advertise, so an ecologically conscious and clean country. However, in practice when you look at all relevant indicators, and during covid, it has cost us a lot, as far as health is concerned when we talk about the mortality of cancerous diseases, we are amongst the five worst countries, when we talk about obesity we are among the highest in Europe, and when we talk about what this debate today is about air pollution, we stand very badly here. We may not be like Krakow and Milan which are the cities that have one of the biggest pollution problems across Europe, but if we compare European statistics to be very specific two cities that have a significant problem if not the biggest Zagreb and Slavonski Brod of 323 ranked city Zagreb is there 256, and Slavonski Brod is in an invisible 321th place, so that is our reality. It may not be like the old Prague and Madrid Zagreb that will be distinguished, but it has not moved far away. In fact, I can conclude that it is signifiable that our industry is failing, but that the pollution still has not been resolved because it would be interesting to see comparative data for Croatia in view of the analyses that have come out of the EU that during one period the air crisis has improved precisely because of this same crisis. For Croatia, I fear it is not the industry that pollutes that the situation has not improved a bit. When we talk about key documents that should also affect this draft bill on air protection laws, we already have some documents that we could use to improve air quality in the Republic of Croatia, mainly in these urban areas that have a serious problem with pollution, consequently and with human health, and then this information when we talk about carcinogenicity and dying from cancerous diseases that I previously pointed out gets a completely different connotation. Therefore, the first document to be discussed is the Action Plan to improve air quality to the extent that it is feasible to comply with the air pollution control programme. What my question is, of course, this action plan exists for all these zones for many years and by studying the action plan, I can only notice that these good wishes that we have from one action plan to another are repeated, but I do not see any effect. So, what about our practice, not only with these legal changes, where there is also talk of additional penalization and limitations of responsibility between the ministry and the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb, but what is really happening in practice? How many people are even punished for air pollution, how much of what is stated in the action plan has been implemented? I ask that because of very specific things, so when we look at further documents report on air quality in the Republic of Croatia for 2020. We can find the following information, that at measurement stations in many of our cities, it is not during the years of the implementation of measures relative to the same period of recent years that the concentration of particles which are not allowed or which are harmful and says this, it is likely because of the fact that the main sources of floating particles are different including heating. So, we've made ourselves unhappy with the heating, we can't just transfer everything to neighbouring countries, combustion in small househouses, industrial activities, road traffic, agriculture, and also very much on concentration impacts and weather conditions. So, we're here to admit so is how There's nothing we can do about it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93444	We have one replica of the respected representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Selak Rasdic. Let's just point out once again the fact that Zagreb is one of the most polluted air pollution in Europe and in the world, and let me hear your opinion on this, I have already told regular annual fires in a waste dump in the west of the city. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93446	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93447	Zagreb really has a serious problem I will agree with, given that it is the capital city, given that this problem does not stem from an industry that we could somewhat appreciate that we are economically dependent on it and that it can contribute to our GDP rather than resulting from some other circumstances that we can not only influence but also have to influence, I think it is embarrassing that we are constantly at the top of the cities that, especially during the winter months, are one of the most impoverished in Europe. So, as for the City of Zagreb and what is happening with Jakushevec, it is one problem that needs to be resolved in the long term and we will see what will now be done about this new administration in the City of Zagreb, and I do not think it will help to collect waste prices for all citizens but will have to act much more concretely at the source. But that is one long-term problem that will be solved for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93448	Thank you. The next one will be a respected representative of Jure Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93449	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is after this quite broad debate, I believe that we all share the common interest of our fellow Members, and also I suggest that the air in Croatia be clean and that the quality of air that affects the health of our people be at one of the highest levels. Therefore, this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act should also be supported in some way in order to improve this situation. Otherwise, air protection is regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the roof laws of the Environmental Protection Act and by the Air Protection Act and by a series of implementing rules adopted under those laws. The Air Protection Act lays down the responsibility and responsibility for air protection, planning documents, monitoring and assessment of air quality, measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, air quality reporting and data exchange, air and air quality monitoring activities, air protection information system, air protection financing and administrative and inspection control. The air protection law transposing the EU acquis from air quality and air pollutant emissions are defined by the competent authorities for the implementation of effective air protection and improvement. What else did it take to pass a law like this, the Air Protection Act? This is because conservation of nature and the environment is based on art. 3. the constitution among the highest constitutional values and is the basis for its interpretation, and Article. The 70th Constitution guarantees everyone the right to a healthy life and obliges the state to ensure conditions for a healthy environment, but also for everyone to, as part of their powers and activities, in particular in caring for the protection of human health, environment and nature. The assumption is that the clean environment is a prerequisite for exercising the right to a healthy life. The right to a healthy life covers several interdependent areas, from environmental protection and its constituents, air, water and soil to nature protection, plant and animal life, eco-systems, biodiversity, public health, noise protection and not ionised radiation, protection against light pollution, and waste management. The World Health Organization connects air pollution to premature death from heart and brain attacks, lung disease and cancer to decrease lung function, respiratory infections and asthma. The amendments to the Air Protection Act are based on the first law adopted in 2004. ... In accordance with the law of 2019, the existing Air Protection Act provides that in zones and agglomerations which have been established that the levels of individual pollutants above the prescribed limit values and target values are to be implemented in order to achieve the limit values and target values that must be consistent with the action plans to improve the quality of air from art. 54th existing Air Protection Act. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments to the law are, in essence, the utmost attention and pay particular attention to the implementation of the measures in the action plans. During the implementation of the existing law, it was observed that clearer and stricter provisions concerning the responsibility of the ministry, JLS or the City of Zagreb should be laid down in the process of adopting and implementing action plans. Amendments and additions shall determine the responsibility and responsibility of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans to improve air quality. The amendment of the law introduces a mandatory opinion on the acceptability of the ministry's action plan and which is an integral part of the action plan adopted. It is further prescribed that the authorities of the state administrations of units of regional and regional self-government, JLS or the City of Zagreb and other competent authorities are obliged to implement and finance measures to reduce air pollution identified in the action plan. The regulation of stricter provisions relating to the jurisdiction of JLS or the City of Zagreb for the implementation of measures defined by action plans or in the part relating to the punishment of JLS or the City of Zagreb if the measures are not implemented will result in better quality action plans, but also greater accountability in the implementation and even more detailed regulatory content and format, the way and time limits of the adoption of an air quality action plan, as well as the obligations of the JLS and the City of Zagreb relating to the adoption and reporting of measures under action plans. Additional quality conditions will be created for the adoption of action plans with clearly defined measures and effects, which will ultimately result in ensuring that the limits are achieved, all in order to improve the quality of air and the health of our citizens as far as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93450	We have a replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93451	In many floating particles, as shown by the report on air quality in the Republic of Croatia for 2020. no significant progress has been made in recent years. Therefore, my question is how do you assess the fulfillment of current action plans in view of reports on air quality in the Republic of Croatia which are available for previous periods, or are these action plans when all these are summed up and subtracted from a more or less dead letter on paper and what can be done to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93452	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93453	Your Honor, I thank you for your question. As you said, action plans where they are polluted, where air is polluted with various particles are required to bring units of local or regional self-government. Unfortunately, we heard from today's debate, and yesterday on the board, the adoption of these action plans itself took too long, and then the action plans themselves were not implemented in the way that was imagined. This is why these amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act are in order to precisely define what the action plan should look like, how it will be implemented and who is responsible for its implementation or not implement it. Unless implemented by these amendments and additions to the spatial, o pardon, the Air Protection Act is prescribed and the penalties for their non-implementation of action plans. An extremely important document, and I believe that these amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act are also going to improve the implementation of exactly these action plans that are required to bring forward JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93454	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93455	Thank you. Dear colleague, I'd like to ask you about your city. Can the city of Makarska with its budget, I think it's about 135 million for...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93456	185.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93457	How much?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93458	185.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93459	185, 185 million you have this year to finance measures that effectively, effectively stop air pollution and those that contribute to the prevention of future pollution, how can your city finance it and what measures can it finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93460	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93461	I thank you for asking. Here's lucky I live in the city, and there's really no problem with air pollution, maybe more because we don't have other industries besides tourism, and also most of our households don't heat up on coal or on wood, but mostly on electricity, and that's why we have clean air. With a generous budget of what the town of Makarska has to do with finding a way that is effective in reducing the emissions of particles into the air, is this exactly what we've heard, so home bars contribute to a large degree of pollution, whether we need to encourage the population of the people from the home lodges to, to coal and wood, shift to electricity, and thus reduce the emissions of particles into the air. I think that here and JLS with some particular fund with the help of European funds that are offered can contribute to a significant reduction in the emissions of particles harmful to the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93462	The next one will be addressed by a respected representative, Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93463	Thank you. So here is the president of the Environment Committee I get regularly, literally on the daily basis of citizens' enquiries, but also the association of citizens from all over the country, especially Zagreb and Slavonski Brod on possible air quality protection measures in their cities. Zagreb and Slavonski Brod are indeed two hotspots in Croatia as regards actually not air quality. It's not just an environmental issue, it's a health issue, and we could hear something about it. In this regard, we believe that it is good to strengthen the control mechanism not only of design but also of the implementation of action plans and the effectiveness of the measures implemented, so whether in any way this has affected the improvement of air quality. This has never been done before, I think it's important and that it should be done and that there's no point in imposing any obligation on local self-government to work 58 action plans if they stay a letter on paper. What bothers me is a provision saying that units of local self-government are obliged to implement and finance these measures, units of local self-government. Now, here's my colleague Ahmetovic, and she'll tell you for sure, you have cities in Croatia where the main pollutants are state strategic companies that you as a city cannot influence. But even more so, I asked my colleague, Brkan, even more so, a large part of the largest unit of local self-government does not have the means to act effectively in those areas that really cause an increase in floating particles and cause air pollution. I'll give you an example in the City of Zagreb, and you can also paint it on Slavonski Brod. We have two key sources of increased concentration of floating particles in both Zagreb and Slavonski Brod, in Slavonski Brod there has been a question of cross-border emissions before, since the refinery closed, however, these two sources of traffic and storage of solid or fossil fuels in households remain. Now, if these are the two sources, how can we mitigue it? What can we do? We can do that to invest exactly in those households and those buildings that we know about, or houses that we know to lie in a way that contributes to the concentration of floating particles. It's clear to you that there's a huge investment in itself. If you do not want to watch Zagreb see if the budget of Slavonski Brod can submit such an investment. Secondly, traffic, therefore, the transformation of the urban transport system is a religion, and this is also seen by the way the plans are planned and the eu funds are probably one of the biggest investments you can have. So, if we are going to reduce traffic, for example in Zagreb or Slavonski Brod, you must go to measures that will detimise the arrival of cars in the city, which will boost public transport, create a new public transport infrastructure. It's not three million kuna projects, it's billions of projects. So what I'm saying about the Construction Fund in terms of energy efficiency and what else I'm talking about traffic is billions. And we can't put in law then that units of local self-government will finance the measures because what they will realize then is that they will set up a meter and some small things that they can finance, we won't have effective measures again. Therefore, we must also say in the law that measures under the action plan will be financed and the units of local self-government and the funds of the Energy Efficiency Fund and the resources of the state budget because otherwise we will not have effective measures, they will end up in small things that cities and municipalities can finance and that would be a shame because these are still making progress and making commitments to local self-government units. But you can't continuously take away their original incomes from them and make new financial commitments. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93464	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93465	I must admit that I'm a little embarrassed to listen when someone who comes to the head of a vital capital in the Republic of Croatia is now about to send a message that can be summed up on that, there's nothing we can do about it. I think you can do a lot. And in this sense, I would be interested in this given this statistics of the EU that I have offered here because people love specific figures, you can also call on some other statistics, which is the ambition of the City of Zagreb, given the place where it is currently located by the proportion of unauthorized particles in the air, within your mandate for how many places to land the City of Zagreb? And the second question concerns the problem we are currently having with the gas. Many households in the city of Zagreb who have spent their gas are currently planning to go back to their home bars, so given the fact that the gas is going to be very expensive and that they would rather buy wood and have some kind of stove than be able to afford to pay for gas, so do you expect further pollution?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93466	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93467	I often find it uncomfortable to listen to what you hear manipulating to say something tenth, and I will say what you said on the 10th, I did not say that the City of Zagreb does not intend to finance, however, what I am saying is that the big projects that are needed to reduce pollution, to reduce it, to really reduce it, that these are projects that count in billions and that no single unit of local self-government in this country can finance it on its own and that when we already have a regulation that defines both implementation and funding obligations, sources of funding that are not only local self-government units should be listed. As far as ambition is concerned, the basic ambition that must be resolved within this mandate is that Zagreb does not cross the limit values and that is what we must ensure because in a large number of days Zagreb crosses the limits and that we cannot do so in a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93468	Honorable representative Selak Rasdic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in what is he injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93469	Art. 238, a colleague of Bencic's, demeaning her as a parliamentary representative because she said I was manipulating her, I didn't manipulate her at all. I've established what was said within her exposure, and that's that in the key projects of the local self-government unit, there's nothing I can do. It didn't bother you when you were in opposition and criticized the City of Zagreb for not implementing different environmental policies, then local units could do anything, only they didn't have the will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93470	Of course, you know it was a replica, so you get a warning. The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93471	Thank you. I don't know who you should be replicating now, whether you or refer to what counterpart Selak Rasdic said. I think first of all, the task of all of us MPs, which is positional, which is to make the laws we lay down, to be implemented, to be realistic, to be meaningful and meaningful, this law is not. I don't see the problem just because the City of Zagreb, and other units of local self-government, will not have enough finance to implement the measures they have designed and imagined, but also the problem I see in the fact that they will not have powers for the key problems at all. To begin with, a number of contaminants and if they comply with the prescribed measures, they will prescribe the state and reveal the state through their own resolute inspectorate. And there's already room for manipulation and for abuse of power against those cities where they no longer have power. How do you see space to solve this burning problem through changes and additions to the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93472	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93473	Thank you. Yeah, that's what I was talking about. So if we have a shared competence, shared competence in regulation and impact on individual pollutants, then this law must reflect this shared competence between units of local self-government, state and state bodies including the inspectorate, but also, for example, the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. What I tried to explain. Well, some have not understood that we must avoid a situation where we create a seemingly efficient mechanism, to finally implement measures at local level, and on the other hand we condemn units of local self-government not to be in those key resolutions that need to be intervened because intervention in these key resolutions is indeed at the level that units of local self-government cannot be covered budgetally. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93474	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93475	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. In your discussion you talked more about Slavonski Brod than about the City of Zagreb, probably because there was not enough time, so here is the opportunity to talk about the City of Zagreb. I've been interested in these almost a year now how much you've been acting in power in the City of Zagreb, what you've prepared from the projects. concrete projects, so almost a year will be [[/Intruder: How much? How much?]] What, you have prepared from concrete projects related to environmental protection in the City of Zagreb which could then also run with the Environmental Protection Fund to finance it for you in one part. [[Please, let's not.]] [[- Are you serious? So you're...]] [[Let's not, we can't communicate like this, slowly. You'll get a chance to answer that. Here's a colleague of Totgergeli.]] And another thing that I'm interested in, how personally do you feel responsible for that part of the citizens who will move from the city of Zagreb to, say, putting on wood because of what you are and how you have been doing more humanizing in Holding than the real needs of the citizens of the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93476	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93477	Here, now I'm gonna unpack everything you said wrong. ... So, first of all, the price of gas to the public is determined by the state, so here you are, like, playing football again, no, you're not getting ready to argue, so get ready, are you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the projects that we have prepared, these are projects in the field of waste management, so the project for the sorting plant, the project for the compost, with the biogas plant. These are, of course, projects that actually lead, of course, the closure of Jakushec and these are, of course, projects concerning water supply and disposal, where replacements are being prepared, in fact, water prices and disposal systems to comply with the requirements of the 21st century, and that requirement is not that 60% water Be, lose, what are you like? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You were 20 years old. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Yeah, it's just that... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93478	Comrade Bencic, please control yourselves. Please. [[I don't die when I see you.]] Comrade Totgergeli, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? [[Intruder: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93479	Well, he's hurt. 238 because my colleague insults me by saying that I am not preparing for the debate, and I am very well prepared, especially when it comes to gas business, and I am fully aware that the failures they have made now in all possible ways want to show someone else, and it is clear to the citizens where the address is which and which is why they are paying for such gas at this time in the City of Zagreb compared to other citizens in other cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93480	All right, that, that, take it easy, pal Bencic, please. It wasn't, of course, as you know, any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but it was a replica, so you get a warning. Now, I ask you nicely, if you start with the pseudo injuries of the Rules of Procedure you will not finish another minute you will get two or three warnings, I warn you in advance. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure together. We all have a chance to speak on behalf of the club and on behalf of the personal debate and we can finally speak and anything we want to say can be said here. So let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure, I ask you all nicely, please. Comrade Dretar, you're staying with a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93481	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, of course I'm staying. Art. 238, he would have warned the respected representative Bencic and his colleagues, laughing at anyone in person, whatever that person said was wrong, and I believe it was a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure regardless of what anyone said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93482	Well, that's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, of course, this one laughed all over the place and performed all kinds of things, but this one wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... It's a different story, this one, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, you get a warning too. Comrade Beljak, you have the same thing, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, what's he hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93483	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure 238 were injured, first you injured him because you treated your colleague Bencic inappropriately and you said that he was restrained, which could certainly be interpreted, and the second one was absolutely right...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93484	So don't speak any longer than expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93485	...it was completely, don't interrupt me, now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again because you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93486	Yes, of course I'm interrupting you because what you're saying is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm telling you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93487	Secondly, Mr. Gergeli, Mr. Gergeli has really hurt his Rules of Procedure, so he has not, not prepared himself, prepared himself but is lying because the price of gas has been agreed for Zagreb for a year when HDZ was in power, so specifically...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93488	Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93489	What, what, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93490	And you listen to what you want to hear. ... I don't have anything to tell you that you... [[Whiteman doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93491	You have nothing to say to me, dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93492	Based on an article. In 241st century 1, I give you a measure of distance from today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93493	... I've had enough of your behavior now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93494	Please, sit down and come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93495	I won't, I won't sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93496	And well, that fits...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93497	You won't forbid me to speak, that rule applies only to me or to rare ones, will you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93498	That, that fits all of your characters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93499	... I won't, I won't interrupt the debate. Here's what now? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93500	Now I'll interrupt this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93501	You can interrupt here that I must not speak as elected parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament because you do not give it to me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93502	Not outside of the Rules of Procedure and not in such a way, not outside of the Rules of Procedure. This is an orderly state, this is a democratic parliament, and we will not yell at each other, insult each other, etc., so there is a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93503	That's what you do first. But that's what you do first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93504	I didn't do it at all, I didn't insult anyone, I didn't insult anything, I strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93505	You've taken me away from the session, for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93506	Please, let's not go too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93507	What does that mean, I have to go home or what? I picked up the line later, so can I have a replica later?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93508	I told you...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93509	Don't tell me specifically, can I have the replica I answered?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93510	I specifically told you, I specifically told you that you received a measure of distance from today's session, very specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93511	You didn't tell me specifically, please, specifically, now that you've told me very politely, do I have the right to the replica I answered before this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93512	No, you don't, clearly you don't, and if you did, the Rules of Procedure would know that you don't, but I think such a discussion is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93513	So you're defending me, you're defending me from speaking in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93514	We're gonna take a 10 minute break now, now we're gonna take a 10 minute break, and then we're gonna move on. MEETING IN 12,01 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Selak-Raspudic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93516	Article 238 also bothers me with the demeaning and ridicule of the progressive left, but please chair a reminder after one announcement. We have unequal criteria and it's really not fair and it's not the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93517	Of course I'll give you a warning, but I want to make it very clear. I told everyone in advance, and I have the same criteria, absolutely equal criteria. No one can tell me I don't. I give warnings when the Rules of Procedure is violated. I don't care who's from any party, or why, or how. But you have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Because the Rules of Procedure are ours together. So as far as the criteria are concerned, the criteria are the same, but in advance I said they were going in one completely wrong direction. And we had a normal, nice discussion. People have different views on some things and that's why Parliament is here. But if it goes in one direction that has nothing to do with the contribution of a general improvement and we break the Rules of Procedure that we have brought, then it makes no sense. Then our work doesn't make sense, we insult ourselves with it. We must be constructive whether you and I agree or co-worker Bencic and I agree, etc. But in a debate like this, something good is likely to be crystallized. And that's all our reason for being here. But if we start talking, abuse our Rules of Procedure, then it's just disabling everything. I think I've explained things, and that's why I said in advance, let's not do that. I'll be giving warnings during the speech if I see you abuse the Rules of Procedure. I announced it in advance. Am I? Fair enough. There he is. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93518	Well, I agree with you that it's the Rules of Procedure of all of us, so I call on Article 240 that you were in violation of Article 240. Rules of Procedure when you immediately took away the word from the representative at the first time, until the end of the debate, and after that, when you made the same announcement and removed him from the session. In addition to treating the members of the opposition and the positions equally, I consider that this and you violate the Rules of Procedure directly because you have not been guided by what it says, which is if it continues. So you didn't wait for a man to sit down and next time you called him, but you immediately, so when he first called, you took him away from the session. And we will object to the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93519	I certainly refer you to it, not to the President of the Parliament. Please read all the Rules of Procedure again so we know what this is all about again. When you read the Rules of Procedure, you will see who is objecting. The complaint is submitted to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, so please do so. Let's get some things straight if you think I did the wrong thing. Of course, absolutely please do. Let's not!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93520	... Therefore, the objection against a restrictive measure of distance from the session of the Assembly of Article 242 shall be submitted to the President of the Assembly no later than 24 hours after the protracting of a restrictive measure, and the President shall refer it to all MPs and shall send it to the Committee on the Constitution. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So I think as chairman, you read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93521	Great. What you said doesn't stand What you said doesn't stand, but I don't think we're going in. [[Intruder Bencic: Take too long to run the sessions here so they don't know.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Bencic: Here's an article.]] Thank you very much. Here he is, the respected representative Selak-Raspudic asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93522	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to resume what happened here and try together to establish better criteria for a future debate. If we were to follow the criteria, Mr. Reiner, which you have stated here, now someone should have taken a colleague Bencic out of the room, because she gave a breach to the Rules of Procedure if she hadn't said at all what the injured Rules of Procedure was in, and that she was referring to a whole other topic. Of course that didn't happen. Why didn't it happen? Because you have estimated that you are now no longer politically opportunized in this way, because he is unfair, and you have previously applied that criterion to a colleague who has not been brought out at the end but has left himself, but a colleague of Beljak has received several warnings in one announcement. I'm just showing you that at the same time, so within five minutes, you had different criteria for hurting the Rules of Procedure for two people. We can't work like that. I specifically asked Mr. Jandrokovic which is the demeaning of parliamentary deputies, since that is never the case. He told me that he couldn't explicitly tell me about this pay phone himself. So how can someone give me an injury if I don't know if I've disrespected anyone and what criteria do they even apply to it? Minimum is if you want to penalize someone not to go into content because you can't interpret what they're going to say to the end, you're not Cassandra for God's sake, to give one warning after one call. This really doesn't lead anywhere, we have unequal criteria for different representatives, and then we create chaos that adversely affects the perception of the parliament in the Croatian public, which is justifiable. I am really ashamed that there has been ridicule and a loud disdain from what is liked to call a progressive left, but your answer to that is just as embarrassing as that previous mockery if not more embarrassing because you here have to keep order.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93523	Thank you very much. This is the only thing I need to correct you, my colleague Bencic, has called for the Rules of Procedure, and my colleague Beljak never mentioned what he was calling for. Please don't speak from the scene. This is what this esteemed representative Lenar will now explain to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93524	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF on the consultations on further work on the course of this debate under your direction. I also call on the other club representatives to consult us on how we will work with regard to your unequal criteria for you haters. You don't stick to the criteria yourself, because I had to break up my debate and warn you about your vote on the phone, and then you didn't criticize yourself. So you don't have the same criteria and you can't say three warnings in one minute's notice. It is clear that you are discriminating certain MPs who have not grown to your heart, and those who are they can speak for an entire minute to give them a warning. So here I call upon the opposition to finally respond to your behaviour because in the last term you have acted as vice president, so I think it is time for the MPs to raise their voice against your way of leading and that you finally realize that you too have to read the Rules of Procedure and that you do not have to be warned about it by the MPs. When you are in sin i.e. mistakenly conduct the session and misbehaved the rules of procedure simply look for quite ten excuses and ways to justify yourself and not be self-critical. That's why I'm asking you to take a ten-minute break so that we can consult to see if we can discuss more during your conduct or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93525	Of course I'll give you a break. A respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, also reports for the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93526	Thank you. On behalf of the party club Center and the party GLAS, I request a break of ten minutes for consultation. I agree with my colleague that we really need to discuss whether we are going to continue to participate in this agenda point at all, but let's go one step further and ask the question whether the opposition should even participate in the debates when you, Mr. Reiner, are the one who runs the HS session. What you did today is not your first time. Not only do you have double criteria in relation to opposition MPs and ruling, not only do you express warnings where they don't belong, not only do you not rule over the provisions of the HS Rules of Procedure, but what is the worst disabling is the role of all of us who have come here for a purpose and for a reason, we want to participate in the debate and say something in this debate. Use force when you don't already have a personal authority to interrupt anyone you can interrupt for what, three or five or seven seconds overrun this timer. Is that democracy what it's supposed to be, is that the purpose of HS? If you today, as you do otherwise when you run the sessions, you didn't act like you did, we would now be discussing air quality, instead we are discussing the quality of the management of HS sessions from a person who may really need someone to say openly, sitting in a chair where she doesn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93527	Thank you very much. Of course I'll grant you a break. Stanku sought on behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93528	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to still consult on the conduct of parliamentary representatives in this esteemed home. We are all aware that what we have in our rules of procedure is written, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure that in fact all MPs are constantly abuses and it turns into an inability to conduct a normal session. And then when someone who violates the very same Rules of Procedure who is called on to be hurt, it escalates it to such insolence that we have here yelling, shouting, various excesses that are actually only used to attract media attention to the individual and then afterwards he gets all the headlines of all the media in Croatia and becomes the star of that day and it doesn't matter at all what we talked about here, what attitudes we had, who stood for, who defended or attacked him, but only that person caused the blast that day. In fact, in the past, it was happening to us with a former representative, and then all the cameras were pointed at him, and I mentioned at the time that it would be as good as at soccer stadiums when someone was doing circus in the assembly to then actually transfer from the session because they were doing it right now in the stadiums when someone was doing the circus then all the cameras would move away and it wouldn't be transmitted, that it wasn't given attention and importance. Obviously all clubs need to talk about whether we need this breach of the Rules of Procedure at all because it is not used at all for what it is or used in 0.1% for what it really is than all abuses and use in fact to give replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93529	Thank you very much. Of course I'll grant you this break. Here's the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93530	Thank you very much, Mr. Rainer. On behalf of the Department of State Movement and I will also ask for a break because I believe not only that we must consult but that we must ultimately decide in which way we want to participate in this debate not only naturally regarding these points of the agenda but also in the past and today, and also in the future. The fact that we're going, there's plenty of time, at first. The honourable representative objected to a respected representative. That's what we got laughing salva, I can understand that, as you've argued, a smile from the constituency bench, but laughing from a constituency booth that should be one of the most responsible places in Croatia, not just in politics, I'm going back to the topic of responsibility. This payphone should be a sacred place where people have an open and reasonable discussion, and they are not allowed in each other’s faces. Whatever the representative or representative said, he could say that the cow was green, that the moon was cubed, it was so completely irrelevant, no one was allowed to laugh in the face. After that, we saw of course here and now we see here an empty assembly of alleged fighters for democracy. I agree with their political programmes or not the fact that you can't leave the debate because you don't like someone's tie, someone's sentence or someone's thought. I suppose the same way, and maybe worse would end all of us, be in any stranger in the world if we thought, speak or don't God do anything different than so-called. free-thinking liberal democratic left. So, I think we all need to sit down and have a serious talk about it and I'm looking for a break on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93531	Thank you very much. Of course, I'll grant you a break, and according to the article. 293.b. We will continue to work, so this next one will speak to the esteemed representative Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93532	Thank you. Here I decided to take this individual word because I was actually surprised by the Secretary of State's reply to my replica in the opening statement that he told me that here we just somehow didn't understand that I wasn't actually talking about the subject, the essence and the measure of the law. So, in the debate on the Air Protection Act, I referred to the question which measures were implemented by the ministry in the event of years of pollution in Slavonski Brod and by answering that I am not in the topic, that we do not understand each other, and that the task of the ministry is just here to decide on the level of quality of the action plan and to follow its format. So, the answer I got about the steps taken, I got the answer that all I wanted to know about the steps taken to address this question to the head of local self-government. I must say that I am really shocked that in the debate on air protection, the Secretary of State says that my question here today is wrongly addressed. Well, if that's what we're going to do, then there's supposed to be some sort of cordon of mayors and mayors here representing this Air Protection Act. Dear Secretary of State Your task is exactly what I asked you, your task is to care about the quality of air and of course that concern is not individual, it is common, of course it is a task and local and regional self-government, it is ultimately and my task is this way that I can do what I can in the description of my job that here as a representative of the citizens and of the Republic of Slovenia and the city of Slavonski Brod that breathes the third worst air in Slavonski Brod, the worst third air in Europe, and the excesses have often shown that the ship is actually worse even than Beijing. Here's my way and I'll contribute this way. I agree with you that the conduct of both city and county administrations here is an impression let's say some ignoring of the problem, but I cannot accept your statement that you are not here today for this. I can say this is an absurd statement of the year. As for the implementation of plans and activation of both the administration and the city of Slavonski Brod and the management of Brod-Posavina County, they are below the required level, there is no speech, but all of them together are participants of the long-standing inaction of nothing other than writing documents, strategies and here we are all actually responsible equally for me here who can and in this way sound what solutions are still missing. And for example, as far as this action is concerned, the city and county administrations can say that I have not seen a single comment in public consultation, not a single city, not a county, so not a single comment that could be minimal in the direction of pointing to, to the problem, so it does not necessarily have to be made to change itself because here we often have the opportunity to use this opportunity of public consultation to actually send a message. But here's nothing from them, not even a voice. Here is still the reason for the pollution we still have only speculation from the statement to the statement how when. So for years we've been convinced that here it actually comes from a cross-border and neighbouring refinery, so then it was exhaust gases, so home bars whatever it is, here maybe we're just in such a geographical position. In any case, we have no concrete answer and no proposal even after 13 years, and I will repeat once again that citizens deserve a final solution to this problem and finally deserve clean and healthy air.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93533	We have several replicas, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93534	I agree with you fellow Members, I am really ashamed to live in a country where the citizens of one city are seriously at risk because of a problem that had to be solved in the 21st century, and we can't transfer everything to our neighbours. I submitted the amendment myself when the draft amending the budget to continue at the Ministry of Health research relating to the people of Slavonski Brod and the diseases resulting from air pollution, unfortunately it was not accepted. We also remember previous President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic as saying in a slurry that she negotiated it with Russia, unfortunately none of it happened. How do you see this transfer of responsibility from the state to the units of local self-government and vice versa that we could hear where it turns out in the end that health threats, but also the environmental threats of our citizens, are no one's problem when we talk about concrete solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93535	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93536	Thank you, colleague Rasudic. I will first of all thank you here and on behalf of all citizens of the City of Brod for submitting your amendment and here I am sorry that it has not been accepted. I guess it doesn't matter whether it's good or not, it's only where that proposal comes from. You asked me how I, I know how all citizens are already looking at this transfer of responsibility, so after 13 years when someone only mentions the air topic of people but, come on, I won't even listen to what they're talking about anymore, I don't care what the ministry says or what the mayor says, or what the president says is coming to visit us, and the night of this fire and the explosion she still has to travel away that night. So, we're all sick of talking and now this speech of mine, I hope the citizens of the boat don't say the word here again she's out there talking about it again nothing's gonna happen again. So we warn the Ministry, we send the memos, but here's nothing, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93537	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93538	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs. Well, you were talking about the situation in Slavonski Brod and you mentioned the refinery over as if at some point it were an excuse for such a state of air in Slavonski Brod. I think the situation with the refinery itself of previous years has been drastically worse than it is right now and that the ministry and all state institutions have engaged both in the city and county at the time when it was the biggest problem. However, it can be concluded from your debate that even the city and the county can do more. I wonder what you specifically think the city of Slavonski Brod and Slavonski Brod County should do more to make the air in Slavonski Brod City better? And on the other hand, I think that this bill is going in that direction to define exactly what anyone from local, regional to state authorities should do and after what they should and who should and how to control and press them to It's what we all do. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93539	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93540	Well, believe it or not, in the good part of this last part of your comment, I agree that everyone needs to know what it is, but then the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development can't tell me that it's not a topic, it's not a metric, and it's not the core that we're discussing, so the Air Protection Act is not my question, which so far seemed to solve the problem of polluted air in Slavonski Brod, meaning impossible. The first part of the question was... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93541	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93542	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. We all care about the quality of the air in both Zagreb and Slavonski Brod and my Zadar, and we certainly don't care if it was like that in Slavonski Brod, but what bothered me when you told you that the secretary of state told you not to talk about the subject of not being a metric, he didn't tell you so. He said in another way that what his colleague Totgergeli said was necessary, so the procedure that needed everything to be involved in all this, in what way to solve it, and if you're really going to do what the government did and how it actively involved itself in solving this problem is visible and now because some shifts happened, not all of them, but they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93543	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93544	I thank you for your rep, dear colleague Peric. Here's the thing about this part here in this break I took the opportunity to return the video and listen exactly from word to word, so the Secretary of State told me that I'm not in the topic, that we're not talking about content and the scale of the topic. You mentioned all of the procedures that they were actually important and what has been done so far, is, but most of these procedures are lagging behind, it's largely missing. Here's an impact study on citizens' health since 2016 we don't have it, the Air Control Committee doesn't meet so it meets once every two years, and given the condition that we have whether it's appropriate and normal for two years. So we all have to work harder together, and I remember the first part of the question, which is what we need to do. So if you need to, you need six days all means both city and county and state authority means what you say you don't get out of the room let's find a solution to this problem. So 13 years it's too much, the kids live there, I live there. Live it inhale, here are the big problems and health and headaches and [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Allergies. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93545	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentations and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93546	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As we have already heard today during the implementation of the existing law, it is necessary to lay down clearer and stricter provisions regarding the responsibility of the ministry, units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb in the process of adopting and implementing action plans, thus determining the competences and responsibilities of stakeholders in the process of adopting and implementing action plans to improve air quality. In relation to the existing law, Art. The 54th is amended in a way that introduces a mandatory opinion on the acceptability of the ministry's action plan and which is an integral part of the plan adopted. The Ministry shall adopt an opinion on acceptability on the basis of the opinions previously obtained by the competent authorities of the state administration, the authorities of the units of the district, regional self-government and other competent authorities of the holders of certain activities and measures in the process of drawing up an action plan, which shall also contribute to that same plan. In addition, it is required that state administration bodies, units of regional self-government, units of local self-government and/or the City of Zagreb and other competent authorities are obliged to implement and finance measures to reduce air pollution identified in the action plan. A new article shall also be added which shall regulate the monitoring of the implementation of the measures, the timing of the implementation and the level of air pollution as a result of the implementation of the measures set out in the action plan as a public publication of that same report. The same Article provides for a report on the implementation of measures and content for a period of two years. In addition, the launch and process of amending and supplementing the action plan shall be prescribed in the event of failure to meet the objectives set. So it's not exactly as we heard through the debate that if something doesn't work out, it's exactly in that direction this bill is going to go. The law also harmonizes certain concepts with the new EU Regulation of 2019 on market surveillance and conformity of production as well as with the part relating to distributors, natural persons, craftsmen, producers and importers. The issue of granting consent to the Ministry for the purchase and use of strictly limited quantities of products deviating from the limit values of volatile organic compounds resulting from the use of organic solvents in certain colours and varnishes is also regulated. And from the debate of the Secretary of State, we heard that this is most commonly used for old-timers. This proposal regulates the legal framework relating to the entry of data on storage devices as well as gas turbine data, which is then entered in the register together. The legal framework relating to the conditions to be met by the testing laboratory with regard to the experience of the staff as well as the legal framework relating to the norms and the measurement of emissions of pollutants in the air from small homes shall be laid down. Provisions shall be harmonised with the inspection procedure and shall further improve the conduct of the inspection procedure itself in the inspection of the quality of marine fuels placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia as well as in the supply and use of maritime facilities. The commitments so far are not increasing, financial commitments are thought to be made, neither new financial contributions are introduced, but existing obligations for economic operators that are so far prescribed by the Air Protection Act remain the same and will also be taken over by this bill. Following that club, HDZ will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93547	On behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93548	Perhaps the best introduction to this final presentation is your replica and response to the replica when you said, if the topic of air pollution in Slavonski Brod and the question of the Secretary of State which has been made so far is not something that falls within the reach of this debate, then we should ask ourselves, and what is it? And why do I say that? I'm afraid these questions, and what you've done, and why the results aren't often asked to each other if this kind of skeleton of law remains in force until the next reading. My colleague before me said that this law prescribed jurisdiction and responsibility, and in this circle of jurisdiction and responsibility and authority something was not designed properly. It seems to me that when units of local self-government are tasked with preparing action plans, and when they are defined by some of the obligations that arise that must be taken into account, for example, that units of local self-government, especially in large cities, should be taken into account. Here is the City of Zagreb, which in reality will be able or will not be able to achieve, and where all deliberately set traps have in their hands representatives of other political options through the Resort Ministry, through the State Inspectorate, do we know who is headed there, through the Environmental Protection Fund and various other bodies. And it will be in vain that units of local self-government in their area will best know which pollutants and what they should actually do, a very small package of measures these units of local self-government will be able to implement themselves. They're already going to suggest something or come up with state and state bodies as partners, and the state is going to say no in a nice and polite way. Of course those who ultimately suffer will be citizens again. And that's why I objected to those provisions that say that law enforcement is a competent resolution ministry, and then the minister in charge of environmental protection matters will prescribe content, so content, and it's not defined what the content is. Now, that's what the minister will say, no less or less, not some other little wiser TC will say what the contents of the programme of measures and action plan that the City of Zagreb should bring. What could go wrong? I mean, counter-questioning a voice, and why wouldn't I? Therefore, the way and procedure of adopting an action plan is even the obligation of units of local self-government. So then I ask the question who actually defines what will be done by the provisions of this law to make the air cleaner and better. So the only clean air we really need to really start dealing with these unfortunate toxic floating particles is getting HDZ out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93549	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and will finally speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93550	Dear colleagues and colleagues, bodies of the state administration, units of regional self-government and units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb and other competent authorities are holders of certain activities and measures and are obliged to implement and finance measures to reduce air pollution identified in the action plan. So here I'm talking about the local self-government unit where the pollutants are exclusively and only industrial plants owned by a state or owned by public companies are again of course founded by the state. In the small town of Omisalj, the residential area is only 1/3 of the industrial area or the area of the land occupied by industrial plants is 3 times larger than the area of land occupied by residential buildings. And I'm talking, of course, about state energy projects, I'm talking about pollutants, among other things, about a pollutant that was determined by the report, by the official report that it exceeded the permitted quantities of ground-floor ozone. And nothing to anyone. You want a counterproposal? You want a proposal to fix this bill? Let the units of local self-government be bonds of making an action plan, implementing measures from the action plan, financing these measures, financing anything you can think of because I expect you to put a new nuclear power plant in Omisalj. It's like a good day to you. If you ever do a nuclear power plant, she goes to Omisalj. It's like a good day. Here's a suggestion. Give the units of the local self-government of the State Inspectorate to see what clean air is, to see how the measures prescribed in the decision on the acceptability of environmental procedures are respected. The only cases when the inspectorate came to Omisalj municipality in terms of air pollution, whether or not the environment, whether excessive noises are because the local self-government unit sent the application and forwarded it to the media. That's why the inspectorate comes out on the ground and, of course, comes out 2-3 days after the incident and, of course, finds that there's nothing controversial, that the air is clean, that the noise is gone, of course when the terminal doesn't make noise, etc., etc. And then the director of the public company comes to you for a meeting with the municipal chief and confirms that the noise was, say, I'm talking about noise now, but it's also about air, that the noise was excessive. And you know what it says in the inspectorate's report? That there wasn't an overrun. Huh, what do we do now? Where is the inspectorate and where are the competent institutions when I say that the LNG terminal floats under the flag of the Marshall Islands against the Law on the Terminal of Intended Natural Gas where it must be under the Croatian flag. Where are the competent institutions, where's the state inspectorate? But important to include in the Air Protection Act that the local self-government unit has a key role of course from financial, executive control, all basics, and I am very interested in who is going to control and work in the Omisalj municipality and some smaller municipalities. It is said that the ground-floor ozone is regulated by the government's air pollution programme. Take care of the role in implementing the unit of local self-government, monitoring and assessing the quality of air in the area itself, determines the location of measurement stations to monitor the quality of air, we agreed to set the measurement station up to today zero in 2017. It brings forward a pollution measurement programme, ensures the conditions of its implementation, monitors the implementation of these activities and reports annually to the Ministry on the original and validated air quality monitoring data. Well, that, well, there's no expert who would do this job in the state, let alone in a small unit of local self-government. And what does the state inspectorate do? Nothing. What's the ministry and the minister doing? It still gives permission to whether excessive activity may be prescribed by an action plan by the local self-government unit because if it is not responsible for controlling these pollutants, we will not get a positive opinion. Well, you can't put it all on the local self-government unit, and the minister's not guilty of anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93551	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the MOST and will finally speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rapudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93552	In the description of this law as its intensity, we can find the following. That this law complements the infringement provisions in the section relating to the punishment of responsible persons in units of local self-government, units of the regional (regional) self-government, the City of Zagreb and the authorities of the state administration in the event that they do not ensure the implementation and financing of measures to reduce air pollution established in the air action plan to improve air quality and do not ensure the implementation of measures to reduce air pollution and this is further developed in these legal provisions. During this debate, the problem and various arguments have been crystallised as to whose jurisdiction we are talking about state administration and local self-government units with regard to reducing air pollution. Of course, citizens are actually naturally interested in only one thing, and that's what the state would do, any unit of local self-government on its own to make air pollution less likely to decrease, and less interested in this transfer of a ball of responsibility between whose jurisdiction is. However, there is one content problem within these legal changes. If the legislator considers that there is a problem in fulfilling the obligation of units of local self-government to punish them more effectively and to make more clear the provisions of the infringement because they do not implement an action plan to improve the quality of air to the extent necessary, then the legislator here, or the legislator, should give clear arguments on the basis of which the criteria are so far and which units of local self-government do not implement action plans, which is why it is necessary to supplement the infringement provisions. So we want to hear very specifically why these legal changes took place. To me, a general formulation like action plans are not implemented, it's a big problem, the air is still polluted doesn't mean anything at all. I want to hear 50%, 60%, 20% of these and those units of local self-government have not implemented these points of their action plan, which is why it is necessary to supplement the infringement provisions, or we have punished those units of local self-government for the same non-implementation. Otherwise, the only thing that can be concluded is that responsibility is relocated from state level to local self-government units. We want exact indicators whether the violation of the action plan of the units of local self-government has really been done, and if so, what those of the action plan did not implement in action and whose responsibility it should have been. Only with such arguments can we at all justify our work here and the legislative changes that we should adopt because regardless of the noble goal that we share here, which is to finally reduce air pollution we cannot just on the basis of trust or any principled descriptions bring any legal changes. If they are justified, then we need lists and arguments to which units of local self-government are concerned, so let's really clear up this debate whether the problem is government failure, state inspectorate or the problem in local self-government units. This is how you position the leaders of local self-government to defend themselves, and the citizens in suspense about who they should address in the first place because of the high level of pollution of their air. We in Zagreb have a serious problem with this. The quality of our air is weak when we look at European standards, and the quality of air in the agglomeration of Osijek and Slavonski Brod is very weak. The quality of air in the City of Zagreb also oscillates depending on where to measure, so we could listen to some perhaps comforting explanations that do not solve the problem that it is right there near Jakushec in the Dugavas and then it is not so bad in the rest of the city. We have a problem with air pollution in common. And the polluted air in the Dugavas is just as much the problem of the Jarun as the problem of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when I personally submitted amendments to the budget changes, and later on, I submitted to the budget amendments concerning Slavonski Brod and air pollution and the quality of health research that go towards resolving the consequences when the cause had not already been eliminated. To break that prejudice that we're just worried about places where we get votes. This is our common problem, just like all other environmental policies, and we need to solve it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93553	Now, finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93554	Thank you. So to sum up some of the things that we brought here today, in front of the Green-Left Block Club. We believe that we need stronger mechanisms to implement and measure the success of action plans at local level and that part we can absolutely support as well as the responsibility of those who do not. Absolutely. We also welcome some of the steps that are still being done here in terms of maritime transport or ships, etc., it is also very important. But what we see not only in this law but in the mass of regulations that we get here on the table, which is one continuous modus operand that looks like this. Local self-government units have actually been reduced over the last 10 years and are being transferred to the state budget, on the other hand they are being given continued new commitments, new commitments that involve financial costs, and this serious financial cost. And then some units of local self-government, now I'm talking about the smaller ones in general, especially the smaller ones, so they're coming into an unsustainable situation. Now, when we look at this law and what it actually prescribes, if we want to have these effective measures at local level to really eliminate or reduce air pollution by, for example, 55% that we should have put into this law as a goal, because at EU level it is defined as a goal, then we should also provide for serious means for this thing to be realised. I made concrete suggestions about it on the board yesterday. If we are interested in 5 cities that have the worst air quality in Croatia, so Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Kutina, Sisak, Osijek provide better air quality, then we are all here in the Law standing as their obligation to program in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as a separate call for these cities targeted, is, therefore, an invitation to tender that would provide funds for investments in housing or energy efficiency on the one hand, on the other.../incomprehensible/... and private housing fund, on the other hand, in a different transport infrastructure, especially investments concerning public transport. So I'm talking about what we have as so far most common measures in action plans, measurements, public education, promotional campaigns, I mean, it's all okay, but it doesn't tang, it doesn't touch that specific infrastructure that we need to really reduce emissions and that air quality would be better. We can educate citizens for the next 50 years, if we don't give them the heating infrastructure that doesn't emit particles, we haven't done anything. What do we tell them, it's not nice to heat up on coal, what do we tell them to eat cakes instead? I mean, we have to give them this infrastructure that costs money, and someone has to budget it. I also think that it would be good to introduce in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for all types of competitions, i.e., as indicators also, indicators of the contribution to reducing air pollution and to be indicators monitored during implementation and that it really depends on final funding, so that they do not again have projects that may be strategic, which are important, but which are actually going against the objectives of the Green Plan and which will not contribute to reducing therefore air pollution by 55% at EU level by 2030 in the way it is prescribed. So let's start connecting sources of funding, a system of programming with the legal obligations that we make to local self-government units. Until we do, and until we tie it up, what's going to happen is that it's going to continuously transfer obligations to local self-government, they're not actually going to be able to finance significant projects, we're going to measure air pollution and report it, we're going to educate the public, but we're not going to have the infrastructure needed for real change. That's, that's what I see as problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93555	Stanko was asked by respected representative Vesna Vucilovic on behalf of Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93556	Thank you very much Chairman, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to reconsider, explain, but also stressed that not all units of local self-government are the same. We cannot put the city of Zagreb in the same basket, and on the other hand, Slavonian cities, Slavonian municipalities, units of local self-government that do not have the same fiscal capacity. I will once again remind all those present that the latest amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government of the city of Zagreb remained 900 million kuna per year, not kuna, million, 2, 900 million kuna. So the city of Zagreb is not poor, the city of Zagreb has an accounting value of 14 billion kuna, which should be activated, of course. Therefore, comparing the problems of the city of Zagreb with Belisc, Valpovo, Donja Miholjc and such cities in Slavonia, which depend on their resources from the state budget, makes absolutely no sense. The city of Zagreb has enough resources, the state has left 900 million kuna a year for which it can make measurement stations for every city district if it wants to monitor air quality. Therefore, comparing the city of Zagreb with other units of local or regional self-government is not the same. The budget of the city of Zagreb can hardly bear all investments in the quality of air of the worthy citizens of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93557	Thank you. Now finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93558	Thank you again, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93559	Excuse me, can you please tell me what's going to happen to the break the colleague just asked for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93560	What break? I don't understand. [[Intruder: Vukemilović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93561	He was, this is from colleague Vucilović In particular, there was a request for a break. [[Intruder: Yes.]] So we haven't heard what your answer is? [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93562	Well, you always approve of a break, I approve, I'm sorry, you're right. Absolutely, of course, I approve of the break and this, we continue in accordance with the article. 293b with work. My mistake, thank you for warning me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93563	Here, thank you again, Vice President of the Parliament. I'll take this, this opportunity of closing words and add just a few things to the change. In fact, here we have heard from all the debates, and it is not necessary to repeat that one of these laws is actually important because air protection has a great impact on our planet in general and on the health of our citizens, and what I want to say once again on behalf of the club and to stress and actually appeal is to point out and to repeat that the procedure is lagging behind and that it is necessary to regulate and implement the measures that are taken to reduce air pollution, and here I will say that we can always do more and here, with that message we need to be guided and monitored, we can always do more. Again, here, I will take another example from my work, specifically, here, we have one citizens' initiative, i.e. the association that advocates the solution to the problem of excessive concentration of harmful particles in the area of the town of Slavonski Brod and this association, here, regularly reports via email and some of us parliamentary representatives on current situations and overruns of permitted values. Here we are also being reported on cases of damage to the measuring station when it comes to it, and indeed here they are up-to-date, and literally here with every e-mail they cry out for some kind of solution and some kind of reaction. But since the mailing list is so much longer I can say, there is a part of us MPs, some local politicians. The mailing list also includes officials from the Ministry of Economy and Environmental Protection and the State Hydrometeorological Institute. So they are the ones who have the task of reacting, and they also have tools to come to a solution or at least to a proposal to implement a solution. But here I can say that it's sad how these e-mails only come in one direction. So on several occasions, they complained from the citizens' initiative that for weeks they were trying to contact or obtain certain feedback from either the Ministry or the State Meteorological Institute. But here's the answer. The authorities who are still here today as representatives of the ministry are reading, receiving these e-mails, and here they ignore actually this kind of cry for contact and solution. And I don't get it, and ultimately it's irresponsible that here's over 10, 15 e-mail addresses from the authorities, that no one reacts, or here's to at least a decent answer because we all see in that mail list cc who actually sees it all and reads it and that there are more recipients among which I see it. Indeed, I hope that all further questions and responsibilities will finally take place, as will all the planning documents and air quality monitoring activities, and that they will rise to one more quality level and that here are actually certain individuals who will understand what is their business and whose task is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93564	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. So now we will move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Foundation of Croatia for Children, first reading, P.Z. No. 200. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Constitution of the Here you go. After we finish this point. [[Intruder: Free Talks.]] I estimate it won't take long, then we'll have free speeches since we don't have a vote. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Margareta Mađeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93567	... MPs and MPs. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I welcome you all. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation was founded in 2008 by the Law on the Foundation “Croatia for Children” and the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are realized by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since 1 August 2015, the new Act on the Foundation “Croatia for Children” is in force. That law regulates the modes and conditions of operation of the trust and its purpose, the bodies of the trust, the underlying assets, and the means and sources of financing. Questions not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the laws governing the foundations. The law is governed by the provisions of the then applicable Act on Foundations and Foundations. The fund is financed from the revenue of games on happiness and income of assets, gifts and other revenues. In 2020, support was granted to natural and legal persons in the case. A total of 525000 kuna were paid from the title of scholarships to students in regular high school education in 2020. The Foundation also carried out a number of independent activities during the year for the family in need to provide additional value to children and improve the quality of their lives. The total revenue of the foundation in 2020 is 8 million and 787 000 kuna and total expenditures of 8 million 484,000 kuna. The results of the work of the foundation in 2020 show that the foundation justified its purpose during the reporting period and played an extremely important role in the daily improvement of the conditions of growth and development of children and young Croatians. On 1 March 2019, a new Foundation Act entered into force, and therefore the draft law regulates the terminology of the law with the Foundation Act and the correction of certain non-compliant provisions. Based on the report on the work of the 2020 Foundation, the Foundation carried out a series of programmes and projects, and I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt a draft law amending the Act on the Foundation "Croatia for Children". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93568	We've got more replicas. The first is Honored Representative Selak-Raspudic, please. My colleagues Selak-Raspudić you have a replica [[It's over.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93569	Yes, I'm sorry. I asked some professional services, didn't notice you were finished. So when we talk about the incomes of the foundation that are 8 million 787 000 kuna, I'm interested in each other's details. So by studying the careful work of the foundation, the more I look back at the speech on behalf of the club, I noticed that the foundation deals in part with highly commendable projects, and in part, these projects may well be regulated legally, for example, like giving meals to poor children, so that it does not have to fall on the burden of the foundation. At the same time, when we talk about these revenues, we can notice that the proceeds from donations are 400,000 kuna. So the foundation has the opportunity to finance not only from gambling, the state budget, but also from donations. In that sense, I wonder if you have any concrete policies in the plan where you would increase these donations, given that they are currently much less than the revenue from the games, and will you do something in this way to raise the work of the foundation financially?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93570	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93571	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for asking. As you pointed out, and in my opening address, the foundation is funded from the revenue of gambling and by the majority part, and on the other hand the proceeds of assets, gifts and other incomes among other things and donations. The Foundation implements a series of programs and projects. In addition to financing natural and legal persons, there is also funding for scholarships, so students who are assessed on the basis of criteria that are socially endangered and students, but also carry out a number of other independent projects. There are many in the annual report on the work of the foundation available for 2020. You can see exactly what programs and projects are being implemented, so I wouldn't be taking up the time that is already at the end, so I'm not burdening myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93572	Honorable representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93573	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Mađeric. So now we have a situation here that is morally questionable. The foundation's funding source is gambling. Recently, here we discussed the Law on Electronic Media and the advertising of bookies, where we demanded that the commercials were extremely clear and loud on TV, radio or newspapers, and that betting creates a marked addiction, and that in betting or gambling, they were extremely numerous victims of a minor. So I'm talking here if I'm not wrong about something less than nine million kunas, which isn't just from games of chance. So do you think maybe that amount could be risked from the state budget, and then those gambling games run out of one argument that they often use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93574	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93575	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. I would point out here that not only the foundation of Croatia for children and our ministry, but also a series of other ministries and public bodies are also conducting public calls to finance NGOs and all other programmes and projects that are just directed towards the most vulnerable groups, persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, children with disabilities, elderly, powerless, funding of foster families. And it is certainly very important and necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the local (regional) regional self-government units to implement such quality projects in cooperation with NGOs to help wherever it is most needed. The children and family are very much in the focus and work of both our ministry and the work of the foundation "Croatia for Children".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93576	Dear representative Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93577	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation also grants financial support, scholarships to students and students during their regular education. The data show a visible oscillation in the allocation of funds with a tendency to reduce funds and eliminate any students, whether students in the process. The example works, meaning uneven practice, was the year when there were as many as 1458 users and the value of the 12 million kuna scholarship, some years, two years in a row, there was no way that now, two years ago, it would fall on all hundred students who were assigned these, or for 2019, 2020. Five hundred thousand kuna. So we burned on that variant that was the first year that it ever started, and then there were 550,000 kunas, but not for the students, but for the students. And why is that? This unequal practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93578	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93579	Thank you very much for asking. As I pointed out in the introduction and pointed out, one of the activities is exactly the funding and scholarship of students and students. Surely, by the foundation of the budgets we have heard in the previous replicas, which are then determined each year in the amount that will be included in the foundation "Croatia for children". The Foundation also proposes programmes and projects to be financed in the current year. What is even more important here is that the last two years are also faced with the covid crisis and earthquake both in Zagreb and in Banovina, and the foundation grants scholarships based on pre-developed criteria and requirements. We need to know, i.e. I'm sure everyone here knows that, except through the foundation "Croatia for children" scholarships are granted from other public bodies, so whoever accomplishes elsewhere cannot then exercise the right to a scholarship in the foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93580	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93581	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I think the work of the foundation is truly valuable. I see the cooperative's work has 25 projects. They have those projects "I'm traveling", "Know Croatia". It was very interesting to me, too, because I listened to a show, where the director or director of the foundation said that given the earthquake in Glina and Petrinja that the opening of the Center for Psychosocial Assistance was also planned for these children. And I hope he does, and there's been an announcement of a concert in Split. It means that all citizens can be included to donate and attend this concert and I hope that this practice will continue. And it would be nice to go with the foundation all over Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93582	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93583	Thank you, Your Honor. You have now highlighted several quality, independent projects implemented by the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. Last year, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy and the city of Petrinja, and because of the devastating earthquake that occurred in the city of Petrinja and in the area of Banovina Foundation, the purchase of a container for the container settlement, and in collaboration with NGOs Red Cross and UNICEF, and professional workers in social care centres in the Banovina area, as well as workers in primary schools will be provided psychological assistance and work with children because we have seen that it is extremely important support, psychological support for children with earthquake affected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93584	And distinguished representative Maric through a video link, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93585	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is clear that the purpose of these amendments is to comply with the current Foundation Act, which entered into force on 1 March 2019. My question is why have we been waiting here for nearly three years to comply with this March 2019 Foundation Act. Unfortunately, we are also very often behind on harmonising with EU provisions, so we get pucks. But obviously, we can't even comply with our own laws. So why almost three years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93586	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93587	Thanks for asking. Since 1 August 2015 the new Act on the Foundation "Croatia for Children" has been in force as in the opening address. And you yourself have pointed out that this is a termological alignment that is of a technical nature, so the foundation worked normally according to its work programme for each year. And as for the law, they have their own procedure. This law was sent last October 21st to the procedure for amendments and additions, i.e. The coordination that we have today, so we also have at the debate in the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93588	Thank you very much. Then I will open a debate on this proposal and the first one will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's representative, Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary with an associate. Our debate on this subject will not be particularly long. As we had the opportunity to hear here, it is above all about harmonising with the Foundations Act, which the truth is quite late for will, but here is what the secretary of state said in the replica, I would say that also to the comment of colleague Maric, who was very well alerted to this passage in the time that exists. I'd say the responsibility for that is somehow a fitty-fifty, half on us, half on the proposer. But, well, maybe it's not bad that we mentioned it, so here's the best ever than never at all. In the previous two years, the Foundation has shown adequate flexibility to opportunities and exceptional circumstances in which Croatia has been found, and here we have actually had a response to the replica of our colleague we have had the opportunity to hear more about how the foundation has used some of the funds to help affected pandemics and earthquakes, and we consider this to be very positive and we want to commend it. All relevant reports on the work of the foundation since 2009 are available on the foundation's pages and so is the one in the business. The review of these reports shows that most of the foundation's income comes from gambling and to a much smaller extent than donations. In fact, I'm glad that we had an opportunity to hear something in this part of the debate before, because it seems to me that it points to a very similar thinking that exists here in the Parliament, so in this spirit here is an incentive that what I'm about to say next might somehow reflect not only the opinion of our club, but also other clubs. In this regard, we believe that, therefore, the Green-Left bloc club believes that in the coming period it should work to diversify the source of revenue, especially on increasing donations. We would also like to suggest that the proposed composition of the Foundation’s administrative bodies be expanded until the second reading. So they are currently composed exclusively of members and members of the proposed authorities of the state administration, and we would like to suggest that you extend this composition to both members of the private sector and NGOs. This would increase the transparency of the foundation's work and open the door itself and increase the number of donations. Those members should certainly be selected in the competition. Here's because this is the first reading we might not want at this point to give any more concrete suggestions than this, but to give you the opportunity to take our thoughts into consideration until the second reading to suggest in the text actually so that it's settled. A fellow Dretar also mentioned games of chance. Since, as I would say, it's kind of an idea for gambling revenues to be directed to these purposes in order to say these social issues and that makes sense. But at the same time we want to reduce in a way, we want to warn our citizens and citizens that it can create addiction, that it may not be some good practice, so that's two different goals. On the one hand, if the foundation depends on the sources of gambling revenue, which we may want to limit or reduce in some perspective, then it is really necessary to work on diversifying the source of income. If one social policy is successful, then it reflects on the revenues of the foundation, so we hope that our very constructive suggestions will be respected until the second reading and then we will continue this debate in fact. And I'm glad, I'm really glad that in this part before the debate opened on behalf of the clubs I've heard very similar thoughts from different parts of this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93590	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most will now speak the esteemed representative Marija Selak-Raspadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93591	In this presentation, I will also take a closer look at this issue that I have asked about the work of the foundation, because it is partly unclear to me, and I think that we should discuss in this debate what is a foundation, or what should be its scope, so that we can assess how well it is doing this job and what should be the scope of the work of some other state bodies or, in particular, measures or legislative changes that would allow for better quality lives for children who have certain needs that are met through the foundation. Because as the name suggests, and when we look at the field of foundation, we'll think it's a charity organization. And that's okay, we have a different civil NGO in society. However, what kind of charity the members of which come from any parliament, whether from the respective ministries, are selected by members of the administration and whose work in some way covers the holes of what has not been achieved within the regular state policies. Is it an extended hand from the Ministry of Labour, or is it a social one, or is it some kind of enclave to serve as a charity. Because we are fully clear and expected that civil society organisations are working through different projects and helping independently of what the state is doing. But when an organisation that is at the level of governance properties associated with the state, the question arises, is it not logical that this same burden is passed on to itself by the state within the competent ministries because we have here another organization, a particular foundation that has eight employees and which does work covers the holes of what is not well recognised and is the need of our younger citizens within Croatian society. So that's the first question that stays open for discussion. The second question relates to the results of the work and the way in which this foundation is financed, which again in order to be able to answer it, we should also resolve this ambiguity about what the foundation is and what its job description should be, and thus who should manage this foundation. Thus, here is the report on the work of the 2020 Foundation, the need to ensure the continued inflow of funds from part of the gambling revenue as so far. Therefore, it only mentions that other sources of funding will be found to expand the foundation's activities in the future in line with the achievements so far. I have to admit, it's quite unambitious from my perspective. It's a trust fund that if we trust media writings, but also what she boasts about in her report has an extremely good one, they say excellent media coverage. It is a state foundation that provides certain credibility about how the funds should be spent should be transparent. And then the question arises to me here, and why is this financial plan so unambitious, is once again based solely on the safe revenues from gambling that are redistributed within the state budget, while this additional part of which, given the specificity of its role, has the right to do so, and concerns donations or any other revenue at all, is not being discussed. Which partners will the foundation address in the future? How much does he plan to increase his funding from a donation? So it's a trust that can easily be advertised by different companies, which will certainly contribute to the improvement of our children, to all those in need of whom the foundation is currently giving money. You have media availability, you have a state guarantee, you have a board of directors composed of all those actors who participate in the government in this country and you continue to be financially based on gambling. In particular, 8 million 787 000 donations amounted to only 400 000. See how much money especially when we talk about covid has gathered, sorry, and the earthquake has gathered from some NGOs? Can't one trust fund that is a separate body and has eight employees do more to collect donations that will obviously be easily presented to the media, thereby increasing its own resources and allowing for the financing of additional projects that are in the interest of our children. I think it's a matter that we need to take a closer look at and work on, and then it's in the foundation's conclusion that an ambitious plan might be presented. As for quality projects that the foundation has financed so far and has certainly been involved in my school, car school, enabling car school to be attended by children who are institutions of social care is something that is very useful. However, there are some projects such as co-financing of school nutrition costs for children living in poverty or at risk of poverty in the school year 2019/20. A year. Of course, this commendably financed a five - and - a - half - kuna school meal for 1721 children. But what I'm interested in is whether this covers the need for all children at risk of poverty and is this the way to finance their meal? Can we at all within the school system, and we have a resolute ministry, so the Ministry of Education and Science can allow the diet of children at risk of poverty to depend on the funds of the foundation, or should this be systematically resolved at the level of the ministry that will show social sensitivity so that these children and all children at risk of poverty and poverty have a guaranteed meal in schools they go to. So I think that this should be resolved in an unequivocally systematic manner, and not in such a way that it remains at the level of whether it will be one of the foundation projects that may change over the years and because the foundation is funding different projects. It would also be when we talk about this part of how certain projects are financed, and every honour to many of the praises that are part of this foundation's work, and I wouldn't want to diminish any of it. However, I am asked the question when I am talking about co-financing of projects and legal persons programmes why is this happening through a public call? Would it be more appropriate for this to happen through a public tender? Because there is a possibility of a complaint in a public tender, the criteria are quite different. Then, which means that part of this happens through direct co-financing of legal persons' projects and programmes by single allocation of financial resources. What criteria and when will money be financed directly? There are many factors in society where money is needed and there is nowhere to be left to be biased in the allocation of financial resources. It also refers to the direct co-financing of projects and programmes of legal persons with exclusive competence in the field of action or geographical area for which the financial resources are allocated. I do not know what the criterion is, because the criteria previously need to be of course what this project or programme is dealing with or which the only organisations are operationally capable of working in the field of action. So, what that would mean exactly and whether we can leave the interpretation space that the organisations are only operationally capable of is also something that leaves the possibility of interpretation. I think that it should be made clearer, because I repeat, it is a matter of granting state funds with a wave, and less donations that I hope will change in the future to certain institutions, or projects that will further redistribute them to children who need them. I support, of course, the work of the foundation, and I support all the quality projects within this foundation. Legislative amendments are a small part and are mainly based on the harmonisation and erasure of certain provisions relating to laws that are no longer valid, so in this sense they are not so controversial. However, I think that the foundation, given all the comparative advantages it has, is able to raise its donations more clearly, that it must set up a system of who it will finance and some projects concerning basic human rights of children such as the right to a warm meal in a school establishment must be unequivocally resolved in the cooperation of the Resent Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Labour and the Social and not left to the burden of a foundation that may possibly change its projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93592	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak through a video link. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93593	Thank you very much. I'll talk to you later? All right, all right. [[I'll talk to you later. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. So we've already said that it's a pretty simple change in these additions to the law. Therefore, the current law is in line with the provisions of the Foundation Act. We said it had already entered into force on 1 March 2019. Once again, I ask the question why has this been waiting almost three years? It's not good that here's the constant impression that we're late in a lot of ways. We hope that even in these changes where it says that the Management Board of the Foundation is obliged... Foundations within 60 days, they won't be late. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's an invitation to the Ministry to follow all these deadlines. The funds are required to publish the accounting system as a whole and to publish the second on their web pages or in other appropriate means of publication, and indeed, if you work hard, you can see on the foundation's pages that there are reports and external auditors in 2015 to 2020, annual reports on the work of the foundation, 2009 to 2020. All you need to do is click on the icon to access information and in principle and is the purpose not only of course of the foundation to help children, but also to do this job very transparently. So here I call on everyone who's interested in going to the foundation's pages and clicking on this right to access information, where I can see all the reports. As for the foundation "Croatia for Children" itself, it was founded in 2008, then the first one was the Foundation Act and was revised in 2010. And then there was a new law in 2015. The Foundation was entered in the register of the RS Foundation on 23 February 2009 under registration number 139 and then on 10 August 2009 in the register of non-profit organisations in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance under regular number 000527. Why am I saying that? Because I was trying to get into the foundation register, I typed in both two numbers, trust names, etc. but I couldn't get any information from that register. According to the Foundation Act, the purpose of the foundation is to promote the well-being of personal property rights of children, empowering families in situations of various social, health, educational and educational needs of children, and this is achieved by giving in money and stuff, supporting cultural, educational, sports, recreation, religious and other content by providing support to the general instruments of the Foundation. And here I think we're all thinking the same thing, actually supporting the work of a trust in this kind of transparent help to needy children. The fund we heard was funded from the revenue from gambling, then based on assets and donations or other sources, and it is not really good that it depends only on the revenues of games to happiness, but to make it possible to donate as much as possible. But then again, we ask the question why the state doesn't fully realize its role in helping children who need it, so here's the kind of foundation that jumps in. According to the Foundation Act, it is prescribed that users of support can be natural legal persons. Therefore, financial support is given to natural persons, the co-financing of entities and legal persons' programmes, scholarships to students and students during regular schooling and other forms of support. And says the Foundation's mission to increase the birth rate, promote family values, strengthen families with more children and larger families, families in sparsely populated and traffic isolated areas and children from these families, families of single parents and children from those families, families of pregnant women, births, mothers and children exposed to health risks and risks of educational, educational, social and cultural exclusion, and children without parents and children without parental care. They also have plans for the future, so that they continue to help children achieve quality content of growing up, to complement the efforts of the state bodies, that is what we have said in achieving better children's lives, to implement their own projects and to support the work of other institutions whose mission includes children's well-being to work on the visibility of children's needs, to continue to sensitise the public for the specific needs of children and to be an effective platform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the daily improvement of child growth and development conditions. And then the fundamental values of the foundation are just that our citizens know that, so the foundation states that they are guided by the principles of empathy, efficiency, justice, openness to cooperation, transparency and innovation. There is also a Facebook site of the foundation, where there are over 9000 people following it and it is actually good that as many citizens as possible know what opportunities the foundation provides and what competitions our citizens can report to. As far as income itself is concerned, here I am now looking at this financial report for 2020. So the total income of 8 million 787000 kuna is less than the previous year when it was 9 million and 400,000. As for expenditure here is a particularly interesting total item, so now for 2020, 8 million and 484,000 kuna, and a year ago 10 million kuna. Here there is a point of promotion and information service where it is for 2020. Spent 143934 kuna and intellectual and personal services 59, nearly 60 000 kuna. I think really, given this not very small item, it should be a little bit better and more generous actually to make a promotion, informing our citizens of which they can actually compete and apply. As far as the foundation's structure is concerned, there is a board of directors who has seven members, and when you look around here, they practically rotate all the same names of our HDZ colleagues. The chairman of the Management Board is here is Minister Aladrovic, but here are the colleagues and then practically here are how the appointments change, practically the same names. The trustee also exists as a professional foundation service. As far as the foundation’s activities are concerned, it is good to provide as much support as possible. I already said that it should be a little more generous to animate people and give them transparency to know what they can apply to, what projects and programmes they can apply to, means not only individual citizens, but also legal persons who are the possibilities of donations, i.e. what are the independent projects of the foundation. I don't see on-line how much time I have left, so I'm going to touch a little bit more at the final, but anyway, here's the work of the foundation, it's okay, it's gotta be transparent, and here's another comment in the final word. Here's a thank you so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93594	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93595	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, honored secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The existence of such a trust should absolutely be supported. What is ahead of us is a small document for which colleagues in previous discussions have concluded what is clear, that in fact we just need to comply with the Foundations Act, which came into force on 1 March 2019. Now it's over and March 2022. Okay. Obviously, some discrepancies with the Law on Foundations have been shown, so we must also change this Act on the Foundation of Croatia for Children. Nominally, as mentioned by respected colleagues before me, this foundation aims to promote the well-being of children's personal and property rights, empowering families in situations of various social, health, educational and educational needs. The Fund, as it stands in their documents, achieves its purpose through the award of financial support intended for children and families with children, one-time financial support to small-value legal persons, scholarships to students in regular secondary education of up to 5000 kuna, and there is also the implementation of different projects aimed at improving the quality of life of children and young people, especially those exposed to the risks of poverty and social exclusion. Money support intended for children and families with children is aimed at families with multiple births, fostered children up to three years of age, sick children, children with health impairment or developmental difficulties, gifted children, children in the education system, of course, and for the current needs of children, children coming out of the welfare system and families economically affected by the covid-19 disease epidemic. Unfortunately, this is an extremely broad definition, because there is currently no family in the world that is not affected by the Covid-19 disease epidemic, but of course we will read this out of good faith. The view of the Foundation's website is really encouraging when you look at a great idea of fashion show "My prom night", "The Sailing weekend" for children without proper parental care, "A young talent concert" should certainly absolutely welcome the existence of this foundation, this legal harmonisation which, of course, the Home Movement Club will absolutely support. But let me, for a moment, just like many before me, take a look at the sources of funding. Yeah, that's where we're at a certain moral break. Of course, gambling is something that is completely legitimate. It is a kind of economic activity quite successful not only in Croatia but throughout the world. The fact is that gambling can cause addiction. That's right. So we are here in one situation where we pretend not to see an elephant in the room, to finance ourselves from games of happiness that create problems at the same time, and often with those most vulnerable which is respected by Mrs. Majarić in response to my replica and said, and she was absolutely right. What bothers me on an idealistic level sometimes gets a little itchy here. The donations amount to 400,000 kuna a year, divided into months, let's say that it's about 30 and 2,3 thousand kuna a month, so let's just let it be, I hope that the respected chairman doesn't throw me out of the topic, where Croatian tycoons are now, where billions have been stolen in the greatest robbery of all time in so-called time. Privatisation. When you look at the history of these spaces, especially those urban ones, you will see galleries, you will see exhibition spaces, museums, opera houses, theaters built by donations from rich people, built 50, 80, 100 or 200 years ago. Rich people always felt social responsibility and had to because they had their wealth and acquired within a social community. That responsibility was then shown, or we can even call it gratitude by building churches, building hospitals, building what they had already built, museums, galleries, in some ways returning to the community some of the goods they had economically exhausted from it. I didn't hear that any big company in Croatia really did do something serious. According to my assessment of a donation to a foundation of this kind that has this clear program and for another set of trusts that have equally clear programs shouldn't be less than 400 million kunas a year. Unfortunately, we're in a country where that's not the case. There's, of course, talk, there's no one to blame, it's just like that, we're mentality like that. However, in any case, this technical alignment with the Foundations Act is not seen by any basis questionable and is supported by the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement without any question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93596	In the name of the Social Democrats Club, Irena Simunic will speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93597	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Foundation of Croatia for Children. These amendments comply with the current law with the provisions of the Foundation Act which entered into force on 1 March 2019. The analysis of the normative framework identified the need to bring Croatia's Foundation Act in line with the new legislation. Harmonisation is not disputed and it is necessary, it is only a few articles that are being amended, but the question is whether such self-ordination should have taken nearly 3 years. The Croatian Foundation for Children is a non-profit organisation founded in 2008 by the Republic of Croatia while the founding rights and obligations are fulfilled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its behalf. The Act on Foundation Croatia for children regulates the ways and conditions of the work of the foundation Croatia for children, basic assets and methods and sources of funding. Questions which are not regulated by law are prescribed to apply the provisions of the laws governing foundations and foundations. The work of the foundation is public, it is mandatory for the public and means of public communication to provide information on the performance of the business from its activity. The Foundation Management Board shall be managed by 7 members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the decisions of the Management Board, the Foundation's revenue shall be allocated for trustary purposes in accordance with the financial plan, the annual work plan and the general acts of the Foundation. The work of the foundation is primarily financed from the revenues made by the state from gambling and revenue from assets, donations and other revenues. The financial year of the Foundation of the Year begins on January 1st, ends on December 31st, and the Management Board of the Foundation is obliged to submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the work of the Foundation for the past year by 30 April of the year. According to the latest report, the total income held by the foundation in 2020 amounted to 8 million 787 thousand 907 kuna while the total expenditure was 8 million 484 thousand 681 kuna. It is also evident that there are around 2 million expenditures for employees and material expenditures while in part of donations expenditures were allocated to financial support for natural persons in the largest part of the total amount of 4 million 376 thousand 624 kuna, money support for legal persons around 151 thousand kuna and praises the project Food Children in primary schools for the school year 2019/20. About a million and 355,000 kunas. It means that the Croatian Foundation grants financial support to natural persons or families in need in accordance with the applicable Regulation on species, conditions and procedure for granting support. In 2020, the Foundation approved the payment of a total of 985 financial support to natural persons. for families based on decisions of the Management Board, and this financial support for multiple delivery was 122 with an average amount of any support of around 4,000 kuna, for each fostered child up to 3 years of age, the average amount of around 4,000 kuna, for sick children, for children with health impairment and for children with developmental disabilities was achieved 82 support of an average amount of around €11,500 while for gifted children, only 3 support was paid with an average amount of HRK 10,000. For children in the education system, 384 support was implemented, for the current life needs of children 120 support, for children coming out of the social care system only 5 support with an average amount of support of around 13,200 kuna. This year, money support was also achieved for families economically affected by the Covid-19 epidemic with an average, 230 support with an average amount of support of around 3,700 kuna. The Croatian Foundation also grants financial support to students and students during their regular education. From the draft to the present day, she held several public invitations to grant scholarships to students and thus received about 1,923 secondary school students and 2,419 students. In addition, it shall co-finance projects and programmes of legal persons through a public tender or a public call for applications to be discussed on the basis of the previous decision of the Management Board of the Foundation, as a rule once a year. In this way, financial support is granted for a series of valuable projects and programmes that are all focused on the welfare of children and young people and support to them through various contents that are vital to their growth and development. Thus, to date, meanings were made according to data from their website in total 5 public calls at the end of 2014, the second in August 2016, in 2018 there were as much as 2 public calls one in April, one in August, and according to these existing data one public call in May 2019. In the end, I want to say that every investment in children, in young investment in the future, we all support this and that is the mission of the foundation of Croatia for children who should at any moment be guided by the fundamental values of empathy and understanding of the deep needs of children and will to help them, the efficiency that implies speed, proactiveness and expertise in processing user demands in this never forgetting the justice of providing opportunity to any child who needs help. I would also stress transparency, which means working on public availability of information to avoid some of the most needed children being denied for help because of lack of information and ignorance that there is essentially a trust and what opportunities and benefits it can provide and how it can help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93598	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ljubica Lukačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93599	Dear Vice-President, the respected secretary of state with co-worker, respected colleague and colleague, here is the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Foundation of Croatia for Children. This law regulates the way and conditions of the foundation of Croatia for children, and further on all those issues, so that its property is not now listed any further, and all those issues that are not regulated by this law are prescribed to apply the provisions of the law governing the foundations and foundations. So it's so boring. However, given that on 1 March 2019 the Foundation Act came into force, it is necessary to comply with this law, and it is estimated that harmonisation as I said is necessary, and this refers to the terminology of the law with the Foundation Act, and here we have several amendments to certain non-compliant legal provisions. This is all to be done in order for the foundation to continue to work normally and in order for everything to be in accordance with the law and, of course, to carry out its purpose, mission, and purpose. The purpose of the foundation Croatia for children is to promote the well-being of children's personal and property rights and to empower families in situations of various social, health, educational and educational needs of children. The Fund achieves its purpose through the award of financial support to children and families through the allocation of one-off small-value financial support to legal persons, scholarships to students on a regular high-school education basis and the basis of a public call and this scholarship is 5,000 kuna and the implementation of various projects aimed at improving the quality of life of children and young people, especially those at the risk of poverty or social exclusion. Money support is intended for children and families with children, is focused on families where multiple births exist, so families with multiple births, families where children are fostered up to 3 years of age, families who have sick children or children with developmental difficulties, families who have gifted children and children in the system of education for the current needs of children and families, or are targeted at children coming out of the welfare system and families who are economically affected by the Covida-19 epidemic. We see how much the foundation helps through, through requests sent to the trust and through funds that have been paid over the years. During 2020, the Foundation approved a total of 985 financial support to natural persons and families based on decisions made by the Management Board of 4 million 434 thousand and 254 kuna. So this was in 2020 until a total of 744 requests arrived in 2021, and the foundation paid about 3 million and 228 thousand kuna. There's so much about it. So, as I said, this law implements the harmonisation of certain provisions, there are not many of them and there are only 6 articles that change, amend certain provisions or coordinate. The Foundation Croatia has its basic values for children, and fundamental values are empathy, efficiency, justice, openness to cooperation, transparency and innovation. Since the foundation does indeed have, it has the opportunity to help children, its children, and it does so to families, I am sure that it will meet its goal in this 2022 year. That they will fulfill their mission, which is on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on their own but also with partners to promote the rights and opportunities of children to individual development, but to contribute to the achievement of excellence and progress in their lives. The Foundation helps children of Croatia who need this support and help to achieve better and more content growth. It complements and explores the efforts of state bodies to achieve better lives of children, acts through the design and implementation of its own projects, and the support and work of other institutions whose mission includes the welfare of children and trusts is concerned that the public knows the needs of children and represents an effective platform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the daily improvement of their conditions, growth and development. I believe that children will continue to enjoy the help and support they will receive from the foundation and I would like to say in the end that this law, or these amendments to the law, do not require the provision of funds in the state budget and that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93600	Thank you. We are going to an individual debate and will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93601	Good day to all of you who are left behind, it's not exactly my goal to have a debate with myself so I'm going to put questions on the agenda, and if there's no interest, then we're going to conclude this individual debate. I can say that I am sorry that there is no greater interest because I think that the work of the foundation is important and that we can contribute here to making it even better because it has a particular impact on those in society, perhaps even the most important, and these are the lives of children who, according to their social status and other living circumstances, belong to a vulnerable group. What I'm interested in and what I wanted to talk about in more detail with colleagues who are not in the individual debate except a few here exceptions is do we think that the foundation should increase the funds it receives from donations? That's the first question. And the second question concerns these projects that are really important and that relate to the needs of children who are poor or at risk of poverty, which are, for example, warm meals. Whether this should be left to the trust or something should still be financed under some other activities where such permanent and unequivocal financing will be made possible. So, I see there's almost no one here, and then we'll be surprised at those grades and the media signs, so I'll stop here. I would only point out that when we talk about the distribution of allocated support by species in 2020. to also ask some questions that I would like to hear the answer to. For example, money support is given for a foster child up to 3 years of age, I do not know why it is only until 3 years old, it is clear that these are smaller children who may need larger funds. However, all foster children, and children can be fostered later, and our goal right now is to encourage the fostering of these children who are long in the system and who need financial support, so this might be an additional way to make it easier for the foster parents and I think that maybe they should expand that year and for those over the years. As for money support for gifted children here we talk about only three support, I don't know if there's not enough interest or if this isn't the way it's being financed, it would be logical for me to talk about more support, and then we have separate support for children in the education system, I don't know how they're separated from support for gifted children and support for children's life needs. Therefore, the purpose of the foundation is to promote the well-being of children's personal and property rights and to strengthen families in situations of various social and health, educational and educational needs of children, and this is for support in money. I'd like to know what my colleagues think about, whether more donations are needed because I think this type of trust can ensure that and whether we should leave everything to the foundations or need an institutional solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93602	We have a replica of the respected representative Maric who is on video.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93603	Here, dear fellow, here I am also sorry that we are not many, the topic is very important, there are very many needy children who could certainly use any money help, not just children, but also families. We've already highlighted something in previous discussions. I'm going to touch on more questions that you asked in your final debate, and as far as foster children are concerned, why it's only until the 3rd year. And as for the promotion itself, the promotion should still be a little stronger and more generous. Here I was able to find for this new measure for countries, for, for families affected by the pandemic, practically post HINA and nothing more. I don't know how to get the information except every time they go to the foundation's pages, so it should be a little more leaky information. And as far as donations are concerned, we should obviously work together to make more donations, since the state is unable to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93604	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93605	I agree with you, colleague Maric. I think you could do a lot of work on donations, and I'm afraid we're witnessing here a continuing problem in the Republic of Croatia that is rarely in state institutions, which is when you have safe incomes like you have here, so you don't have to think so much about additional activities because they don't affect your survival on the market, especially when you have this type of moral satisfaction because this is about a trust that helps children's well-being. That is why our moral responsibility is greater and should be done more at the promotion. Here they boast that they have a very good response from the media to their activities, which means that we have an amazing space for improving, encouraging donations and advertising and other projects. I appreciate the valuable projects that are being done here, but I think it's safe to improve the work of this foundation by helping an even greater number of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93606	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Budinski will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93607	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, honorary secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation is hereby laid down in this law the methods and conditions of the operation of the Foundation, the purpose, bodies of the Foundation, the underlying assets, and the means and sources of financing. Questions not regulated by this law are prescribed to be subject to the provisions of the law governing the foundations and foundations. The basis of the law is the Republic of Croatia, we have heard this before, the founding rights in the name of the Republic of Croatia are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the name of the foundation is "Croatia for children", the foundation is located in Zagreb, the foundation is a legal person, and the property of a legal person is obtained by enrolment in the Register of Foundations of the Republic of Croatia. The work of the foundation is public, the foundation is mandatory to the public and the means of public communication to provide information on the performance of the business from its activity. The purpose of the Foundation is to promote the welfare and rights of children, empowering families through the award of one-off money support, scholarships to students on regular high school education based on a 5,000 kuna public tender, and the implementation of various projects aimed at improving the quality of life of children and young people, especially those at risk of poverty, social exclusion, fostered children up to 3 years of age, sick children, children with developmental difficulties, gifted children, the current life needs of children, children coming out of the welfare system, and families who are economically affected by the epidemic of covida-19 disease. During 2020 The foundation granted a total of 985 financial support to families based on decisions of the Management Board totalling 4 million 434 thousand and 254 kuna. The analysis of the normative framework assessed the need to bring the law in line with the Foundation Act. The proposed amendments regulate the fundamental harmonisation of laws and the correction of certain non-compliant legal provisions. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Foundation of Croatia for Children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93608	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative, Marija Selak-Raspudić, will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93609	Here, I'll be brief. For the purpose of constructive improvement of the work of this extremely important foundation, I would focus on three requirements of the Most Representatives Club. The first is clear funding, i.e. the allocation of funds which means that some projects are financed directly, which means that they are financed through public calls, whether public tenders should be set up simply so that we do not allow room for any doubt or do not give God a malfeasance. The second request is to raise donations and some donor networks that would allow for a significant increase in the funds of this trust, which, since it depends on the state, has some security and stability guarantee that can enable donors to know how their money is spent. I also see a space for the greatest progress that would allow the benefit of the largest number of children. The third proposal applies to projects that are not of additional importance, but vital to children, which are children who are in poverty and the risk of poverty when we talk about the right to a warm meal in Croatia should not be a child who does not have a warm meal. So when we talk about it, we need to enable the problem to be resolved systematically, not to remain on the burden of this foundation. The Foundation can be an additional incentive in financial terms to parents and families who are in difficulty mainly to children, but cannot be the one who solves their basic needs of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93610	On behalf of the SDP club, SDP advocates will finally speak to the respected representative Andreja Maric through a video link. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93611	Thank you very much. Here's a few final sentences. I would remind here that in April 2020, a new Regulation on amendments and additions to rights was adopted, on species, conditions and procedure for granting support to the Croatian Children's Foundation, so in terms of transparency, the foundation is clearly sticking to that adopted rule, and we hope that it will no longer come across articles that I encountered where, for example, in 2016, there were a lot of questions as to why they first shared money from the foundation and then published the money. Well, here's hoping it'll all be more transparent together. As for the users of the support here, I have come across the pages of a foundation that are often asked questions that direct potential users, so here is not bad for our citizens to know that there are questions and answers that give a foundation why some items are out of time, why something has refused, etc. So it tells our citizens to look at the pages of the foundation. As far as the activities themselves are concerned, support has been granted, as we have already told first row individuals. 2020. A total of 985 aid was paid, a total of 4 million 434000 kuna, an average amount of support of 4500 kuna. Who got it all in 2020? So in case of multiple births of 122 support, for a foster child up to 3 years of age, 39 support. Here's the question I'm seriously asking why the limit of three years is at the moment of submission? Then for sick children, children with health damage and children with developmental difficulties 82 support. What fell into my eyes of money support for gifted children, where families and families with one or more children enter when one or more children generously only three support amounts to a total of 32000 kuna, means an average of 10678 kuna. So we still have a little more gifted children, obviously citizens don't know about the possibility of applying. Then financial support for children in the 384 support system. It's good to have elementary schools, high school, high school, high school, university or specialist studies. Money support for the current life support of children 120 support, for children leaving the system only care for 5 support. I believe there are more needs. And it's good that this new item for families is economically affected by covida-19 230 support, the average value of 3686 kuna. I reiterate that there was too little promiscuity in that sense. So, you need to work a little bit more on informing citizens. The projects and programmes of legal persons are then co-financed again for those aimed at empowering the family, for the benefit of children and young people. Which can be legal persons, civil society organisations, legal entities established to carry out cultural, educational, sports, recreation, religious activities, public institutions, public administration bodies, bodies of local self-government institutions and bodies of units of regional or regional self-government. So here are these commendable projects, for example, for the Croatian Association for Rare Diseases, a project called the implementation of newborn breakthrough. There are, of course, scholarships that I have already mentioned where they went for the amount per person 5000 kuna, then independent projects of the foundation. This has already been a talk of co-financing of school food costs for children living in poverty. Unfortunately, only five counties include 10 founders and 40 primary schools. I believe there's need and more. Well then a concert of young talent Foundation Croatia for children, educational and professional panel discussions which I hope will be more because there is a need for mental health of children and onward, and car school, so my new school and my graduation evening and project I travel, sport for all and humanitarian action We join Croatian hearts. So this is what I wanted to put an emphasis on that as many citizens as possible know what this is about, to be of course as many donations as possible, not that the foundation is based on gambling and we warn, of course, that all resolution ministries are not late when certain legal provisions need to be harmonised with either the EU or our own provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-18-0.u93612	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
