ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102742	Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning. Based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives have proposed that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. Do you agree? You're not. Okay. Then we'll have to vote. Can we do it now? You know that in this case, it is decided by the number of MPs and MPs who are in the assembly, and then we will see who has the majority. So who's in favor of a united hearing for those two laws? Please raise your hand. Please count my colleague, Bucarica. 14 meals. Now who's against it? We're not going to have a united debate because there were more deputies, because there were more MPs for this decision,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102820	Ms. Ruzica Vukovac Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102821	Thank you. Croatia has one of the EU's most tropical economies, and we have been overcome by almost all the former communist countries of Eastern Europe after development. Due to poor economic activity, new jobs are not created to a large enough extent, resulting in mass eviction to the west. According to demographic estimates, but according to the census results, several hundred thousand people have moved out of Croatia. The cause of these problems lies in the fact that Croatia often has an hostile relationship with entrepreneurship, which is evident through numerous administrative obstacles and burdens that prevent normal work and competitiveness on the market. A few years ago, they presented to us the Action Plan for administrative redistribution of the economy, which in the first phase reduces costs as they announced operations of up to 1.5 billion kuna in total. It was based on the so-called. Standard Cost Model or method, i.e. internationally recognised methodology developed in the Netherlands. Implementation of business climate reform is a priority in many Member States in order to disburse entrepreneurs from excessive regulatory, various costs and burdens, and reportedly a systematic and complete solution has been prepared for years. Implementation should have been a matter of a series of resolutions, and the goal should have been to design solutions that would release the potential of the private sector and markets that create added value as much as possible. It came from an analysis of the time and material costs lost by the entrepreneur to meeting various administrative requirements. All these costs if they are shown to be unwarranted, it is necessary to remove them because they have a negative impact on job creation and investment. Standard Cost Model is an internationally recognised methodology created in the Netherlands to measure and encourage the reduction of administrative burden on the economy. It is now used across the EU and OECD countries. Standard Cost Model is one of the so-called. the reed type of challenge tool to assess the costs that the regulator imposes on the economy and citizens. This examines the inexcusability or justification of regulation and any administrative obligation such as cost-benefit analysis. Often, surpluses are shown that directly burden those who create values on the market. The measured costs tell us how much their freedoms at their disposal are lost by the entrepreneur in order to meet bureaucratic obligations. All that costs jobs and investments. Standard Cost Model methodology measures how long the gross hourly, fixed material costs and various fees an entrepreneur loses for various administrative obligations with bureaucracy up to the level of data in some form and some actions. It is seen how frequent such an obligation has been plus what number of entrepreneurs it relates to. The critical variables shall then be subject to plans to cut excess costs at the desired amount and shall define the concrete measures to be taken by the competent institutions to cheaper operating conditions. I believe you're guessing, despite the announcement of this reform we haven't seen much in practice. Entrepreneurs have become increasingly burdened year after year in the very mercilessness of our country. Economic freedoms are getting lower and tighter. The Baltic countries were behind us ten years ago, but we were overrun by explosives because of a high level of economic freedom. We cannot compare with Western Europe yet, however, Czechs and Estonians are seriously competing, and in some things they are better. It is a big thing when Estonia participates in the frameworks of the cooperation of the Nordic countries. Estonia is not as developed as Scandinavia because it has had a history of communist terror, yet the Estonians have Nordic mentality, so it all goes easily and simply without losing energy to indecision and various wanderings. The Baltic countries have decided to radically free themselves and flee from the Russian influence zone. And where are we by mentality? There are too many Balkan mentalities that pose an obstacle to rational and smart people in this country. Totalitarian and authoritarian values are still present in these areas, so there is no overall progress. We're obviously nostalgic about false memory syndrome instead of looking at the great future that we can create today. We need new smart people and major massive changes in the system of values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102934	Mrs. Majda Buric, HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, despite all the challenges we have faced in the last 2.5 years from the crown crisis that cost us more than 42 billion kuna to earthquakes that have made financial damage more than three crowns together to nothing caused by Russian aggression on Ukraine, so despite all this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been constantly increasing wages so today the average salary is more than, slightly more than 1,000 euros, increasing continued pensions, so the average pension in the Republic of Macedonia is today without international contracts of nearly 3,000 kuna, and the average pension of 40 and more years without international contracts is almost 5,000 kuna. The number of employees in the Republic of Croatia is constantly growing and today the number of employees is also never again in free Croatia and is one million and 622 thousand workers, which is almost 100,000 employees compared to 2 years ago. At the same time, the number of unemployed decreases rapidly, and it is now slightly higher than 100,000, and I really expect this number of unemployed to fall below 100,000. Within only 2 years, within a year I apologize, we paid 2 single bonuses to pensioners who have a pension of less than 4,000 kuna, up to 1,200 kuna of a single allowance, which means that in a year, those with the lowest pensions actually received an allowance of up to 2,400 kuna and 2 extras. One applied as you know of the Covid supplement, and the other so-called. Energy supplement. All of these positive results that I've listed and which, in my opinion, have this greater weight since we're in crisis, all of these results have not fallen from Mars, but are the result of good work and good governance. At the time of some other governments more specifically at the time of the sixth worst government, not my own, but the World Economic Forum's evaluation, I'm talking about the SDP government, it wasn't that it wasn't even that it was quite opposition. So we remember that then there were known separations of pensions at the expense of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and we remember that 4 billion kunas were taken from the personal accounts of the second pension pillar, and we remember that no indexed pensions were increased at that time, and otherwise this government carried out a comprehensive pension reform, reformed the pension system with the aim of sustainability of the pension system, but also raising the adequateness of pensions or their suitability, or simplifying it until the end, to increase pensions. In this regard, in my opinion, a good result has been achieved and led by it, as my colleague Hrelja said, pension reform continues in terms of improving the position of people who have a family pension. How will that happen? In a way that users of family pensions will allow them to make a fairer calculation of pensions, so these peacemakers will increase by an average of 250 kuna per month, and the paper is that there will be a combination of two pensions. Maintaining a full personal pension and combining the family pension of the deceased partner, which will increase these pensions on average by about 510 kuna per month. All of this is also prescribed by the documents that I will specify chronologically, above all, it was the HDZ election programme, after which the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, then the National Development Strategy and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I remind you that the family pension today is slightly less than 2,500 kuna and that these changes will include nearly 300,000 users for which more than 4 billion kuna will be provided by 2025. And of course I do. I welcome all these positive changes. [[Intruder: Time.]] I know a lot of people get in the way. Especially from the opposition, these results and that they are miserablely turning their eyes to a solid relationship with those [[Intruder: Thank you.]] having less, but certainly great support related to promotion [[Intruder: Thank you Mrs. Buric, thank you.]] Retirement system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u102936	Thank you. Please don't give me any tolerance. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103028	I would like to thank the chairman, my colleagues and my colleagues. I'm going to talk about an article published in the media, more specifically about a title and a subtitle that obviously didn't get too much media attention, or the general public's attention, but here's the one that got mine, and it says it like this. Maric, thought of Minister Zdravko Marić, Marić on an enormous discount in the hotel, I booked cheaper accommodation, they offered me cheaper accommodation, it happens to me all the time, and what is it about? In one of the best hotels in Croatia's Adriatic, which has received a preferential HBOR loan for its investments, the HBOR is a state-owned development bank in which the finance minister is in office, acting as chairman of the Supervisory Board, and in such a bank, in such HBOR, the hotel has received a preferential loan for its investment, and Minister Maric has an enormous discount for accommodation in a luxury apartment. Namely, the price of one night, if I understand correctly by writing the media is over 1000 euros, but the Maric family paid only 290, 700 euros in savings and said Minister Maric that it happens to him all the time, but nothing to anyone, so what's the problem here? The problem is in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which defines what is considered an illicit gift, so an illicit gift is considered to be any value, any service of the day without compensation to the one who receives the gift, which is the official, can be regarded as a matter of dependence to the minister. The hotel which has an investment paid out of the privileged HBOR privileged loan related to the problems, rights and interests arising from this credit relationship may in any case have its own interest to give the minister a little credit and therefore entails the minister's obligation to protect his integrity and also the confidence of citizens in the public authorities to receive such an illicit gift, but Maric clearly cannot do so. What is an even bigger problem, the problem is that there is no institution that would be able to address this kind of frequent hospitality and worship of a 700-euro minister at night and declare that what is essentially in its essence is the opening of corruption, allowed or access to break anything that the state should serve at such a small door, which is objective, objective criteria in allocating everything that the state through its institutions has to offer to everyone. Why is this no longer possible, why cases in the work of the commission as we once had the opportunity to see, partly because of the very change in the law that further weakened this body, instead of strengthening it, it was partly because of the changed case law that served as a basis and trigger for the weakness and destruction of this institution, and it was partly wrong and the commission itself that, under various pressures on all sides, somehow gave rise to their work to justify and cover all malversions by the authorities, all of what is wrong in their actions rather than actually serving some kind of prevention of corruption. I am also saddened that I warned all of this back in 2019, and I have announced that this will happen, so it is not surprising that that cynical comment today from the HDZ MPs' ranks that the implementation of any meaningful and over-supervised corruption prevention strategies that I am looking for will simply have to wait for a better time in which HDZ will not have a parliamentary majority, and among these proposals that I have advocated is a completely different design of such a preventive anti-corruption body. Above all, it is necessary to significantly extend the scope of powers and competence, and then to introduce stronger information tools, so a bunch of public registers that are publicly available to citizens, and a body that should deal with corruption prevention would have the tools to analyse these data and to severely punish all those who find themselves in any irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103029	You, too. And now it's Madam. Romana Nikolic, who will present the position of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103096	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Many students, especially those working the season, have found themselves in trouble. Students who are tax relief get over the 15 thousand kuna limit very quickly, and those who can easily get close to 63,000 kuna throughout the year and that is the amount after which student profits are taxed. That is why an initiative by the Croatian Student Assembly itself was launched to increase the limit of 15 thousand kuna. The student assembly calculated that students could earn 13 360 kuna a year through regulated work and another 9 141 kuna for work on Sunday, all in total 22 500 kuna, so a little over 6000 kuna more than the limit that is now defined. The initiative is also joined by the Croatian Employers' Association and proposes to raise the threshold to 30 thousand kuna with a different treatment if the taxpayer or parent has more children. The Social Democrats Club supports the initiatives here because student jobs are an opportunity to open the labour market door, an opportunity to network and acquire work habits and responsibilities, parents allocate a large amount of money so that the child can study and it is commendable if students want to work and contribute. The effort, the work and the sacrifice should be rewarded, not punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103097	Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. We now have applications, applications for a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. That's where it starts with number two, but this is where it starts with He gave up well. [[Intruder: Cancelled.]] Mrs Natalija Martincevic, there is no losing her right. Mr. Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103253	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, 4 weeks ago, the Ministry of Defence announced a public call for co-financing of the costs of preparatory courses for the state's graduation or for the passing of university admission exams of Croatian defenders' children as well as defenders himself. Thanks to this offer, defenders and their children form the only group in the country that has the right to make private preparations for her graduation pay from the budget. It's more devastating for itself and it really needs to be asked over and over again. Should war veterans and their families enjoy such privileges and 30 years after the end of the war? And how long will those benefits be granted? And what needs to happen to be under... So-called the preservation of the dignity of the Homeland War finally ceases to destroy the rise of all war participants and its victims as well as common sense and a basic sense of justice for all Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And both, and that dignity and that sense of justice, are in this very way deeply offended. However, it is not the only defeating side of this public call because there is another, in a certain way, even more painful. And that other truth is only the naked one, the same government that is responsible for the system of state graduation and education as a whole, the same government discredits the education system and openly acknowledges that it is insufficient and unskilled. The same budget that should ensure and improve the quality of education rather than doing just that, the same budget directly finance private projects that owe their very existence and their meaning precisely to the failures and failures of the system. To what extent the system perverted shows this, more and more schools themselves organise preparations for their own students' graduation. It is alarming that nearly two-thirds of high school graduate students attend graduation preparations. The State Graduation Project, instead of fostering and promoting, has been undermining for years. The culmination at least so far has been a provision that allows students to pass the exam in Croatian even if they hand over blank paper on an essay. And the ministry rather than seeking to preserve the system of values and defend the criteria, instead of worrying about the system and its results, the ministry prefers to choose to conceal these results. Because how else do you call this paper just before you mention an empty paper or assessment system where the thresholds of passability are determined and the posterior is based on the results obtained, and they are determined to make the non-transient estimates as little as possible, even if these passing thresholds have been lowered and embarrassingly low. The prom, however, is not a problem for itself. It is merely a reflection or measure of the collapse of our education system as a whole. And all our problems with prom are just consequences, not the cause of the problem. Almost a year ago, the Assembly Committee on Education at the Thematic Session reached conclusions on the problem of lack of qualified school teachers. He proposed possible measures and solutions, sent them to the minister. As if it wasn't, because there was no answer as well as any reaction. In solving this fundamental problem, nothing literally seemed to happen. Does the ministry have anything else to show for it? Any other efforts? Any other plans? Any attempt to improve the school? To meet the needs of society and the needs of time. There isn't. What we have is the introduction of self-inflicted criteria in grading graduation. We have, of course, and we've already got the repertuary of excuses ready. When new test pisa results arrive, although we have entered in the National Strategy wonderful expectations regarding the results of this test. And we have certainly prepared courses for graduation, but we don't have at least this ministry and this government has no will, no desire, no idea how to really fix things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103254	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Ante Pracacin, will be the positions of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. I hope he doesn't read all those books here. Here you go. It's a microphone!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103446	A fellow chairman gave me a creamworth, but here he gave it to me. I picked up these books of mine like that of David Strbac Peter Kočić in "The Badger in front of the Court". Like he put a badger in a bag, so I carry the books with me. I need these books to continue what I said last time, to illustrate it. In fact, when I mentioned the American Jew Philip Cohen, he is particularly interesting because of several tables in this book of his. On 165 pages, if you have a book in your hands, look at it, and you'll see what I said last time. You will see the number of victims of World War II among Albanians, among Macedonians, Serbs, Croats and Montenegrins, and you will see that 7, 8 or 10 times fewer Albanians and Macedonians died. And you know why? Because the Macedonian Communist party was led by Methodius Šatorov, who merged it with the Communist Party of Bulgaria, and wise Bulgarians did not have an ambitious person like Josip Broz to challenge the war. Because World War II in our space is primarily his war, he fought for himself. He voted for Sofia, Lauren, what's the name of those Italian actresses who came to Brijuni, etc. 20,000 Bulgarians die, and a million and 20,000 Yugoslavs. Next, you'll look at a few more plates. When you see the Partisan movement, or the growth of the Partisan movement in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, and then you see a miracle unseen. In Serbia, the Serbs are three times more than in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and 13 times less in partisans than among Bosnian and Croatian Serbs. And you know why? Because there is no independent state in Serbia that should be destroyed. So, it's a whole other thing. This Second World War looked completely different than it showed us, as I told us last time those three Carluses show up. I must thank Mr. Tomislav Markink, for he gave me the book of the daily notes of Alexander Rankovic which confirms what I said about Broz as a warlord. But I find this book much more interesting. It's a book Mrs. Mira Shuvar wrote with Vladimir Velebit. Vladimir Velebit was a person of Broz's greatest trust. Please, if this book comes into your hands, look at it. I wrote down pages 305, 315, 330, 359, 262 for those who do not like to read all of them. I'm particularly interested in 362. Because of this SDP of yours. Well, my dear SDPs who don't hate me, so not every cashier Vlado Gotan. Smart in the head, mind your own business. Take care of who you choose to lead. So, Vladimir Velebit notes very nicely here that forty thousand captured Slovenians and Croats are in the Italian army. It was an Italian occupation zone, it was an Italian space before World War II. They're in the Italian army after Italy's capitulation not given by the English, they're not given by allies like this to join a folk-free fight so-called because they know who Broz is. Because they know Broz was in '43. He also negotiated with the Germans at the same time between the first month and the fourth month. Omi also did not, as I said on several occasions, want to inform Broz of what is being prepared, that Italy's capitulation is being prepared, so that he can pick up the weapons, etc. However, there is even more interesting thing here, which is why I heard from people who were close to the late Velebit, that he was not very sorry that he presented his speculation, he said, I believe that the winning side seemed different, that it was not Broz, but that it was a combination, Draža Mihajlović and Vladko Maček. Not Draža Mihajlović and Pavelic but Vladko Maček and Draža Mihajmovic, that Western allies would then give them Trieste because Yugoslavia was not abducted around Istria and Dalmatia with some kind of decent anti-fascist European force but with another force, the second axis of evil. If there is little time left for the wartime successes of Joseph Broz Tito, unfortunately, that I would not suffer his military ability in these 10 seconds, we will probably do so on Friday or another occasion. Thank you very much. E, e, e.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103447	And the books. We'll give this to pick up so you don't have to bend Mr. Boris Milosevic is now in front of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103528	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also contains one sentence that speaks of establishing the foundation of state sovereignty during World War II. It was expressed contrary to the declaration of the independent state of Croatia in the decisions of the National Liberation Council of Croatia in '43. I would like to point out this to remind you of the anniversary that is important for the Croatian Parliament and in a way that a year ago, I would like to warn of the round 80th anniversary of the first ZAVNOH session. Therefore, the constitutive session of the ZAVNOH session began on 13.6.'43. in Otočac, and 14.6. ended up on Plitvice Lakes. After that first session by '45. Three more sessions were held. All these sessions highlight certain ZAVNOH as the highest representative political body, as well as its national and democratic character. Its meetings and compositions were conditioned primarily by wartime circumstances. The composition was delegated, not elected councilmen. In doing so, all the council members who had been delegated, whose status of councilman was verified, were not present at these meetings. The main reason was primarily war events for which some councilmen failed to attend the session. The first session selected the ZAVNOH Executive Board of 11 members with poet Vladimir Nazor as president, and Vladimir Nazor himself was not at the first session. At that time he was in the area of Sutjeska trying to stay alive and break out of the enemy ring with the seventh Banian brigade. The Plitvice Resolution as well as a declaration to the peoples of Croatia were also adopted at the session. The second meeting in Plaška and the third session in Topuska is even more important, according to decisions taken from the decision by which Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Anectated parts of the Croatian coast, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia and all Adriatic islands join the mother country of Croatia to a voted resolution confirming the equality of Serbs in Croatia. As far as Serbs in Croatia are concerned, it is important to note that a Serbian club of ZAVNOH councilors was formed and this was proof of the full equality of Serbs in Croatia and guarantees and equality after World War II. At the fourth session held in July of '45. in Mark’s square ZAVNOH changed its name to the National Assembly of Croatia and all of this is enough to remember with dignity and mark the round anniversary, important precisely for the Croatian Parliament and its continuity of existence and action during World War II. Finally, I find it important to point out that we should support the municipality of Topusco in a project to rebuild the ZAVNOH building in Topusko that no longer exists. The building was shot down in '91. but it was a cultural monument of the zeroth category. It would preserve the memory of important decisions that were then made, and Topusko and the whole region would give new content and importance as they deserve. The Croatian Parliament owes it to ZAVNOH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103574	Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103575	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today, people with disabilities are unfortunately forced to share their sadly threatening family circumstances in the media to protect themselves and their families. Mothers and their children go public, exposing themselves, their family, their children to the public to demand the rights guaranteed by the constitution that we have committed to protecting as a social state. Last night, in the home of a person with a disability of former parliamentary representative Vesna Škulic, a threatening event took place for her life and health. We call on all competent services to do everything in this case, but to enable her and unfortunately other victims who are going through the same psychological support and protection that such situations no longer happen to anyone. Unfortunately, because of their vulnerability, people with disabilities are often victims of fraud, and the state has not created systematic support in order to make these situations as little as possible. Personal assistance is not systematically resolved, only 7,446 people with disabilities have some form of personal assistance, which is not enough if compared to at least 30,000 users. The service of the personal assistant of sign language interpreters and seeing escorts can be achieved by persons with the most severe disability older than 18 years with a potential and 3rd degree of functional impairment. Their role in the lives of people with disabilities is very important, and besides helping them carry out basic physical activities, maintaining hygiene, households, diets also help their mobility and involvement in community life, and all of this in four hours a day except on Sundays and holidays. Such a form of assistance is insufficient and rarely disabled persons have to engage additionally and pay the persons who help them at the end of those four or eight hours to whom they have the right to a personal assistant. Unfortunately, in addition to financial barriers for disabled persons in the organisation of additional services, there is also a question of trust and competence towards persons entering the private space of persons with disabilities. Personal assistance has been organised for more than 15 years through project activities, limited duration, subject to change, and all this leads to uncertainty that disrupts the psychophysical health condition of people with disabilities. According to a survey conducted by the Office of Advocates or Advocates for Persons with Disabilities of 21 associations, 14 associations indicate that the most common reason for the departure of a personal assistant in the fact that he has found another job and that personal assistants usually leave because of low or irregular pay. Persons with disabilities certainly want security regarding the continuity of the service once they have the right to a personal assistant because every change in them seems bad. The data also showed that at 11 associations, a personal assistant often or sometimes cancelled a service due to disagreements with a disabled person, and 12 associations are just at odds with a personal assistant the reason for cancelling a service by a disabled person. It recommends all scientific research into national and European documents independent lives of people with disabilities with community support. This way we call on the government and the competent Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy to propose a law on personal assistance as soon as possible to provide systematic and organised assistance to persons with disabilities in accordance with their individual needs. People with disabilities are left to themselves today, their lives depend exclusively on the individual resourcefulness of them and their family members, and that is something that is inadmissible and embarrassing for our country. It is necessary by law to lay down the conditions and supervision of personal assistants in order to protect the life and health of persons with disabilities and provide full protection for our most vulnerable members in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103576	You, too. Mr Emil Daus will present the views of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. With an increase in the number of members, the EU continuously enables investments in the construction of transport, necessary traffic in Member States and the integration of national traffic networks into a single trans-European network. So the main goal is to connect all regions to a single trans-European network and to connect the basic network of transport infrastructure with trans-European networks and corridors, an important prerequisite for the equal development of all EU members. And what is particularly important to us in Croatia is that Croatia is part of these networks so that it can apply to EU funds and if we want modern railways and fast trains, if we want more new roads and like we want modern and developed competitive ports, Croatia must be listed on the European transport map. As early as 30 years ago, the Union drew a European transport network. The last time the map worked in 2013 and then we were unable to participate and react in these processes, but now an opportunity is given, why? Because the revision of the TNT network is under way where Croatia has a great opportunity since it did not participate in the creation of the network last time. In fact, the review of the corridors is done every 7, 8 years, and if we fail to connect to the European corridors now, there is no European money for it either. And what we have defined in IDS as the most important transport priorities is certainly the accession of Rijeka to the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor and the integration of Trieste and Pula with the railway link. But I am sure there are other priorities at national level in maritime, rail and road transport. However, the sad fact that the Commission's new proposal last December has left us withheld from joining the European transport corridors, but it is not too late if the urgent joint approach is to address the problem. This autumn, which is very fast, during which month, traffic corridors are at the EU Parliament's session, and this is really the last chance to draw Croatian transport priorities into the European transport corridors, so I call on the government, the forwarding ministries, to urgently approach EU-level action at the EU Council and Parliament. You know, I suppose you know that you have in this support of the IDS, you have the support of our Euro-Adviser Walter Fleg, who is constantly pointing to this problem and the need and which, as the only Croatian MEP, is a member of the EP Transport Committee and is constantly working on this issue because this is not a question of party policies, this is a matter of national interest. This is a question of transport connectivity and economic competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia in the future. And as we talk about traffic corridors, what I must also point out is that it is urgent to build a continuation of the Istrian Ipsilon from Umag to a merger on Slovenian highways, Slovenian highways. Traffic plugs, reduced traffic safety, kilometre columns aren't what we want in 2022, or the years ahead. That is why I urge the government, the resolute ministries, to sit at a joint table with the new Slovenian government as soon as possible and to agree on a solution to this traffic problem. Currently one of the largest in terms of the frequency of transport, one of the largest in Croatia, i.e. traffic plugs created in the area. Since the new political leadership in Slovenia announces the removal of razor-lives at the border with Croatia, I begin to be optimistic about the importance of the transport link between the two countries, but also the entire EU continent and I repeat, once again I appeal to the government, foreign affairs, other resolution ministries to put this topic on the agenda as soon as possible. Finally, I expect the government to act urgently and to make much more efforts with the European Council and Parliament to save last year's failure to join Croatia to the European, especially the railway corridors, so that at the autumn session of the European Parliament, we will be accepted by new listed rail corridors that are of exceptional importance to the Republic of Croatia, if we do not see each other for seven, eight years with this topic on the next review of the corridor, and until then we remain at an average speed of 39km/h. In the end, to express myself vividly, it's the last time we catch the last train. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103703	You, too. Mr Silvano Hrelja will represent the views of HNS, HSS and independent representatives, HSU pardon and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103735	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is almost a year that I have signed a government support agreement with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and in the focus of this agreement it was to arrange family pensions in Croatia according to European legal rules or European experiences. Here last Thursday we presented to the public this model that we came up with after a lot of meetings, a lot of analysis of our pension system or the situation among the pensioners. Of course, as it always is, this announcement a year ago was welcomed with the skepticism, with accusations that it was a new delusion, but that the time was going for those who wanted such a change wanted and welcomed it, and the critics would now switch to something else, and that's something else why they didn't cover these categories or other categories, so we're not going to satisfy everything. But I will once again underline the line and tell me why it is such a strong motive for family pensions to be arranged in a European way. Because 213,255 family pensioners receive an average pension of 2.185 kuna or a share of 28,72% in average salary, or if they exclude contracts or pensions under international contracts of 180,962 users use 2,458 so much of their pension or 32.33% share. So, that height itself, regardless of being there for at least 35 years, and even up to 90 years of working together, these pensions are extremely, extremely low. So, we found a model that they're mostly senior pensioners that have been developed, but they don't have an internship to get an increase of 10% of their pensions, a coefficient from 0.70 to 0.77 that all those who husband and wife have been doing based on the whereabouts of the deceased partner that the overlive gets a certain material but not just material benefit, my people here are about emotion, that someone will after 10 years. After the death of his partner based on his internship to get him some memory and material help, therefore the size of this is not only financial nature but something that remains whatever the deceased partner is not there, keeps the family together and keeps all these positive vibrations inside, within the family. Of course, there will be critics, of course, that this is the procedure that needs to be done, but I think this is worth doing and deserves the great support of our citizens, our pensioners who are, and the pensioners who are in these situations. I daily meet with someone who asks me to calculate how much this supplement will be, we simplified the way, everyone will be able to understand that supplement, and here I have to say that everyone will be involved and those who are interested in it because the proposal to amend and supplement the law will be in consultation with the interested public from Friday, so from June 18, June this year about 15 days and that we have a plan, to do the first reading in HS, so we will discuss here with everyone where the power of all colleagues and colleagues will say your word for and your against this law until the summer break, or by July 15th, to decide on this law in the first, first reading. So I call on everyone interested to engage in counselling, in this counselling and to contribute to the improvement of our pensioners, and I expect that this law will be passed here with a large majority of votes in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u103736	You, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115585	so we go to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 265 The applicant is the Government under Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Before I give my word to the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica, we have requests for a break. The first in line is representative Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115586	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, the Criminal Procedure Act is one of the most important procedural laws. It has always changed precisely, it has changed in a way that has not sufficiently respected the recommendations of the profession and of those who work most in this law and most often apply it in practice. For years, no procedural weaknesses have been addressed, for example, by state attorneys and judges themselves. From the first to the second reading, some changes were made to which the judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia pointed, which was also their obligation. When the bill promoter goes deaf in this way to what comes as a recommendation, as a request, as a warning from a branch of the state government, we actually manage the state in a typical bureaucratic, unfortunately party, unilateral and very corrupt way. The second thing I have to say is that the introduction of some form of electronic recording of the debate is not a reform of the judiciary. It may be the only good thing about this bill because amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act cannot be done by a political party convicted of corruption and not by a political party that has the largest number of ministers caught in corruption affairs that are currently subject to various investigations. Don't laugh at your HDZ colleagues, this is a very embarrassing period in Croatian history that really shouldn't have happened, and I'm afraid that if you don't end up with it now, it could be repeated to the harm of all our citizens and states as such. You said amendments to the non-contained law should be submitted to the amendment, nor can they be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115587	The apartment is approved. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115588	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, I am asking for a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Social Democrats Club in order to point out once again that it is unacceptable for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to leave only 3 days for the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and that they are not allowed to discuss in their session on this law, in fact, those who are going to implement the law are not allowed to discuss it, to make constructive remarks and to make such remarks and to respect them. This is a second case now. We had a case with the Road Law on this road traffic and now the Criminal Procedure Act again. It seems to me that this government is becoming suicidal, that it is not, in fact, in the interest of a good administration that responds to the needs of users, and that is why we will ask as the Social Democrats Club that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure goes into third reading in order to finally discuss proposals that were not in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115589	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115590	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a recess regarding the Criminal Procedure Act and what happened between the two readings. Of course, two readings in the Croatian Parliament exist in order to conduct and introduce certain adjustments between the first and second readings. And none of it escapes. However, when these adjustments are so materially different from what was proposed by the basic proposal of the law. When they go so deeply into the way the judiciary works in criminal matters, then it's very strange and a man wonders why it happened. First of all, here I am talking about a proposal concerning the issue of abolishing or banning multiple times and returning multiple cases to re-determining lower courts. At first glance, such a provision can indeed speed up judicial action. But when? Then when it's ready. Then when it was previously spoken to judges who would apply it in practice. Then when did the education of those judges take place? Then when material and technical conditions were secured in the higher courts to carry out a large number of discussions they faced, none of this happened. This change was introduced into the law between two readings in just a few days, the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication. It is opposed not only by judges but also by a series of law professors with more or less of all universities in Croatia. Dear Minister, in our criminal justice system, there is much to change, but if that change is just going to be a dead letter on paper that won't work in practice, then the result will be even worse than this disaster we have now. And instead of speeding up the process, we'll just slow them down and secure that cases fall before the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115591	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. My colleague, Raukar Gamulin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115592	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club for 10 minutes to stress that it is absolutely unacceptable to insert between the two readings new important provisions that were not in the public debate, which were not on the eAdvise that had not passed the expert debate. As we've heard before, the judges of the constitutional court didn't have enough time to reach out and discuss it. All of this together is against the law. 11. The law on the right to access information, thus breaking the law, violates democratic procedures and is simply unacceptable that such an important law and such important new provisions in the Penal Code are passed over the knee beyond public debate. And for this reason, we ask that the Penal Code be returned to the government and that it goes into third reading for a simple reason, because if a judicial reform is really wanted and if a law is not to fall in a constitutional court like the law of 2008, then it is simply necessary because the procedure has been effectively violated, the law has been effectively broken and it should not be allowed to pass so important laws in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115593	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115594	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I am looking on behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ break also for 10 minutes, so I would first point out what we are saying all the time, at the end of last year in this HS we adopted a strategy to prevent corruption between 2021 and 2030. We know what the opposition then said was a dead letter on paper, but we see that since then a whole series of laws have been passed from the document I'm talking about, from the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on the State Attorney's Council, the Judicial Council, the announcement of the Law on Lobbying, today we have the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure. However, I will look back on one more thing, so I have the impression that the opposition does not read the documents, so obviously it has not read the report of the former Supreme Court President, who has listed this amendment in his report as important, so that it is being repainted from the civil proceedings, as essential for the acceleration and economics of the criminal proceedings itself. On the other hand, the SDP gentlemen were against the high criminal court, today we see that many, therefore, are the people of the profession who praise the need for such a court, both lawyers and parties who approach the court themselves, given that there has been an acceleration of the proceedings itself. Third thing I want to point out, who's telling us about corruption here? A colleague of Oreshkovic, and who should pass laws rather than the ruling majority? Well, not the party that won the election 0.016%, so not the party that has problems where you shouldn't have a party with your party member in the town of Split? And it might be better to write some letters there and warn them of some things that are happening to us than to keep up with us here and tell us that we are corrupt, that we are thieves, instead of supporting these solutions that are good, instead of supporting everything that was written in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, so you are dealing with these amendments that you have announced, but you also have a letter to the city of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115595	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115596	He's been injured. 238. I really don't know how this Split affair has anything to do with the Criminal Procedure Act, but good. A much bigger problem is in something else that you've told others what you've told your colleague, Habib, and that's the question of how to implement the reforms. And the best reform if it is not prepared, if it is brought over the knee, if it has not been notified and educated those who should apply it in practice will fail and that is what what we're telling you. [[Breaking President: Thank you, fellow coat of arms.]] This. take overnight and across the knee without preparation.../Speaker off./... [[Adversity President: A colleague of the coat of arms please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115597	A fellow coat of arms please this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you yourself are aware that you are being warned. My colleague Peovic is looking for a break as well, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115598	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF club for 10 minutes to warn that changes to such an important law really need to be in the hands of those who understand the importance of this important law. The very fact that you pushed this into a joint discussion with another point speaks of the seriousness that you are accessing to this law. And if the President of the Supreme Court welcomed this change, this is about you sending two days before the law in the procedure to the judges that bill in the second reading where you made a series of changes, and these changes that you introduced as a really very important change to prevent multiple return of proceedings from the second-degree court to the first-degree court, it was indeed necessary to discuss in the public debate. And it absolutely has nothing to do with Split, a fellow Habib, has nothing to do with anything but show your indifference and tendency to start non-essential topics, to deal with non-essential topics, to cook them yourself, and on the other hand, that you do not seriously change the laws in favour of the social majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115599	A fellow Mažar is in violation of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115600	Thank you very much, President. Here is a colleague, Peovic, who first said that the debate was united, that you were not united, that perhaps you were not, therefore, there are two points of the agenda, and regarding colleagues Habib and Split, I see that both you and Mr. Grbina are bothered, so the institutions will determine what is happening in Split, and if something is related to the Penal Code, then there are certain indications of criminal acts, I don't know what should be related to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115601	Please, colleagues and colleagues, don't be nervous and throw it out of the bench, this slowly, don't make it impossible for others to say what they think. Okay, are there any more requests for a break? No, then we'll start the debate, so we'll call on the Minister of Justice and the Administration of the Honored Ivan Malenica to explain the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115602	President-in-Office HS, respected MPs and respected MPs. You have two important and crucial procedural laws before you, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure, which will surely speed up and modernise judicial proceedings. The amendments and additions to the CAP that you are going to discuss here today will allow for a tone recording of all discussions and extend the possibility of holding a hearing at a distance, and an e-communication system will be introduced in the criminal branch of the trial. The final bill introduces one newspaper and an important newspaper, which is a ban on the double abolition of the first-degree ruling. With this amendment, the second-degree courts will return to the first stage with more precise instructions for the repeated procedure after the first-degree rulings have been abolished. If the second step, the second-degree court considers that the first-degree ruling should be abolished once the appeal has already been lifted and the case will no longer be returned, but the second-degree court will carry out the hearing and bring judgment. However, the courts of the second stage will not fully carry out the debate at the first stage, nor will they re-prove all evidence, but only the disputed facts will be determined on the grounds of appeal. The parties to the hearing will be able to present only new evidence and facts resulting from the statement of the first-degree ruling in the re-trial procedure or after which they have been informed. The second-degree court will remove significant infringements of the provisions of criminal proceedings and will make its own decision. As a newspaper, as a newspaper, I also pointed out the introduction of electronic communication in criminal proceedings, this will enable the sending of letters in electronic form, which will certainly shorten the time and costs of the proceedings, and make it easier for participants to communicate with the court. New legal amendments also create preconditions for mandatory tone recording of criminal proceedings. In discussions in which a certain audio recording will not be required, but the President of the Council will decide when there are reasonable reasons for this, and whenever a defendant does so. The full application of the tone recording of the hearing will certainly lead to speed up the process, easier monitoring of the debate and increasing the effectiveness of the judicial system, showing experience and other EU Member States that have just introduced this system. The amendments to the CAP also extend the possibility of using audio video links in a criminal procedure or the possibility of maintaining a remote hearing. In addition to the existing possibilities and use of the audio video link, the possibility of using an audio video link at the meetings of the accused council and at the preparatory hearings, as well as the possibility of the victim of each crime being examined through an audio video link, the President of the Council will decide on the circumstances of each individual case. With the proposed amendments, we will certainly take steps to make the proceedings faster and more effective, ban the double suspension of first-degree rulings is proposed in order to change the practice of double-returning the same case to retrial and ensure that criminal proceedings end within a reasonable period of time, of course, with respect to all the legality of the criminal proceedings and respect for the rights of the defendant. I believe that these proposed amendments not only to the CAP but also to the CAP will certainly lead to procedures, judicial proceedings, primarily here, in terms of criminal proceedings being faster and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115603	I thank the minister, we go with the replicas, the first is my colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115604	Dear Minister, here are two short questions, first of all, since the introduction of electronic correspondence, electronic correspondence, has been taken into account as to the greatest possible security since it is a highly delicate matter, and the second is your comment on what one of the leaders or leader of the opposition of Peja Grbin said earlier in terms of the relativisation of what is happening today, what is happening in Split these days, is paedophilia as a criminal offence, in fact, the subject of this law or should be a subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115605	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115606	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, the e-communication system already exists in the litigation process and in the proceedings before commercial courts, and there are a very large number of users who are using this possibility, and here I call on all citizens, but also on you Assembly representatives to actually engage through the e-communication system to see what the state has done over the past years, and what it is preparing now and through changes to the CAP is certainly the digitisation of the judiciary that we are actively working on and what we will be working on in the future. And when it comes to this other issue of yours, then surely the amendments to this CAP will contribute to the speedier and more efficient procedures, to resolve cases within a reasonable period, regardless of the criminality of the pedophile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115607	My colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115608	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, therefore even we who are not lawyers when you look at this first reading and this final proposal here have changes on five pages. So you've made obviously major structural changes compared to the first reading. And of course they're understandable objections and judges from the Supreme Court Penalty Department. They say the government systematically ignores the Supreme Court. Representatives of the academic community, so from law school, they also rightly resent because you didn't consult them. You claim that there was a working group in which there were representatives of the Supreme Court, the High Criminal Court, the Municipal Court, the County Court, representatives of the academic community. And who is your academic community if you haven't consulted anyone from these four law schools? Did you just to the Supreme Court two days to submit observations? You think that's right and that's correct? And who's in the task force anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115610	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the task force was working on making this law that was in the first reading and second reading. Compared to the first reading, only the ban on double suspension was introduced. I will now read to you members of the task force who worked on this text of the law both in the first and second readings. So, Professor Elizabeth Vicevic Karas, Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Professor Zoran Burić, Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Drazen Tripalo, Supreme Court. Turtle Bridge, State's Attorney's Office. Zeljko Horvatovic, High Criminal Court. Irena Kvaternik, Zagreb County Court. Marija Karačić Turkovic, Municipal Court in Zagreb. Krunoslav Horvat, Ministry of the Interior. Marijan Bitanga, Association of Croatian Judges. Ivica Marinac, Croatian Bar Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115611	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115612	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is an action plan for measures and reforms in different areas. In the component of public administration, the judiciary, state property contains proposals for projects and reforms that are important for the modernisation of the judiciary. Shortening the length of court proceedings. Informing the entire judicial system requires the introduction of e-communication in criminal proceedings, while in other courts this has already been introduced. Please, do you have any information in other European countries whether the introduction of e-communication into the CAP has led to a reduction in the duration of the proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115613	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115614	Thank you very much. Well, we certainly carried out a comparative analysis during and out of the National Resilience and Recovery Plan, and we saw that there are good examples, good practices in other EU Member States, where certainly the process of digitising the judiciary, digitising certain procedures within the judicial system, led to the acceleration of the procedures themselves. We also have positive examples from the Law on a litigation procedure where we already have more and more represented this digitisation of the e-communication system and will certainly make this system and this proposal, which is here today before you, and it concerns criminal proceedings, contributes to shorter criminal proceedings not only in terms of digital tools and e-communications, but also in this double suspension of decisions. And here I believe that this will reflect the length of criminal proceedings that we can keep track of, so here after the entry into force we'll follow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115615	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115616	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. I would refer to this management plan, so the CAP, the management of the debate. Yesterday on the Legislative Committee, there was a few words that this would lead to further red tape, in fact, the whole process. But I wouldn't really agree with that. I'd like to hear your opinion as well. I think actually from the experience I speak to the party in this way will be familiar with the entire document of activity and will eventually know when the verdict will actually be made and that is what the most often parties ask when we can expect some outcome of the procedure etc. So I commend this part. However, I would get a little bit further and return as much of that opposition to the city of Split, to your party colleague, Puljak. So it has something to do with this criminal, or criminal act. Any criminal act, criminal proceedings, or any criminal proceedings, begins with certain applications. This is where the applications are already announced. They're reporting, so they're announcing police reports, running some procedures. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the Law of Criminal Procedure. I don't know how you don't see the connection. So, colleagues Pulak, Ivošević Split and the CENTAR Party and the Criminal Procedure Act are absolutely the subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115617	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115618	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So certainly the management plan of the procedure is an important and important change that will certainly allow parties, but also judges to plan discussions, to plan individual procedures, or individual phases of the procedure. This is important for the party, it is important for party representatives, this predictability of the procedure itself that will certainly affect the reduction of the duration of court proceedings because it will be possible to provide for and will be obliged by the parties in advance to take specific actions and will not be able to, or will reduce the possibility of abuse of some procedural powers so that it is also a large and important newspaper that will certainly affect the shortening of the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115619	Comrade Vidovic-Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115620	You're advocating the use of modern technologies that you're supposed to prevent from hiring through a relationship, which is, of course, total demagogy and manipulation. Because the real situation in your ministry proves that you are not relying on modern technologies, but on old communist personnel, as is the case with your State Secretary Juro Martinovic present here, and your prison advisor, Juro Žulj, whom you hired and raised from retirement. From the people of your system, I am informed how this Jure Žulj provides a special privileged status for convicted bailiffs Josip Perkovic and Zdravko Mustac. They're telling me that this couple has a status as if they're in a hotel, not a prison. Are you aware that this is how you violate the law and embarrass Croatia, because the country that gives privileges to convicted murderers is not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115621	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115622	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I don't know what you're talking about the privilege and special status of those two convicted persons. They serve their sentence as well as any other person sentenced to a long-term prison sentence, so in the prison penitentiary of a closed type so that there are no benefits they do not have in relation to other prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115623	Comrade Mazhar, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115624	Thank you very much. So art. 238, no offense, so you're very informed because you're the minister. You know what happens in your vault, you don't need people to cheat and deceive and create some kind of... A united discussion of two points that are not at all compatible, pretending that the judiciary is fantastic in Croatia, which is a fundamental source problem in Croatian society, which is why we have a situation like we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You protect and give privileged status Convicted killers, and pre- [[Intruder: colleagues Vidović Kristo.]] In the Croatian public, you pretend you know nothing about it. [[Intruder: Please, colleagues Vidović Kristo.]] We have... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115625	My colleague Vidović Kristo, please, you are getting a warning! ... Please sit down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're getting a second warning now. You've received two warnings. Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115627	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor. Here we are today thanks to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026, another law related to further judicial reform and increasing the efficiency of the judicial system. Certainly, the number of newspapers he brings goes exactly that way, but also, we may not have heard that a good part of him is also related to the introduction of the directive from the EU, but what our citizens might be interested in is the newspaper about the victim himself. So a new definition of the victim is being introduced, a general catalogue is being introduced regarding the victims, but an individual assessment of the victim is being introduced. It will certainly increase and protect the victims themselves, and I believe that this will also improve the safety of every citizen who unfortunately comes into the victim's situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115628	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115629	Thank you very much. Well, certainly, the victim is important to us in criminal proceedings and, in fact, now and through this modern technology and videolins that we further explain through the Criminal Procedure Act, we have touched and touched the victims where we have allowed the victim to be heard through the videolink, so that there is no traumatic, to avoid this traumatic experience of hearings in front of the other party, and I would also point out the network of support for victims and witnesses who exist in the Ministry of Justice and Administration that actually provides in all parts of Croatia support, not only to victims, but also to witnesses of criminal acts, so that we are actively working on this, increasing the resources to strengthen that network and to form special departments in the county courts, so that we have also made a certain step here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115630	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115631	Thank you. Minister, you said we should speed up the process, of course, everyone agrees with that, but to say so cynically, the most we can do is speed up the court's proceedings by abolishing the judiciary, I guess that's not our goal, is it? If you came with a proposal that is important to the first reading and if the profession tells you that you should return means somewhere to start or put into the third reading law, put the meaning in the public and discuss it in the e- Consultation, then I do not understand why you reject it resolutely. Namely, the Supreme Court told you that this is the key, whether or not, the change that took place in the second reading of the work of a bad student who misrepresents it. Professor Zlata Djurdjevic, means the head of the Criminal-Process Law Department, warned that the profession was not included. Which is why you refuse to talk resolutely about this key change that can really have an impact. to the work of the courts? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115632	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115633	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, that's where you said, "Here, the Supreme Court has given an opinion." I would only refer to Art., page 147 and 148 of the Reports of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of the Court of Justice for 2020. It is, in fact, a report under discussion at the General Session of the Supreme Court, and the judges of the Supreme Court's Penalty Department are also debated, and it is clearly written there, to introduce the reputation of the ZPP ban on double suspension by the Court of Appeal. So it was 2020, the same judges who today, or last week, supported this report 2 years ago, 2020, and that your thesis that the profession was not included alone, it was denied, I stated that Professor Elizabeth Ivičević Karas, Professor Zoran Burić of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb were involved and you can contact them, supported this reform and this change, and contact And the judges of the district courts, and you see what they say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115634	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just a little while, colleague Kujundzic, colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115635	238. I have to warn you. So if that was the case, what you just said, then there's a serious question, why didn't you put it in the first reading, you understand? The whole procedure in which you add a very sensitive change in the second reading raises the question of your entire law. If you were convinced that the Supreme Court would support it, but they warn you that they are for the second-degree court to be defined differently, but not in the way you brought it in. So they're warning you that you should have done it another way. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115636	You're getting a warning, you didn't even bother to tell me that the injured Rules of Procedure had been broken, but you went straight into a replica, so... don't shake my hand! What kind of behavior is that? You deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning and then you make fun of each other, completely inappropriately and incorrectly. You get a warning. Now it's up to you, breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115637	Thank you very much, Your Honor. 238 Rules of Procedure. A colleague here is constantly objecting as the other opposition colleagues today that here in the second reading was proposed something that was not in the e-Advise procedure, I just remind you that in the mandate of the SDP Government here in the Assembly more than 50% of the proposals were adopted in an emergency procedure without any such e-Advisement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115638	Comrade Jelkovac, you're getting a warning, too, a replica. And I invite you all now, I'm going to start giving, just a minute, listen to me now, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Raukar-Gamulin, please. So I'm going to make warnings now like this through the intervention of the Rules of Procedure's injuries because it started to be misused visibly and replicated through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so to stop it, I'm going to make warnings. Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115639	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers in your opinion why did the Supreme Court propose to the Croatian Parliament that the government withdraw these amendments to the law? Why, in your opinion, was almost all or a large majority of the judges of the criminal department unanimously against this? Why didn't the public procurement take place? So these three questions and last ones. So, to the extent that criticism has been accepted that this law and its amendments would be better including 4 law schools, including a variety of different profiles of judges from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115640	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115641	Thank you very much. So I really don't know what the reasons were to call a general session and to react so critically to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the more he was involved in the drafting of this law and in the framework of the trialal working group. So, as I pointed out earlier, the issue of double suspension was discussed for a number of years, and in 2020 it was the Supreme Court's proposal, and it was discussed in 2019 when the Criminal Procedure Act was amended. We believe that it is an important change that will certainly contribute to the effectiveness, efficiency of the criminal proceedings and reduce or shorten the duration, because I often hear criticism here in the assembly that criminal proceedings last 10, 12 years, that decisions are multiplely abolished, return to a retrial, and this is precisely the change that will prevent this from happening. which will make the judgments better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115642	Comrade Jaksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115643	The Honorable Ministers tend to be more than clear and dared to say that the very tendency is commendable. I'm going to come out of the subject a little bit, but the question of all the questions is why we're doing it so quickly now because we have almost a month until the summer break, so there could be more time to go through the topics both with the Supreme Court and with the law schools and with the cathedrals. What is happening today in Croatia is that it must be brought now and be in the procedure within 8 days or 8 days after the announcement, and on the other hand we do not see the need to be urgent in the dispute that exists between your ministry and Minister Paladin on the implementation of investments that should be carried out in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Some concern Koprivnica, some concern Bjelovar where a decision should finally be made on how to conduct those investments in view of inflationary shocks. Why is this so urgent first, and this second thing that's much more lifelike at this point has fallen into another plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115644	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115645	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry that it turned out in public that there are some sort of dispute and conflict between the two ministries, between the two ministers, so it's a certain conclusion, a certain act that will certainly be passed with as short a time as possible, so I guess in the coming weeks. It is simply a matter of harmonising certain views, certain opinions, and I believe that we will have one quality conclusion that will solve all the problems that we have in practice, and of course that will be based on certain, certain principles, legal principles, and also on legal certainty. So I believe it will be in the coming weeks of government, that it will solve this situation. And when we talk about urgency and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure is foreseen in the draft legislative activities in the second quarter. So the government respected And here he is today in the assembly and I believe he will be adopted in the coming days. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115646	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115647	Thank you. Therefore, while these amendments do not provide for this, I believe that the rule should be introduced that the meetings of secondary councils should be recorded again on the model of some modern developed EU member states, i.e. the parties to be at least 8 days before holding a meeting of the council which decides on the complaint notified via the e-communication system that a session of the Board of Appeal is scheduled and that it should be possible to monitor the meetings of the Boards of Appeal through appropriate audio-visual devices, all for the purpose of transparency of proceedings and decision-making. What's your opinion on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115649	So certainly the introduction of sound recording and the introduction of modern technologies into the Criminal Procedure Act is aimed at actually strengthening the role of the party itself in criminal proceedings, of course and their representatives in these proceedings. It is certainly a matter of making it possible and facilitating access to court for the parties themselves and their representatives, and I believe that this model that we have proposed in the law in criminal proceedings is going in this direction to facilitate and make the whole process more transparent but also more open to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115650	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115651	In the provision of transitional and final provisions, you have put this one, one sentence, or article, that this law does not apply to all cases of that retrial, to all cases that have entered into, in fact, which lasts before the entry into force of that law. However, I believe that paragraph 2 should still be left with this proposed 484. For a reason, that's the essence of the story. If we now have a few dozen of these procedures, possibly more where we're going in a circle of the first degree, the appeal, and then the second degree goes back to the retrial, then the essence of the story is that, according to this accelerated procedure, the second degree brings this solution. Why are you doing this, why are you running away from it? Why, what's the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115652	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115653	Thank you very much. So it's a provision in the transitional and final provisions that we normally consider to be that the procedures that have been initiated under one regulation should be completed according to that regulation. That's because of legal certainty, but also predictability of the procedure itself so I don't think we should be doing any exceptions here right now, although I think this change will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the procedures themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115654	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115655	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you have today, on two occasions, cited Judge Drazen Tripal as a member of the group, so it is assumed that he agrees with this second reading, this proposal, however, in the media, I will now quote, Judge Drazen Tripal has detailed 4 fundamental objections to amendments, the proposal is based on the wrong assessment of the practice of second-degree courts, in the criminal proceedings the solutions from the litigation proceedings inapplicable to the criminal proceedings, the contested proposal would have a negative impact on the quality of the trial and court decisions, and also on the extension, and not on the shortening of the proceedings and does not comply with other provisions of the CAP, and would violate the entire system of legal medicines, which means that it is very easy to conclude that Judge Tripal was not familiar with this paper and the new provisions that you have entered into the second reading without your public debate, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115656	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115657	As I said, Judge Tripalo was a member of the task force and he was at a working group meeting when this change was being discussed, he has a position like he has, like the judges of the Supreme Court, but I say ask the judges of the municipal and county courts what they think about this reform and whether this reform and this change will speed up the proceedings and facilitate the procedure itself, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115658	My colleague, Nadj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115659	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, since we are going to digitize the whole process, the criminal procedure have you considered that there are also voice-to-text software on the market, so the one for transcription to get such, such a kind of software that the audio record would actually have its own in the file and that, that transcription so that people who want to look at the file can immediately see what it is about, and not listen to audio footage, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115660	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115661	Thank you very much. So the Speech to Text system exists already in Croatian courts and state attorneys, and it serves as an auxiliary tool to judges and state lawyers and advisers, so here it is about a particular technology that is not connected and cannot be related to that system, so as I have said, we have also carried out a comparative analysis and we have actually found a model that, a tone recording model as applicable in other EU Member States and, in fact, according to that model, we have designed this, these amendments of the CAP, but the Speech to Text system that has been used for several years will continue to be present and will be, it will serve as an auxiliary tool for state lawyers and judges to write certain decisions or write certain acts or notes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115662	Here you go, fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115663	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here I commend every change that comes to any ministry, especially when it comes to high-tech technology. I've talked to several law firms who don't have too many grudges about the CAP, apropo this Specch to Text even you can get the most ordinary file that the type in the MP3 format to throw on... Croatia will immediately drop that text. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are other problems of technological nature that are related to the e-script and the whole system, whether or not that part will be accelerated because people who are formally said, also complained that sometimes even the threads don't save those files because they're afraid that the whole system won't die in a gentleman then exactly what happened at the trial, so here's hope that this part will speed up too. I'm also interested in here and a brief comment given the ranking scale is about the judiciary within Croatia, we're here somewhere in the middle with African states, so I'm interested... That things are gonna get better with this, too. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115664	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115665	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for asking, so certainly modern technology is a big step. Of course, when we talk about the e-script system, we have had several upgrades to that system that creates certain problems in the use of the system itself, but through the NPOO it is intended as one of the investments, as one of the projects of the reconstruction of the entire e-script system to make it more operational, stable and secure, so we will implement it in the next period. Certainly, a major step in the judiciary has been made in the field of digitisation, and I believe that digitalisation, including today's debate, will make it easier for the CAP today's proposal to act only, but also to speed up procedures, and above all I mean here and the tone recording, so here I believe that this will also result in a shift on certain scales, but also changes in the perception of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115666	Thank you. My colleagues, Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115667	Ministers, ministers, ministers, someone who would like to implement judicial reform, lead a team in it, must have knowledge, experience and skills, must be good at knowing the judiciary, approximately as good as the Maverick of Top Gun when flying, and you're not even for apprentices. In your official résumé there are more information about your party duties than about your professional career, and that professional career is just an academic nature, you do not have one single day of experience, implementing experience in the courtroom. So on the one hand, I'm not surprised that you're holding on to electronic communications as a drunk panel so that you don't dare go out of the way of thinking procedurally in that part, and I'm more concerned about that, and I think that this intervention is a dangerous counter-structure, so pull this proposal and let the procedural laws be written by those who know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115668	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Mazhar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115669	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. A colleague of Oreshkovic has been injured by an article. The 238th insults both the minister and the minister, and all of us regarding what she said, as well as the way the minister does shows not only everything that has been brought back a year and a half about judicial reform and legislation, but also about the EU and the Doing Business Board where Croatia is progressing, and about your expertise all the courts have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115670	A fellow Mazhar warning. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115671	Thank you very much. Art. 238, Col. Oreshkovic, of course, insulted the minister here at a personal level instead of offending those jerks of hers as she called them down in that Split no, yesterday she held the press and said it was inconclusive and irresponsible jerks and that they were causing damage to her that she was hanging out with them, no, but she would continue to hang out and offer them to Split in the election. And instead of giving them lessons, maybe she should go to some workshop too, let's say she takes off her shame and then learn something and don't talk to the president like this in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115672	Comrade Boric, you also get a warning, this was a replica. Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115673	Thank you, Your Honor. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238 Rules of Procedure. Namely, a colleague insults us here at the personal level of the minister, insults all of us, insults and common sense. So the story of a colleague whose decisions, while she was president of the commission, fall down like ribbons. You can get away with the reasons, but that's not the case. If you were talking about expertise so professionally, then you wouldn't need the help of the state when I don't know, issuing some accounts or some of the parties you had, for example, Janaf. If you're so good, you actually respect the minister, he's not good. If you were so professional, then it would be different and decisions would go through and be confirmed. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Habian.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115674	Thank you, fellow Habib, a reminder to you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115675	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure, 238 Art., fellow Mazhar, you are calling on the Doing Business Board is really something you should stop doing. You know what Macedonia is on the Doing Business Board? High 8th place. 50% of Macedonia's population has no heat. Don't shower us with those suggestions to be high on the Doing business chart while our people starve.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115676	My colleague Peovic, second warning. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115677	Of course, 238. A colleague of Oreskovic said yesterday, let us not lie, minors, or girls of 17 years of age, enter intimate relations. That's what you're doing, you're trying to justify your colleague from your party Ivosevic, and your CV is the only destruction of Tomislav Karamark and thanks to that you came to HS, and you used your previous position in, I'll say, an illegal way and it might be within this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115678	A colleague, Zekanovic, also a reminder. Now Minister Malenica will respond to MPs, MPs, representatives of Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115679	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I haven't watched your resume, I haven't, I don't know if you're competent to discuss criminal proceedings and the CAP, but I do know that you're competent to discuss the Law on Administrative Disputes, so here we may as well put you in a task force for the ZUS, since your decisions as chairman of the Committee have been regularly dropped in administrative courts and the High Court of Justice, so I'm sure you have that competence for administrative disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115680	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115681	He's been injured. 238, direct insult and humiliation. Dear Minister, first of all, change the facts. The rulings of the First Professional Assembly of the Commission have been consistently confirmed for 6 years by the first-degree administrative courts and also by the High Administrative Court. One was brought down and not by Tomislav Karamark, but by your Prime Minister whose malfeasances and conflicts of interest, unfortunately remained hidden under the table. It was the intensity of your strategy to combat corruption! [[Agreement: colleagues Oreshković, you get...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115682	Comrade Oreshkovic, you are being warned. This was also a replica that has now caused new injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Habian, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115683	Thank you. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, among other things, has now proved that she really doesn't know the law. So, fellow Members, the first time he was invited to appeal to an art class. 5 was a high, or administrative court after that, the High Administrative Court said you were wrong. That was the first time, don't say that there was a practice from before because no one had previously called in their complaint of injury. 5. Therefore, don't deceive the public or I think you do know it, but you don't want to admit it here because you... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115684	A fellow Habiban, a second warning, too. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115685	Thank you very much. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, fellow Members, you have just shown that you do not know how to accept facts, nor do you accept responsibility and guilt. We could go to some seminar about it, and you also showed double standards in evaluation and evaluation because you're defending your punks from Split and your place to condemn it, and here you're giving us all moral lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115686	My colleague Jelkovac, you've received a second warning. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115687	Art. 238. counterpart Oreskovic insists on proving that the courts did not come to a good conclusion when she rightly ruled. Of course she didn't care what she was doing then because she was doing politically what she was told to do and today she's here in the Parliament. She took advantage of that function and it is the biggest shame of Croatian politics. That someone who's been on this, in that body, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, take advantage of objects, talk about these items regularly here in the assembly and make them a political story and thus pass into politics. This must no longer happen in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115688	Comrade Boric, it was a replica, and this is also another reminder to you. Now we're going back to the replicas. Comrade Pavić, here you go. It's the last replica we have on the minister's presentation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115689	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd actually like an explanation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 13 is specified exactly how the minutes should appear and it says that the statements of the witnesses or the statements of the parties and the legal representatives will be a contribution to the recording of the tone, so the explicits indicate what the minutes should look like. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down After that, in Art. 110 says the Law is in effect on the 8th day since its publication in the National Journal. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt This is the part that's attached to the records, it's in effect, but there are no regulations. How will the courts work? What are those records going to look like? We have one distraction in time. I think it needs to be changed and adjusted, given that simple time doesn't fit. If the log is prescribed, it must look true how you told us, and that's impossible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Do it because we don't have technical conditions. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115690	Let's go with the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115691	Thank you very much. So, of course, this change in tone recording will not be immediate until the tone is obtained, until technical equipment is obtained and all conditions for this to work are met. It is certainly the regulation of a sublaw that will define the key things that relate to the details of the recording itself and the records that come out of it, so here I see no problem, if you think there was or there is some reasoning or diversity I always suggest that you submit the amendment. ... We apologize and accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee as a whole. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115692	I thank the minister. Now I'm gonna call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the esteemed colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115693	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers. This amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is completely unprepared, without a public debate, a structural change in the judiciary that will lead to a mass of proceedings before the constitutional court and the Sanader case which falls before the constitutional court to the satisfaction of criminals. If it wasn't all so black in this vast blackness, we'd immediately be constructive to point out that it's good to have a tone recording of the debate in order to modernise the process, I just don't know why it takes the government a year and a half to introduce it. Ensuring technical conditions and training does not take so long because the vast majority of courts already have similar equipment as part of the program spech to text as you yourself said. Everything else in the law is a terrible way of dealing with the government in the important things of this state, all on the nose without the participation of the profession and hidden from the public, that judgments cannot be abolished twice as proposed in the law, although in some theory it cannot be carried out in such an unprofessional way, without all mechanisms for effective procedure and the protection of the human rights of all participants in the process. It is evident that this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act will fall in a constitutional court because too much damage to fundamental human rights is said by all experts in public, so it is justified to ask whether it is in the background of exactly the intention of Sanader's ruling that all judgments in the Constitutional Court are finally being brought to ruin. So then I ask the right question again, who does this bill suit? Criminals, so today they rub hands of pleasure. The Supreme Court has noted that it is one of the most important laws that is intruding into fundamental human rights that we now see the fate of the same in the constitutional court and the judgments to be passed under such a law. The Supreme Court has proposed to the HS that the government be given back the final proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Procedure Act because significant structural changes require public and professional debate to lead to better solutions, which has not been made. The government and the ministry know by whom they have not obeyed the profession but are pushing their own, and the consequences will be seen when the law comes into force. And yet I don't know which way the government will defend, to justify that it doesn't affect the judiciary. How does it not affect? Well, it affects just like this with bad legal proposals. In addition to this government and the shock and infidelity among the legal profession, because the Law on Areas and Court Headquarterss in nature destroyed the specialisation of county courts that have been built for years, which has finally resulted in more professional and faster settlement of cases and then, with the normal impression that the government's task, the ministry is to destroy all the progress that has been painfully created for years in the judicial system. The text of this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is not even close to that of the first reading, there has been no expert debate, there has been no general debate, it has not been enabled in the way it should have been. I quote "The proposed text of the final proposal contains a significant structural change in the conduct of the second-degree courts which was not provided for in the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was discussed in the first reading by HS following which this amendment was not the subject of either general or expert debate" the Supreme Court, which delivered to the Assembly the conclusions of last week's session of the Criminal Section. It's interesting that everyone is literally, but without exception, all the judges of the Penal Code, and it's a law that defines criminal proceedings. All judges of the Supreme Court’s Penalty Department have unanimously assessed that the proposed amendments would not contribute to the swift completion of criminal proceedings and would prejudice the fairness of the criminal proceedings as a whole. The president of the Supreme Court Penalty Department at the session we know how he characterised these changes, the work of a poor student, a handsome association that resembles poor or prescribed works by individual judges of the constitutional court, former candidates for mayor of Split, school repeaters of Defence Minister Marija Banozic's success, etc., such a bad law will have consequences that more people will seek their rights in the constitutional court. All four Croatian law schools have been ignored during writing a final bill, which is not surprising when you look at the trend for the past few years. The profession wasn't about this law. It was about someone's will. I'm honestly surprised by the several ministers that you took those steps, and you're coming from the university. If that's how college is appreciated, the Supreme Court, the professional public, then more courts and colleges don't even need it, so maybe it's best to take it, maybe we need regular bus lines for some cities in the nearby neighborhood that just publish diplomas. I quote, the Criminal Procedure Act is an organic law that must be passed through two readings, a debate that includes both professional and general public. When such a structural change is introduced, it cannot be in the second reading without a public debate, without consulting the profession, without e-consultation in the sense that the change would take effect eight days after it was published in the National Journal. These are the words of the professor of law school and there's nothing to add for them. Judges have been publicly warning for several years that the government has violated the Supreme Court, the academic community, the profession that is at the shame of our country. The Ministry of Justice and the administration of severe objections to the Supreme Court say that in the process of drafting a legal proposal, the ministry formed a working group whose work was attended by experts in criminal justice areas, the High Court representative, the High Criminal Court, courts, etc. However, the ministry has never said how many judges' proposals were accepted in the draft of this amendment to the law, and we know that they are not. And that's this debate over the past half-hour with quotes of judges you've shown yourself. That they were rebuffed in order. You know that in the government, in the ministry, and that's why you keep quiet, and that's why you didn't want a public debate about the final bill. It's under the table because in a public and professional debate, an illogical approach this government shows in every field would be revealed. And when it comes to referendums, and when it comes to laws, and when it comes to government promises of various honey measures that will make Croatia better, and here citizens are as stupid as they don't see it going for the better. Whenever the judiciary is shown to be ineffective, Pilateski will wash his hands, he will tell me not to interfere with the judiciary, and the fact that they passed these laws will not, of course, stand out wisely, hide, ignore, just as the waist is ignored. I ask you to consider what you have been told persistently for half now, change the approach, withdraw the proposal, turn the public on, include the professional public, conduct a general and professional debate, bring the law right that will really make our judiciary more effective, better and fairer. This isn't the way. Use the time you've been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115694	Second debate of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and esteemed counterpart Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115695	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers, secretaries, the Croatian public, we have had the opportunity to hear in the introduction everything the opposition thinks about this amendment proposal and, to the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Criminal Procedure one of the fundamental procedural laws of the repressive, the bodies of the repressive authorities in the persecution of people who have violated criminal law or committed various criminal acts and other, other criminal acts. Of course, this law is one of the most important because it is the deepest in the procedure it benefits from, it goes deeper and deeper into the rights and freedoms of the people to whom it applies, which are potentially innocent of the constitutional category of presumption of innocence, and therefore the Croatian public and professional are also particularly interested in any influence of the executive authority, the legislative authorities in the provisions of such legislation, which, as far as argumentation, is more subtle and professional. And these are the ninth amendments to the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act, which would actually be the very fact itself, that we are matured to adopt a consolidated text parallelly, on which we should work in parallel with this so-called information communication reform of criminal law. It is essentially commendable to the executive authority's initiative that the money it has provided through this National Recovery Plan and received to the greatest extent from the EU, in the time period of 2021-2026, which money has been provided in these billions of kunas precisely for, for the purposes of modernising and modernising the functioning of the Croatian judiciary, especially courts, state lawyers. And that's good, so it's a relatively painless way for us as a Croatian society to get to a higher level of trial, which should ensure efficiency and accelerated, accelerated procedures, but there are certain doubts indeed between that first reading and this you put certain provisions that cause doubts and recommendations in the most professional public, among the most professional institutions dealing with legal science from law school to the Supreme Court. I think that by respecting the President of the Supreme Court's opinion that we must not remain deaf to it when a whole department, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's Penalty Department is negatively expressed about it then, regardless of how we have a member of that task force, then it deserves a careful, careful hearing of these arguments and debates, a dialogue on how to get out of this crisis in which and how to stop the negative processes possible before constitutional courts or before the competent courts in the Republic, that I am not talking about any potential European Court of Human Rights lawsuits. It is necessary and certainly welcome and must be listened to by one who "colluvially produces" this right daily, judges of municipal and county courts and surely their opinion, they know this life legally what the biggest problem is. However, we think that you need to invest additional energy to stop this proposal, to carry out these additional expert discussions, we have time to do so because you yourself have limited the most important part of that mini reform to actually delay until 1.10/2024, means the part that says that public debate is going to be recorded, that audio videos will be recorded, and then copy the transcription as your colleague said, that all of which means for the next two over two years. So let's see in these few in the next couple of weeks and weeks and months what can be done here. It's really amazing if we're already making a law that wants to prevent the double abolition of first-degree judgments by second-degree appeals, why don't we even understand it, that article. The 484a you propose in section 2 clearly states if this reversible one bewitched cycle of termination, trial, etc. occurs. from which there is no end and end, why don't we apply it to speed up, to see these effects as soon as the matter is ready for the second-degree courts to immediately initiate such reformed actions in all the categories they said there listening to the profession. Let the Supreme Judges say what else to do. You put here a strong inquisition element for the judges of second-degree courts where you said if the parties and the state prosecutors or I don't know the damage, the prosecutor, etc. does not contribute to the new facts, new evidence, or this procedure has long been completed with preparatory hearings that the court itself may seek this second-degree evidence if it deems it necessary. It's a powerful tool and it certainly causes a suspicious nature of many people who otherwise mix us with the type of criminal procedure defined long ago puts us in another role. So as a club we will remain abstention here, but we suggest that you really withdraw this proposal as you withdrew the proposal, as the government has withdrawn the proposal recently of the Road Safety Act when both professional public and parliamentary representatives and many citizens of the entire category of people, craftsmen many who participate daily professionally in road traffic have said that the bill is not good enough, that it is not compatible with the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. So we think there's no reason, and it's no shame that you're taking it back to a certain kind of work, thinking, so we can't ignore the opinion of the Supreme Court and the president himself and the criminal department. I would never dare. And law schools, so let's hear what this scientific community of ours is trying to say, so put it in front of us Parliamentarians, and then if we need you in executive power, you can't come to a final solution, we'll come to a solution, and then it'll be our responsibility as fundamentally as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115696	The third debate of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115697	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments introduce a newspaper that will modernise the criminal proceedings, speed up and provide instruments for more effective criminal participation all with the aim of reducing the length of the proceedings. This amendment therefore proposes the introduction of e-Communication, the extension of the use of audio recording discussions as well as the mandatory tone recording of discussions. However, by showing professors with all four Croatian law schools believe that the proposed text of the final bill contains a significant structural change to the behaviour of secondary courts which was not foreseen in the text of the law proposal in the first reading, which means that this amendment was neither the subject nor the expert debate, so we can ask ourselves for a reason who it was. The Law on Criminal Procedures is also an organic law that must pass two readings, a debate must be held that includes all professional and general public. It is unacceptable to introduce such an amendment that the second reading is without a public debate, without consulting the profession and without e-consultation. Today, with Croatia, the situation in the judiciary has never been worse. Citizens feel the injustice at every turn, and the greatest injustice they feel is when they see that the laws in this country are not equal for everyone, that they are passed beyond the profession, and on the other hand, citizens have long-standing court proceedings even for a few decades which is absurd because we belong to countries with the highest number of judges per hundred thousand inhabitants. I cannot mention the corruption considered widespread in the public sector in Croatia and according to Transparency International data on the corruption perception scale for the last three years we have been sinking among all the more corrupt countries in the world. A series of corruption scandals are not only about human character weaknesses and the burden of inherited habits but also about proof that it is about a systematic phenomenon that flows over to all spheres of society, and the basis that there is no responsibility of the government at all levels. In Croatia, everything is so ruined including the judiciary that we need a new start, and therefore we propose a root reform of the judiciary as a basic prerequisite for our country's development, an effective judiciary that must be the basis for the rule of law and a bearer of the fight against corruption. Our key objective should be to restore citizens' trust in the independence of the judiciary and raise the effectiveness of the entire judicial system. With a change like this, it doesn't seem. Contrary to claims that resolving cases is speeding up, and in reality the length of the court proceedings in matters of interest to the public remains excessive. There are no reliable indicators to point out that sufficient shift has been made towards shortening the length of procedures that would meet the legitimate expectations of citizens. Because if we look at a bill like this that's inquisitored against the defendant, because an inquisitor's debate is proposed that only a court can carry out evidence while the defendant's rights of defence are lifted by a first-degree court error. This was not at all a matter of defence rights but of public perception to speed up the procedure by violating the fundamental constitutional rights of the defendant. Therefore, this is not a cosmetic change as it is presented by the ruling, because this is not a change for better but a demeaning institution of the Supreme Court, but also for the entire academic community. Given the fact that this is already the ninth change in sequence with a whole series of objections to this bill and if we want to have an orderly and efficient judiciary for the sake of the socialist club's legal certainty, the Social Democrats insist that that law goes into third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115698	As fourth on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Habib, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115699	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to admit that I'm a little sorry that there are so few MPs and MPs in this House, especially because you wanted an individual debate. I expected unlike the first reading when we were finished if I wasn't wrong in half one and with the Law on Prosecution and with the Law on Criminal Procedure, that today there would be a large number of reported especially by the opposition, however this is not the case. I won't repeat much these three amendments that actually concern the introduction of new telecommunications instruments, i.e. tools in the criminal proceedings itself. That's what we actually said during the first reading. I'm actually going to look back at this part that I see today is the most interesting part of the opposition. First, I'm going to rely on my colleague Nikolic if this isn't a cosmetic change. Of course it's not a cosmetic change, this is all we've announced yet what the government is and what the Ministry of Justice and Administration has announced, so also through the document of the Anti-Corruption Strategy '21/2030. where the whole series is listed, hence the bill which will be in the parliamentary procedure which I have already listed in the session, so from the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, from the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the Lawyery Council, in the announcement of the Law on Lobbying, now the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, etc. Therefore, it merely points to the right will of this ministry and of this government in fact to take action and to implement the real reform of the judiciary. So, of course, it's not about cosmetic change. The second thing is, to me, it's still unclear actually that you're so upset in Article 484a, so in this new article, except that it's obvious to you today that the only thing you can point out here is why you're actually against this bill. While, on the other hand, I don't see your motive for why you're against it, the other I don't see what you're offering and what's bothering you. So it's something that will definitely speed up the criminal procedure itself, make it more effective. What may be most interesting if you look at this final bill proposal, together with its contributions, is this article 484, which speaks of the ban on double suspension of the first-degree verdict, says that counterpart Bencic was one of those who mentioned it during the first reading as a need to enter into the legislative proposal, so until the second reading. So this is completely unclear to me what you're saying today except that you actually want to re-emphasise yourself again, to get some political points, but unfortunately it hasn't worked out for you so far. So, in my report, the Supreme Court also said this in part, so in 2020, it would be very clear that it would be good to set up a model for a litigation procedure where there is already, hence the ban on double suspension of first-degree rulings and the criminal proceedings. And now we have that in this proposal during the second reading. So it's incorrect that the Supreme Court is against the Priory. Second, you're saying the waist's against it. Now, I don't get it. So the minister made it very clear who makes everything a working group. If you heard it, I hope you heard who did it all, then you can't argue that it's not people who are definitely out of the profession. If you want the Department of Law in the city of Zagreb, it is not just one professor, i.e. the Head of the Department of Law, which you have been very attached to and which is obviously the only one that is clearly relevant to you. I see the profession as a broader concept where there are really many people. Of course it's impossible to reach an agreement, but you can't argue, you can't say that the whole profession is against this law. I really hope that by the end of this debate today in the second reading, therefore the Law on Criminal Procedure will hear some of your suggestions in which you would do so myself criminally, more effectively, because we know that every time we talk about a subject that can be associated with the judiciary, then very often from your lines of opposition we hear the proceedings go on for a long time, that actually the dispute of justice is no justice, and now that at last with these other communication technology solutions that are offered and introduced into the Criminal Procedure Act we have another such I would say actually revolutionary change you are against because the profession is allegedly against. So, first of all, that's not true, nor is it true that the Supreme Court is against it, and it also says in the 2020 report, so I look forward to this debate that you wanted to be individual to hear what your proposals are, to discuss them. We haven't heard from them by now on behalf of these three clubs that were before me. Therefore, given what I said and what I said during the first reading regarding these three elements that we are introducing in criminal proceedings, taking into account this new solution in Article 484. Therefore, the ban on the double abolition of first-degree rulings will support this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115700	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Raukar Gamulin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115701	Thank you. Article 238, insult of parliamentary representatives, and I would say to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is not the judges of the Constitutional Court that are not against this proposal that is simply false. And to call on 2020 when, now a few days ago, it came out in public, it was sent to the Assembly, a single, unanimous judge of the Supreme Court Penitentiary Department. They're against it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115702	Comrade Gamulin, you're getting a warning. It's clear that this was a replica. Let's go for the fifth debate, Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia, Honorary colleague Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115703	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore with the latest amendments and additions from 2019, the domestic criminal code of procedure was in line with Directive 2106/1919 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on legal assistance for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and for wanted persons in the process on the basis of a European arrest warrant. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act proposes the ninth amendments and additions to the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act. The reason given to us is the implementation of a criminal procedure reform in terms of expanding the use of information communication technologies in criminal proceedings, by introducing e-communication, by extending the use of tone recording to all discussions in criminal proceedings and by extending the possibility of using an audio-video link. For the purpose of further informing the judicial system, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration has developed an e-communication service that allows users to communicate electronically with courts. E-communication has already been applied to all commercial courts, namely administrative courts, municipal and county courts, litigation proceedings and the High Commercial Court of the Republic of Croatia. Information of the entire judicial system requires the introduction of e-communication and criminal proceedings for all the benefits that electronic communication of the participants will have in relation to the speed and economy of the procedure itself. The latest amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force on 1 January 2020 for the purpose of facilitating the introduction of e-communication in criminal proceedings are prescribed to sign the judgment only by the President of the Council, no longer by the notary, and given the guaranteed certificates for digital signing in relation to judges and judicial advisers and the preparation of courts for electronic operations. By enabling the introduction of e-communication into criminal proceedings, it also required further intervention in the legal provisions themselves, in those which regulate the way in which the submissions and delivery are submitted, as well as the related provisions. The introduction of e-communication involves sending submissions through the information system to the body conducting the procedure. Therefore, it may be the State Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice and the delivery of a letter and decision by the court to other participants in criminal proceedings, so to parties, witnesses, witches, interpreters. Following that e-communication, the criminal proceedings will be binding on the state authorities or the State Attorney's Office, lawyers, court experts, court interpreters and legal persons when they are sent, when they send submissions and contributions to the court itself. The defendant, i.e. private prosecutor, damages as prosecutor and other natural persons involved, for example, are not witnesses of e-communication bonds and may be involved in the cases of the information system if he agrees to do so during the procedure itself. If they do not agree to include in the e-communication information system, they send submissions as much as they do before. The amendments and additions made to the 2008 CAP, i.e. those amendments, which took place in 2017, amended Articles 409 and 410 and 411 and thus extended the possibility of recording discussions with audio or audio-video recording devices. In view of the implementation of the pilot of the IPA project in the project, called Strengthening the efficiency of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, it has shown that an audio recording of the debate would speed up its course and allow judges not only to manage the debate more easily but also to monitor the testimony of the defendants, witnesses and witches because their content would not be entered in the discussion report. This should also lead to the acceleration of criminal proceedings as a whole, and contribute to the greater effectiveness of the judicial system in support of which other EU Member States have concluded and experience. However, the possibility in question under the applicable 2008 law has not been brought to life in practice for 2 reasons. For some of these laws, the reasons we have also warned here in the assembly, but we have often been denied, here is one of these is that not all courts are technically equipped to record discussions. The second reason is that it is required and has to be approved by the President of the Council within 5 working days, the latter has in fact made it significantly more difficult to use audio recording discussions because although the debate that was recorded would have been shorter than the prescribed copy of the video would have meant much more work and resources after the debate itself. According to the 2008 CAP provisions, information communication technology in criminal proceedings is used very widely when examining certain participants in different stages of criminal proceedings, and although the 2008 CAP does not foresee the possibility of holding a hearing before a first-degree court via video or audio video devices is often used in other stages of criminal proceedings, for example, by means of audio video links, children from victims of criminal offences, and certain other categories of victims, such as the endangered witness, the expert and the like, may be examined. Furthermore, by means of an audio video device, the defendant may participate in a decision-making hearing on an investigative prison, at a hearing for carrying out the evidence shop, only a proof hearing can be held, some evidence actions carried out and others. The presence of parties at the second-degree court meeting may also be ensured with the help of audio video devices. This final proposal further extends the use of audio video link in criminal proceedings in such a way as to give the possibility to ensure the presence of the parties at the meeting of the accused council and at the preparatory hearing with the help of the audio video link, only the possibility of being used by the President of the Council, depending therefore on the specific circumstances of each individual case being considered. So I would repeat my proposal, I see my colleague, Habian, has left, he argued that we have not made any proposals, and I think that this proposal is very important, and I am actually sorry that we did not take advantage of this opportunity and introduced in the appeal procedure the rule that the meetings of the second-degree councils are being recorded or that the parties should be at least 8 days before the meeting of the councils deciding on the complaint was notified through the e-communication system that the session of the Board of Appeal has been scheduled and that, in this way, we are allowed to actually follow the meetings of the Boards of Appeal through appropriate audio visual devices, and all for the purpose of course of transparency of procedures and of decision that we are greatly lacking. It is also necessary to equate the use of audio visual devices because the courts are currently using publicly available free services to maintain a remote handle, so there is no uniformity. The decision on the appeal depends mostly on the presentation of the rapporteur’s own judge on the case, and by direct participation by audio visual devices at the meetings of the Board of Appeals, it is possible to achieve the principle of public trial and in the appeal procedure, and, where appropriate, direct participation of the parties in the appeal procedure if, of course, it is found necessary to request clarification of certain parts of the appeal itself. I also remind myself, today a lot has been said about the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, so between the two readings if certain major changes occur it is necessary to repeat the minimum e-consultation procedure, it did not happen here. We also discussed the Law on Electronic Communications yesterday where we also had a violation of the prescribed procedures, so we lacked a financial report, and from the very proposal of the law it was clear that there was a great deal of financial impact on the amendments of the Law on Electronic Communications itself, so what to say, so the procedure is increasingly being violated here and unfortunately by the ruling ones themselves. I also add to this the attempt to merge these two bill proposals that regulate two completely different substances, I can only conclude that it is good that the opposition is loud, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115704	6th debate Green-left bloc representatives club and respected colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115705	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman and President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers and Associates. We are therefore facing the 9th amendment of the CAP after the adoption of 2008 and should first of all be asked why no new law has been adopted if the necessary judicial reform is indeed to be implemented. The ruling HDZ specifically then Minister Bosnjak announced this in early 2019, but nothing happened until today, and these new changes, as we can see, have once again raised experts to the feet due to the introduction of dubious provisions beyond the procedure between the two parliamentary readings. We are witnessing the latest days of joint and unanimous statements by judges of the Supreme Court and professors of criminal, criminal departments of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split on this final proposal for amendments and addition of the ZKP, so both the profession and the academic community are unanimously against the new provisions that were introduced between the two readings into the assembly. All citizens of this country are certainly unanimous to shorten the length of court proceedings that have been rarely extended for years, but the changes introduced in this final proposal, which are prohibited by the second, the second suspension of the first-degree verdict with the intensification of court proceedings is questionable at a higher level. First of all, these changes were tabled in the final proposal between the two readings, which means that the legal procedure of the public debate has been bypassed. This directly violates the article. 11. The law on the right to access information which clearly prescribes the obligation to consult the public when the law is passed. These proposals were therefore not in the e-consultation and therefore we believe that they cannot be accepted in this final proposal. All judges of the Supreme Court were given only 2 working days to show about this significant change, and they simply could not do so. The request for a statement of the same didn't even reach the professors of the criminal departments of our law school. Not even the first, and I'm afraid for the last time, that the opinion of the profession is not sought or formally sought with too short deadlines for a reasoned observation. This neglect of the profession is merely a continuation of the suspended practice of ignoring all the professions in the writing of laws and making important decisions. And we wonder whether this will finally come to an end and whether it will finally come to an end in the government of the Republic of Croatia and accept the fact that without the profession there will be no good laws, resulting in neither the necessary reforms, nor decisions that will really change for the improvement of all citizens of this country. Therefore, these changes have not passed the expert debate that is necessary in cases that so deeply penetrate the criminal proceedings, its quality and justice. Judges and professors appeal to our common sense, ours, our MPs and MPs, primarily of course to the ruling majority to accept the arguments of the profession and send this proposal to amend and supplement the CAP for a third reading. And perhaps the best thing to do is access the new lawmaking. The main issues raised by these new proposals for the ban on the second suspension of the first-degree ruling are whether this really affects the swift completion of the proceedings and whether it affects the quality of such a trial equally. The main objections to this proposal to ban the second suspension of the first-degree verdict are the following. Therefore, the proposal is based on the wrong assessment of the practice of second-degree courts because no analysis has been carried out or data on the number of cases in which multiple suspensions of first-degree judgments have occurred. So there is no statistical basis for this to justify such sudden provisions. The criminal proceedings shall reflect the solutions to the criminal proceedings which are not applicable in the criminal proceedings. Therefore, due to the systematic differences between criminal proceedings and the litigation of the second suspension of the judgment, it is not applicable in criminal matters, in particular when essential provisions have been committed in the first instance, infringement of the provisions of the proceedings. Experts estimate that the legal proposal is inquisitored against the defendants because an inquisitorial debate is proposed that only the court may carry out evidence while the defendant's rights of defence are lifted because of the first-degree court's mistakes. The defendant no longer has the right to carry out evidence, has no right to new facts and does not even have to be present for the hearing. So no defence rights were considered at all, and what was likely to be considered was a great dissatisfaction from the public because politics had decided obviously to react in this way to speed up the procedure by violating fundamental constitutional rights. Furthermore, the contested proposal would have a negative impact on the quality of the trial and court decisions, as well as on the extension, rather than on the shortening of the proceedings, which is obviously the main intensities of the ministry. The judge of the first degree that the decision has been lifted, and knowing that it can no longer be repeated, can simply rewritten the same decision and put a second degree to deal with the correction of the injuries he himself has established. It is clear that such a provision is not motivating for judges of first degree courts that is already happening in litigation proceedings. Furthermore, such a provision will bring second-degree courts to situations that have to confirm the judgments made in the proceedings in which fundamental rights have been violated because most of these infringements are impossible to remove through a second-degree debate. Therefore, in the second-degree debate, it is not possible to remove significant infringements by provisions of criminal proceedings such as those of the case. if the court has not been given jurisdiction, if the judge has to be exempt or if the first-degree judgment is based on not unlawful evidence. This will result in the abolition of these judgments and in the procedures under extraordinary legal remedies and by this Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. And this will not only lead to the extension of these proceedings but also to the further loss of trust in the judiciary. And this proposal is not in line with other provisions of the CAP and would thus violate the entire system of legal medicines. This, as we have already stated, would also lead to confirmation of judgments, although they contained significant infringements of the provisions of criminal proceedings. In a nutshell, it would be these new, new things that were put in place as if teachers were not allowed to crash students on exams the second time because if you didn't get them ready so that you could go through another time, you didn't do your job or, for example, do your job. that the Constitutional Court is allowed only once to abolish some law as anti-constitutional. All the arguments I have here are arguments of the profession, judges of the Supreme Court's criminal department, judges, so judges of the Supreme Court's criminal department, the High Criminal Court, professor of the criminal department of all our law schools. All these arguments were also sent to the parliamentary committees on the judiciary and legislation, as well as to the president of parliament. They're sending them to the MPs, too. We suggest that we listen to them and at the very least send this proposal back to the government for the purposes of doing so and the third reading to avoid the bad consequences of such a proposal, which will certainly not be what is necessary for Croatian society, and this is a thorough reform of the judiciary. So once again I appeal to return the law to third reading, turn on the profession and the public so that there is a really quality proposal that will really be the basis for reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115706	Thank you, thank you, thank you, yes, yes, I am. Mr. Michel Jaksic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115707	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Good afternoon, everyone. As of this morning, we have been in the parliamentary benches and the parliamentary committees on the subject of this law, although the law itself has been busy for several days with all kinds of professional, but also with the rest of the interested public. And what I must say in the opening section is that unfortunately through the example of this law and all that we have heard so far as arguments on both sides shows that the path to hell is filled with the best possible intentions because it is certain that all together, and by ruling, we have a great desire to change the situation, that the judiciary is better, that citizens have a better perception of our judiciary, but simply this step that we are about to take today is an indicator, would dare to say one considerable and communicative and professional disaster because we are brought into a situation that between the first and second readings is doing a major structural change in the very appearance of the law, without having had an adequate public debate, without having an adequate debate with many more interested parties and factors and then in one of these common tones of respect of the professions and professional proposals has become clear and passed the best possible law. What I've been communicating with the Justice Committee this morning is that we have almost a month until the assembly break itself, and it's simply not clear to anyone from the SDP club why this has not now been left in some debate where another 10, 15, 20 days could have been obtained to make the legal proposal more adequate and nutritious because what we hear these days and from the profession and from the representatives of the Criminal Department at the Supreme Court and from a number of other judges who have something to say about it is ultimately being shown as a message that none of us and none of the profession are against doing everything possible to make the system itself even more transparent, because it will be even better, but to do everything in our power to make these processes faster. It is not a normal situation for us to have so many large cases where there have been spectacular arrests by some large fish, the situation that some have fled across the border, some have welcomed the outdated ones, some and today have not yet come to any power and all of this together does not create a nice picture of Croatian justice, but it does not make a good picture of Croatian institutions, and we are representatives of the most Croatian institutions because we are sending a message that we do not care and that it is so good. And of course, we all want it to change together, but it is also not the solution that such a single decision and a change that should ultimately be positive is made over the knee, and that we get unanimous opposition from the Supreme Court Penalty Department to publish the law for the second reading, and we also get unanimous unison opposition from all four or all of the leading people, four cathedrals in the largest Croatian universities dealing with this particular topic. It's not a good message and it's not a good way to go, and we can say that theory and practice can differ, that there are all kinds of examples, but just when there's such unanimous opinion that this isn't good and that it's more to talk about and give yourself more effort to find a more adequate model then we really get to what counterpart Ursha said, that maybe we should stop at the ball a little bit because it won't kill anyone for a week, two, three, four expansions of the debate and that we simply see how this bill makes it adequate and make it better. Because since 2008. We've had eight changes to the CAP, and these are the ninth changes to the CAP, so it turns out that every year, a year and a half, we're doing changes, and I don't think anyone should be the goal of getting back into a situation that in about a year, a year or a half, we're doing some new changes to the CAP because it's going to show that what we're doing today wasn't good enough and it hasn't provided the fundamental thing that we should have in our judicial system, and that's at least the principle of some justice for the start. In our first reading, we had certain objections where we claimed that in a certain way the rights of the defendant would be violated, that they would not have equal conditions, that these people would need help. We have had certain questionnaires about the digital or technological infrastructure itself to implement all that we want with this law and what is truly commendable, we see today that this deadline is even later, so it will not go on immediately either, and then there is really one major structural change in this interface that we should all ask ourselves about because it is not really and we have to agree either, nor does it normally, that in such an important law immediately after the publication of the entire professional public comes out with the the thesis that it will end in a constitutional court with the fact that the law itself is anti-constitutional and that it is expected that the Constitutional Court will have to intervene and have to change it. What I can only say about the government and the rulings is that from law to law, especially when we look through the judiciary and through all the laws that we are now really making in packages to reform and change things with the best intention, but we have very interesting opposition issues. So, when the opposition in the election of the President/President of the Supreme Court said that the Supreme Court unfortunately began to act as one closed judicial caste, we were then criticised that we wanted to violate the independence of the Supreme Court, that we wanted to violate their expertise and that we wanted to politicise all the processes that were then led around the election of the President/President of the Supreme Court. Now, on the other hand, we have a situation where we say good let's put a foot on the ball because no matter how much they get along or disagree with them, these people are representatives of the profession, and now we have interpretations of the ruling that it's not the most important and not the best. I believe that all of us in this assembly have a great desire and a great will to change the situation in the Croatian judiciary, that we do not have results in researching the perceptions of the judiciary that are most often and not data of the SDP, Most, Mosta, HDZ, Željko Sačić and the sovereigns, these are unfortunately in the most common cases, the EU Commission and the Commissioner for Justice, the perception among the citizens of Croatia, that we have the least confidence in the justice system itself, and therefore we can say that perhaps we have the worst impressions that our judiciary has. Some things are too critical because there are certainly honest and honest people, but for some things we are at the end of the day and guilty of ourselves. And in order to change these things, I think that even in future laws, starting with this should still take a lot more communication, a lot more dialogue and between ruling and opposition, but also with an interested professional public, which the teachers and judges of the Supreme Court of Criminal Court definitely are. The way to do something quickly, to turn out to be a force, to want to combine points, to leave 2, 3 days for the Supreme Court to be seen and to have opinions, is not the way neither transparency nor correctness, but it is not a good way to start restoring trust in the Croatian judiciary and to start reforming and changing the Croatian judiciary for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115708	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115709	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, she would congratulate the opposition because for the first time in this House's assembly she was able to revote HDZ and it's an important precedent, I think Really hope, so you need to be at the debates and you need to follow. [[Applause.]] What she wanted to do was really unacceptable. So a united debate on two so important laws that one and the other have a weight that is worthy of two debates was an attempt to in some way reduce the importance, perhaps errors, perhaps malignancies, I will not actually calculate here what is behind this move, but the obvious fact that between the first and second readings, but the crucial change of the Law and there is a breach of the procedure, which has been warned by both legal professionals and professors and professors at the university and frankly, I do not understand why it seems. Minister Malenica answered me in my question that it is about having got the green light, is it, for such a change and I suppose that such, I think, I am a layman, therefore in that profession, but we all know that we should speed up the means of judicial proceedings themselves, that, that you get the green light to limit the meaning of the conduct of second-degree courts that must, means to make that judgment as soon as possible, but if so, then it's completely unclear why it didn't be put into first reading, right? I mean, there's just no argument, so why didn't it get into the first reading? That's where we didn't get the answer, I hope, Minister, that you'll answer that question because that's where it's actually being born doubting why it's done this way. No one is slow to mean that it is necessary to speed up court proceedings, court proceedings, the government is clearly seeking to prevent second-degree courts from returning multiple times means that they are returning the verdicts to the first degree. It could only be done with these changes once, is it, and if they think the verdict still needs to be abolished another time, it wouldn't be, is it possible, but what experts have warned themselves, that not every proposal, did it, get the green light just because it's being touched by the real question, right? I mean, we can, so cynically say, what I've already said, speed up court proceedings by abolishing the judiciary, is that, I guess, that's not our goal. It is necessary to listen to the profession, if the profession has warned that here, in fact, it would not lead to a faster resolution of criminal proceedings, and in order to raise the question of the fairness of the proceedings as a whole, then two things can be done. Or it means to accept a mistake and send it to the third reading of the law, which actually serves the third reading, means there's no reason not to send the law into the third reading and let the public discuss and let the professional public discuss and let the e- Consultation Act or it can go into a new legislative proposal. This would also be according to the procedure and, according to the very importance of this Law, really important to do, if there is still some room for dialogue, even though it is our aim to pass laws that are in the direction of justice. This is one of the basic laws, so if something is the purpose of the law, then it's justice, and this law is fundamental to justice and some kind of social justice. I am often skeptical, together with the Workers' Front on the attainment of legislative norms in the sense that we believe that an insufficient economic perspective is not included in the frequent criticism of normative legislative procedures and frameworks. Why? Because it seems like it's simple, if we need to replace the corrupt, set up the unsuspecting, and things will be settled. We believe that corruption in Croatia itself is a matter of structural and legitimate corruption and that a lot of things mean with which the social working majority loses the possibility of normal and dignified life related to fully legalised procedures of kidnapping, seduction, privatisation, conversion, from the 90s themselves to here, but of course the legislative framework has its weight and here we feel that it is really necessary to listen to the profession, and means the president of the criminal department of the Supreme Court Damir Kos said, the law is the work of a bad student who misrepresents someone from the food side. Head of the Department of Criminal Law Prof. Zlata Djurdjevic warned that the ministry is in violation of the procedure, is the key change taking place in a second reading without e-consultation and expert debate, she also warned that all four law schools have repeatedly been ignored in writing the final draft of the law. In the law itself, there are some minor thoughts of changes that are good, such as sound recording of the debate or changes in the direction of electronic possibilities or the possibility of using an audio visual link in the debate and in particular the victim's examination, we certainly call it and we think it is good, but the whole procedure is so tailored and made that the law will certainly not be able to support because it is necessary that the public debate laws, that the laws have a practice of public debate through all possible tools available, and if that did not happen then there is always a correction exam, and the correction exam is a third reading, so we appeal that this happens in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115710	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115711	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I've often talked about this payphone that this picture gathers how it works and how it actually works with citizens to make impressions about the entire political scene and that the empty assembly in the sense that the empty benches in which there's no one else, but also emptyed out of quality content actually helps HDZ rule. Therefore, the presence of us MPs particularly opposition in the assembly is the first step in changing the paradigm, and today we are on this trail because at a certain point, at a time of voting, there were more opposition MPs than those of the ruling ones have won one small victory and I think we need this to be a guideline because we should all be a common goal as much as we disagree that after the next parliamentary elections HDZ does not have a majority, and then we will have better procedural laws and better anti-corruption laws and a better and fairer state in general. And then I'm going to continue on the second subject that I'm also often talking about, it's a change of Rules of Procedure, a change in the structure of lawmaking and this model that's actually happening between first and second reading. I am pleased to have the same chairman as the last time I asked a rhetorical question, could the opposition ask for something to be added to any legislative proposal in the first reading that was not at all part of the basic structure of the proposed amendments and additions. In fact, we had a situation here that, in the first reading, apart from the introduction of electronic communication, which represents only adapting the process to the trial of technological achievements in which we live, we had nothing else at the time, so I pointed out that the home working bodies such as the Justice Committee should be asked what the State's Attorney General's Office's reports were being filed from the period of Dinko Cwitan, which pointed out the shortcomings of the CAP, particularly in that section, which, for example, made it impossible for the state's attorneys to appeal to a decision which the indictment was returned to them or which the indictment was not confirmed, in fact, obstructed the further course of the criminal proceedings. This and some other issues have not been considered at all by the Registrar, I have now pointed out in the replica that because the minister has no procedural experience because his political career is more dominant than his professional who is solely academic, so someone who has not seen live has not felt the courtroom, has not felt what is happening in it, there is no experience of how certain legal provisions have a procedural effect on the outcome of the criminal process, but also on the litigation, there is nothing to be a team leader in proposing any procedural reform procedures. To the rhetorical question of whether the opposition can ask for something to be added to the proposed amendments and the law in the first reading, we know that there would be nothing. What happened, they remembered by ruling to introduce this structural change, which requires that, in fact, in order to allegedly speed up the trial process and to reach a final judicial verdict, the case cannot be returned twice to the first-degree court for rejuvenation. This is the problem so much that the resolution minister did not make an effort to extend the public debate, to include judges, not only those judges who were elected by his hand to be members of the task force because they are generally very obedient people who are in these working groups just so that it is a cartoon and reference in their future career in which they will be re-elected to the HDZ proposal again, rather than to ask those judges who will actually know how it will affect the cases that are now in their courtrooms, it did not happen. Therefore, the Supreme Court here is right when it requires that such a law be not passed, that the word of the profession is more respected, so we as the Club of the Center and the GLAS will insist that this law enters the third reading as well. As a contribution and as part of the argument why it should be done, I'll say that in the proposal one was stolen, and I'm not going to say mistake, but actually intensity and intent. If we say that the main problem of this country is that it has unequal court practice, that one and the same right which is written somewhere in the law for two different persons, for two different entities in a process will not be applied in the same way and it is necessary to see where the causes of such a situation are actually. So other than corrupt judges, some things are structurally embedded in the wrong, and I'm going to say stupid, stupid legal proposals. Here's what happened here. Therefore, this electronic trial, the electronic recording of the tone debates, and in order to partially mitigate that justified criticism of the profession that said that a part of the defendants in the criminal proceedings would thus be suspended for their rights of defence, introduced the possibility that recorded discussions could be technically copied in some records, but neither will this be done always for the reason that they are ruling that our courts are not technically equipped at the moment. Imagine that in the 21st century in a country that spends and throws money on which some corruption affairs, our courts are not technically equipped to absorb such technical changes of law at all. So HDZ came up with what is best, which is to establish double rights, double standards and double standards. Something will be made possible and given, and some will not. Now, that's the HDZ country. And without any shame, because shame doesn't even have that black on white in the light of this law and writing. So he says the supply of technical equipment will go gradually. It is known that HDZ needs money for some other matters, for their corrupt affairs and corrupt ministers, and therefore to amend the current provisions of Article 409 which would immediately enter into force has the intensities to be made possible only in a particular situation, following the decision of the President of the Council. It will thus be encouraged to use this provision only as a possibility if a particular courtroom and after each courtroom is equipped with appropriate technical equipment during the transitional period until the introduction of mandatory tone recording of discussions in all situations. What does translation mean? That the outcome of a criminal proceedings will depend on which court and court will also, i.e. on the technical equipment of the courtroom, which will automatically process the data and the e-system of the file to be assigned to someone. So this is a law that says ahead of the citizens, the defendants, since the participants in criminal proceedings, you are not equal at first. Well, it is my pleasure to see representatives except those who do not think with their own heads, who will raise their hands for such a law. I certainly won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115712	Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, the first individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115713	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine your root is broken, you're in terrible pain, and the dentist says you just need to polish your tooth a little bit, and everything's gonna be fine. It is clear that under the pressure of pain you would seek another dentist because the broken root must be either cured or the tooth must be removed, polishing will not solve anything. It is your proposals to amend the criminal law that are polishing, pointless spending time on something that will not solve anything because the situation in the Croatian judiciary is like a broken dental root, a deep problem. And the cause of these deep destructions and injustices is those who run the DORH and the judiciary and the chosen narrow group of lawyers. Non-compliance with the law, selective application of the law, but sometimes overstepping powers are not the result of poor legislation or legal incomprehension of people from the judicial system but are already the result of similarity, unethicalness, immorality and corruption. If the DORH for the case of software and Zhaoac considers that corruption is not a product worth 3 million kunas to pay 13 million kuna then it is not a question of ignorance but a question of the evil intention of whoever said this was a clean job. Who brought that word that it was a clean job? This person has a name and a last name, this person must be suspended and it must be determined whether the cover-up of crime is a crime that a couple of excellence did alone in the group or received a warrant from someone. And this commitment of the DORH and the judiciary accompanied by the media protection of corrupt media is the real problem of Croatian society and state as a whole. If the County Court in Zagreb has not reached a first-degree verdict after 12 years in the case of an ATM then it is clear that it is a matter of protection of crime. No law is a problem for that matter. It's about who's involved in a particular case that the judiciary protects. In the case of an ATM, former President Mesic called the then president of the Post office of Protega Postegu and instructed him to pay off the unsecured loans of KIO Orahovica, which is contrary to all the legality of the banking business and did. HPB lost tens of millions of kunas because the company failed. In this case, the judiciary is acting on the known method of stalling to eventually lose interest in a particular case, and the whole case ends up out of date. The methods of these pranks are changing lawyers, returning the case file to completion, as the scandalous judge Turudic did in this case, changing the court council, etc. Here I would like to remind you of one case that best depicts all the insolence that makes the Croatian judiciary a Croatian citizen. As we know to lie to the court under oath, it's a felony. In the case of former Prime Minister Sanader and the disputes against him, the Croatian public found out that a few of the defendants, who under oath changed their statements several times without the DORH accusing any of them of perjury, i.e. false testimony. The scandalous DORH did not charge former customs chief Barisic and others with lying in court, but had the need to accuse our football geniuses Dejan Lovren and Luka Modric in the course of the World Cup in Russia, to accuse Modric and Lovren, who were almost underage and who did what they were told by someone who was their authority indeed is absurd and sick. The abuse of powers given to them by the DORH and the judiciary in the meantime is so obvious and open that they are unbearable. In Croatia, there will be no change for the better until the preconditions are established for the DORH and the judiciary to be cleared of corruption because the causes of the problem in all segments of Croatian society and the cause of Croatian citizens' emigration are disrespecting the legal order created by the judiciary. It should also be made clear to the people of the DORH and to the people in the judiciary that no one has authorized them to be the service of the powerful and abusers of Croatian citizens in this violation of the constitution, laws and fundamental values of the EU. The Croatian judiciary should be sure that justice may be slow, but it is very reaching and that it will eventually respond to its work, and it will be convinced I am very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115714	Thank you. Mr. Pavlovichk replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115715	Dear colleague Vidovic Kristo. In these exhibitions, you are most often engaged in corruption as a cancer of early Croatian society and, unfortunately, in Transparency International, by the corruption index of Croatia, for years it has been stagnating and even falling, among the three most corrupt countries we are currently in the EU. What should be done urgently to change Croatia's picture of a country no longer having corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115716	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115717	Thank you, fellow Pavlich. So, if we are already calling for what is affecting the whole world, then we must again and again and again and constantly stress that the whole world is attesting to us and Croatian citizens know that we have the worst judiciary in the EU. If we are talking about early corruption, then we must clearly say that, but it is the consequence, the cancer of Croatian society's wounds is the Croatian judiciary, and within that judiciary, the cancer of the wounds is the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115718	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, we would also like to look at the introduction of audio and audio video video footage of court hearings. To begin with, of course, we welcome digitisation, but we believe that, apart from the hearing, court settlements and actions outside the court building should be recorded. Therefore, the urgency is that when technical conditions are ensured for all discussions to be recorded, the copying of the video is not required by the President of the Council when there are justified reasons. Which are justifiable reasons it is not precise. It is also not precise when and how a copy of the video will be sent to the parties. The problem is that the transcription of the tone record is only a possibility, not a commitment. It is clear that the intensity is the acceleration of the process itself, but it is prescribed in this way that it will create a new problem that will ultimately slow down rather than speed up the process. Examples of complications are multiple from facing witnesses who change testimony or supplement early testimony with previous testimony, through the identification of all votes in the courtroom until the duration of writing the decision itself. Certainly copying audio recordings of the debate is important for the accuracy of the evidence building. In practice, serious problems have already arisen with the existing CAP in assessing and evaluating the evidence building that exists only in audio or audio video format. We consider it mandatory to copy a sound recording, but not by using a speech-to-text program because such programs are still not quite perfect, and if they translate a speaker who does not adapt to such transcription generally leads to unusable material, which is the experience of some judges who already use such devices and know what is necessary to obtain material that can be used, and such conditions are unfortunately not always feasible in the debates. That's why we think the transcripts should be done by the recorders. A quality copy of the video of the debate is not only necessary to the judge to make reasons for the verdict but also to make it easier to verify the correctness and judgments by procedure, according to legal medicines. It's easy to find important parts in the transcript, and then the video needs to be listened to. So we don't think it's a good idea to break the current record system because maybe this could prove to be too dangerous an experiment, but we should keep the record with, of course, audio or audio video. And finally, I think it's worth reminding that the new CAP of 2008. Dropped at the Constitutional Court in 2012, late Professor The court judge's thief said the CAP is a small constitution because it sees the level of protection of human rights. At that time, the Constitutional Court found that the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was unconstitutional and incompatible. From the point of view of the criminal justice system, Djurdjevic is a far-reaching constitutional decision that has laid down constitutional frameworks and constitutional orders within the long term that the legislator must respect when norming criminal procedural law. We are now in a situation where such a situation is repeated because, in the opinion of the profession of this amendment and of the addition of the Criminal Procedure Act, we are certainly going to fall into the Constitutional Court, which means that we will lose a few years again, in that time we will have bad, unquality judgments and fundamental human rights will be violated. The question is, is that really necessary? Why is it so hard to admit a mistake? We all make mistakes, but only smart and well-meaning and admit their mistake. That is why we are again calling on the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice to withdraw this proposal and to go into third reading. It is the only way we will get a quality law in line with constitutional provisions, and that is the only way we can truly say that we are working on the necessary genuine reform of the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115720	Thank you. I apologize for earlier. I misread one of your breaks because I thought you were done. But now we're moving on. Mrs. Nemett, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115721	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues. I'm glad you touched the court records. I'll just give you the information that pays for officers with 10 years of employment is up to 4000 kuna, and with 25 years of employment up to 4700 kuna. The court records have very small salaries, a very responsible job. I believe that the minister, together with the ministry, should listen to the union and allow the increase of such low wages, and the argument is also that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in his recommendations for improving the quality and urgency of the work of the courts paid particular attention to the inadmissiblely low salaries of court officials and tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115722	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115723	I thank my colleagues Nemett for asking, i.e. No questions asked, no findings. I can only agree with you. And, in general, other than quality laws, it is perfectly safe for the quality of justice that adequate salaries are needed, appropriate fees for weight and demand of each job as is also necessary for staffing without political powers, let's say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115724	Thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115725	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Although I am not a lawyer, I have made an effort, so I have carefully read the first reading and this final proposal and public consultation. I really have a few misunderstandings here, I don't know how you've figured out the following remarks. Let's say in public consultation the judges of the High Criminal Court say that audio-video recording and devices have not really defined clearly how this will be conducted. The defendants can agree to audio-video footage, those who are in prison, are they going to be in controlled conditions. However, nothing is said for defenders where they will be, is it possible for them to audio-video or will have to be in court. Furthermore, in the public consultation, the answer is that the proposal in question will enter into force on 1 September 2023 and now here it finally writes on 1 October 2024. I mean, there's so much change. What we said to the minister, but he can't accept all those remarks we've been talking about. Here's how much of this inexplicable there is to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115726	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115727	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Maric. I'm not a lawyer like you, but I've been preparing myself for this debate with the lawyers, with the Supreme Court judges, with the professors of law school, and I've been consulting as well as an e-consultation, and it's clear from all of this that this bill is not sufficiently precise, that we now disregard these past procedures put in place and unlawfully inserted proposal. So, by now, there are enough things to be done simply so that the law can be better and we can just ask again that there is reason for someone to wake up and go to third reading with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115728	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115729	Thank you, colleagues Gamulin-Raukar. I agree with you, and that's our club's suggestion that this law goes into third reading. Until that third reading should indeed be asked by those who most often apply this law in practice. I also agree with my IDS colleague, Katarina Nemet, who has well pointed out that there is a problem with paying for those technical services of the notaries and others who should do these and carry out these technical activities. What is also understated, because no one likes to admit that someone knows or cannot, that in addition to these overly low coefficients and low underpriced wages, there is also an insufficient degree of their technical ability to carry out some of the activities in the courtroom, which also makes it difficult for a judge who does things that in normal states judges don't do because they have professional service and assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115730	You, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115731	I thank my colleagues, Oreshković, for your comment. I would add what is today on the Justice Committee also said to the lawyer's representative, which is that it was completely forgotten about low-income citizens who were asked how they would be able to make these audio recordings of them if they didn't have them, how they would be informed about it. This is another reason why we believe that the classical record should remain with audio and video. The dates, as counterpart Maric says, were obviously not taken into account, but we are with the right digitisation and education of the judicial services for the use of this digitisation are indeed almost in turn. Not really, but we're here somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115732	Thank you. Mrs. Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115733	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, today, in your presentations, you have mentioned a violation of procedures and a violation of the laws themselves. So, among other things, I can mention breaking the very Rules of Procedure of this High House, so the Law on Access to Information, so the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, I believe that procedures exist for a reason and that they should be respected. What kind of message do we actually send to our public today who listens to this debate and hears in fact about how we present evidence and concrete facts where it is evident that procedures and even laws are being violated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115734	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115735	I'd like to thank my fellow Wolfess. Especially in such important laws, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, I think it is crucial to stick to the procedure. Procedures are always important because they keep us in some kind of framework that guarantees some kind of just and proper action. However, I would like to stress that in such brutal laws, such as the CAP, the procedures are inescapably important and therefore, here, once again we appeal, obviously common to the Ministry for this law to be directed to third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115736	Replica, Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115737	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I have to admit that you're a little contradictory with yourself and that's what I mean by your club. In fact, you said that when you prepared for this second reading you consulted with certain professions, lawyers, etc., it was clearly visible from what you said exactly which lawyers you consulted, however, when I say that you are contradictory, then I think of it because obviously during the first reading you consulted with yourself anyway, so here I will remind you that just when we talk about the ban on double suspension of the first degree verdict, that it is one so this new article. 484a, so I quote for the reasons listed why changes occurred, so between the first reading and the second reading, taken into account the remarks of Parliament's representative Sandra Bencic. If I'm not mistaken, it's a parliamentary representative who belongs to your club. Also, let me, if I can finish, thank you. [[You're not wrong.]] Also, as far as the transcription is concerned, it will always be done when it is sought by the defendant, taking into account the remarks of counterpart Sandra Bencic. So is it you're still standing that it's unconstitutional, that there's no respect for some procedure here, or are you, what I said at the beginning? They're in contradiction with themselves. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115738	Now you have the right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115739	Well, unfortunately, my colleague Sandra Bencic, because of her business duties, couldn't be at the hearing today, so would you excuse me? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't hear [[You can't hear the intruder.]] to answer you personally. [[/Intruder: Here you go. No, no, no.]] What? Do I entertain you, Minister? [[Look, I'm sorry, this isn't a round table. Here you go.]] Well, I know, but he's throwing so I don't know. [[Intruder: No, no, it's not a round table, you can't have a dialogue with...]] Okay, so, my colleague Bencic is not here to answer on her own, but she certainly did not advocate such a change that has now entered into this final amendment and addition of the CAP, and she will certainly explain it to you in detail. [[But I know you can't have any either, no one can.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115740	No more replicas To be clear, there is a dialogue, but in a way that one speaks, and the other answers. [[Okay, thank you.]] That's right. I know, I know, but what I said is in the rule book, and... in the future, we might change the rules. Mr. Zekanovic, however, is now up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115741	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I have to look first at one interesting piece of information that we just heard that my colleague Bencic is not here because he has business obligations. Hello. Does he have any business obligations? And I thought that she, uh, got paid in HS and was chosen by the Croatian people to do something here in HS for the Croatian people, and she's actually working somewhere else. Who knows where those are her business obligations, maybe she gets another salary from Soros, it's.../incomprehensible/... not maybe, for sure. It's actually extremely safe. I get here right at the beginning because it's related to the topic, of course, we had immediately at those opening debates an interesting statement by the leader of the opposition of the coat of arms, of course, when there is no Grumoja in the Parliament who tried in such a subtle way to make it known that pedophilia, according to him should not be subject to the Penal Code. Is that possible? Well, I've heard that, he's surprised, why someone mentions Split in the context of pedophilia, what does that have to do with the Penal Code, and it definitely has to be the subject of the Penal Code and, of course, it is. But to put a little bit of emphasis on these crimes that are quite current, counterpart Oreshkovic said if we were going to lie and say that a 17-year-old girl did not engage in intimate relations. So it's okay that someone's a pedophile, and then Ivica Puljak gets a ball to her party buddy, turns out that the criminal is someone who's looking for a sex partner. And it all goes from the mainstream media so unmarked, you can't see, you can't hear, and then when you talk about this bill, here I really am, sitting there, listening, I haven't heard a single concrete comment on this bill. Not one. The only observation is, according to the Honorable Minister, this should go into third reading. Why? So we can discuss more. And you know what else is most interesting? When we initially decided here whether or not we were going to have a united debate, or if we are going to do every law in particular, the opposition, the united opposition, I must stress, a united opposition because there is also colleague Karolina Vidović Kristo and colleague Bartulica, together with Oreshkovic and Grbina, raised their hands, they were to discuss separately, and now they left the assembly. They're nice at home now. Maybe they have business obligations, too. So we will stand here until the end of the debate, discuss this issue of two laws separately, and they are home to their own. So who's crazy here? What? [[/Intruder: Mrs. Vidovic is here, Mr. Zekanovic.]] Yes, yes, excuse me, here, so colleague Vidovic is still there. [[Intruder: Mrs. Vidovic is...]] Here, now a little bit, here's more concrete, what I've already warned the respected minister in the replica, I'll warn you again, about this electronic correspondence or correspondence that will be possible by adopting this bill, I wish you'd made it a little clearer for us, a little clearer about security. As soon as something is electronic it's always there's a possibility of some kind of manipulation with that information. And the second thing, here's the mention of this fellow Nemett, she's very well noticed that court writers have extremely poor salaries, and we have one crisis and decision-making in the country and some negative selection when it comes to state affairs, and I don't mean just state and local self-government and regional self-government just because of low wages. Unfortunately, what's the problem that's getting more and more obvious today, thank God I'm going to say that the wages are somehow in relation to the country have grown in the private sector, but we're going to have a huge, huge problem in the long run because we're going to have a negative selection. Perhaps another thing that no one has spoken of in the United States of Australia, if I am not mistaken, the United Kingdom is not allowed with cameras to enter the courtrooms. You have some sketches of judicial sketches being done there, the reason it's justified is to really disrupt the trial. Perhaps if something like this were to be predicted in Croatia, here's just one thing to think about, I think it's worth talking about and thinking about in the resolution ministry. Here's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115742	Thank you very much. You have your replicas. In most parliaments, nothing is allowed inside or transparents, or bottles, or It's just a voice to be parlyin', is that, to be spoken up. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Cocaine.]] Mr. Sacic's breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115743	That's right, thank you. So, he's injured. In 238, again today, from a respected counterpart of Zekanovic, did all of us honorary opposition representatives put under the flag of the leader of the opposition of Peđa Grbin. It is indeed inadmissible and demeaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115744	There was a replica by the difolt going notice. Ma'am... Because it was a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't give another... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Sacic, you have another warning. ... Excuse me, and the third warning you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, I don't think I'm uncomfortable. I'm embarrassed. [[Intruding Zekanovic: Third fortune.]] Mrs. Andrea Maric is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115746	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman. Art. In 238 he was injured, a colleague of Zekanovic disrespects all of us. First of all, he's twisting things, so there was no talking here at all about not condemning pedophilia, that's not at all the law at all now, so he's turning off the subject. It is clearly written in art. 238th Chairman. So here we're talking about the CAP and then stick to the topic. And secondly, do not twist and disdain what someone said. Pedophilia is for every conviction, but now we're talking about another law and stick to it if you're already attached to HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115747	Thank you very much, thank you. It was a replica, it was a replica. It's a warning. Michel Jaksic, Mr. Michel Jakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115748	The Honorable Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, where counterpart Zekanovic would try to wash his chips face with those blackest and worst Stalinist methods that we could watch only in films serve to accuse the entire opposition of defending pedophilia. I mean, if it's one of the most common chips known for cheating on all their partners and voters, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115749	You know I'm in shape, not content, you have a warning because it was a replica. Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115750	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, as counterpart Sacic said to us, Pedja Green is not the leader of the opposition, but I am glad that my colleague Zekanovic raised his hand today with the rulings and that it was recorded and that he has a leader, and that is Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115751	The warning, it was a replica. Mr. Luka Brcic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115752	... victims of such or similar violence if they come from other countries outside the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115754	Dear colleague, here's a thank you for asking. Before I answer, I need to make a little reference to everything I've heard. I will apologize not only to Bartulica and counterpart Vidovic Kristo, together with the SDPs raised their hands, but also to this former party that I will not say the name to, and my colleague, Sacic, together with the coat of arms. Yes, I raised my hand together this time with the ruling majority because I think it's as wise and as smart as I'll always do. And I did not, unlike you colleagues, drive in the car of blurred glass and go to Plenkovic for secret meetings so that no one would see me. I'll support him when I want to and publicly from this assembly, and you with the foggy glass on your head go to Plenkovic whenever you want. It's your right and you'll do it. As far as the Stalinist methods are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115755	Wait, wait, you have a replica on... You have a replica of the gentleman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, it was a replica, not a stalemate method. ... This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure around the Stalinist methods. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Pavlovich is in violation of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115756	The violation of Rules of Procedure, 238nd colleague Zekanovic, degrades parliamentary representatives. My colleague Zekanovic, I can see that you from the stained veins are trying to get at HDZ, and that's your legitimate right. Do your best and I'll keep your fingers crossed and I believe that Andrej Plenkovic will reward you and put you on the list and you'll see HS again. I don't ever have to see him, but I keep my direction apart from some.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115757	Second warning, Mr. Pavlovichk. Mr. Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115758	Thank you very much. We present our colleague Zekanovic here daily with certain situations, and you mentioned something. Here, colleague Oreshkovic daily criticises the opposition that she can't work, that she doesn't sit here that they're bad, that they're a disaster and that there's nothing I can do as such. A colleague of Raukar now attacked her colleague that she had better things to do than sit here in the assembly, that she had other business activities, maybe saving Holding. Then we testify to what is happening in Split. counterpart Oreshkovic says it is inconclusive And insecure and irresponsible pricks [[Intruder: And that is a replica, a replica.]] One to be voted on. [[Intruder: Bring, yes.]] And now you tell me if this progressive opposition really has the same thing besides scandals, except for this kind of behavior to offer Croatian citizens that it would be worth it so that tomorrow we can say here really these people who disgust themselves here in this assembly deserve to be at the head of them, lead them, and give them some opportunities to live better in this country than maybe now that they're leading the HDZ. It's really beneath every level. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115759	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, please respond to this replica of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115760	Dear colleague Boric, if it is progressive to cover up and relativize pedophile affairs, then we have one of the most progressive oppositions in the world probably. In the world probably because what I heard today came from a colleague named Maric who says that paedophile should not and should not be a subject today, I am disgusted. I'm disgusted. I'm also the parent of a 17-year-old girl and I'm having such an affair, and today the correspondence has come out, my hair's on my head. And then you'll be relativating here. When mentioned for a home ready, then you will get up on your feet and jump about the crime, speak even though with that greeting someone defended both our country Croatia and the 1990s, and when it comes to pedophile you will say that it is not a problem and that we will not talk about it. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115761	Nothing, I have no right to say my opinion, so I'll keep my mouth shut. Mrs. Andreja Maric, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115762	Thank you very much. Article 238, colleague Zekanovic, you obviously intended to twist everything I'm saying lately. So I didn't say at all that pedophile should not be discussed or that pedophilia is not a criminal offence. I said you're belittled, twisting what was there today's speech from the coat of arms further. Instead of constructively contributing to the discussion of this Code of Criminal Procedure, you are engaged in Split and I do not know what else. So give some of this to be correct and read about what is being debated You proved that a few days ago in the Traffic Act that you didn't read. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115763	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maric, as a replica, would be excellent, and since the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a warning because it was a replica. Let's write it once, make a deal, put it together, change that Rules of Procedure already, no. Ma'am, Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin. [[Intruder: It's a good Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115764	Dear colleague Zekanovic, you are truly lucky that Sandra Bencic has justifiably disappeared from the assembly today. You have almost dared to say good luck for a Split scandal, so if that's not enough for you then we have communists and I don't know what it takes to cover up a simple fact that you have nothing to say about the CAP. As you often have nothing to say in the discussions on certain laws, reports, and other work materials because you do not do so. And that should be said to one Croatian public. You have your own way that if someone likes someone's choice, but certainly you don't deal with what you should be dealing with, which is by studying the law of public debates and preparing for debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115765	Wait, I have to give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115766	Dear colleagues, putting glasses on top of your nose doesn't mean you've read the bill, it doesn't mean. And just because you say you're smart doesn't mean you're smart and that the light in Mr. Tomašević's office doesn't mean he works at night. So it's just your PR and the bad PR that's long since been infected. And you tell me, here's some breach of the Rules of Procedure or final debate in front of the club, tell me one particular thing, one particular grudge in this law. You've been running here for five minutes, you haven't said a word to the superintendent or a single grudge. Except I think you should have a third reading, so I told you, you wanted a separate discussion, where the colleagues who raised their hands, Mrs. Grbin, Mrs. Grbin now. And he's probably on a separate life right now in Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115767	Mrs. Dark Taritash, first breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115768	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I refer to Article 238, please explain to me where the Rules of Procedure stands and how the word racing is used [[Aggression: Racing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115769	I have to give you a warning because it was a replica, but it was a replica because in this, and what you want me to explain to you, in this assembly I think it's one of, it's offensive, it's offensive, it's offensive, I have to say it's offensive, but every time I say it, it's a mild, yet mild term, it uses to react I don't know what would happen. I feel the same way, I feel for you, but it was a replica. Here you go. It's a warning. Here you go, Damir Bačić, Bakic, Bakic, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115770	Thank you, sir. Vice-President [[There are two, there's already to Bačića and then.../]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President, this has been, so I'd like to report a breach of Rules of Procedure Article 238, a demeaning of MPs. [[Three would be too much.]] I wouldn't have called otherwise. I wouldn't answer that, because I think my colleague Zekanovic did, by his appearance, and even more by what he was saying. He doesn't really deserve to be pollemized with him. [[What's wrong with me?]] But I don't know, I don't know how low the bottom to use a vocabulary like this, this is how you talk to a colleague of Raukar, this is how you address all of us, and I don't know what it is to whom this insult serves. All of us, including our party colleagues, who are not parliamentary representatives. [[Intruder: Time, time, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115771	Sorry, sorry, sorry, but it was a replica. I'm sorry, but it was a replica. And a reminder, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115772	Your Honor, Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115773	Mr. Jaksic, what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115774	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238 by mentioning that the opposition to the race. The opposition had some suggestions, which would mean that the race and the Croatian legal profession, as well as the criminal department of the Supreme Court, which Zekanovic obviously had for the purposes of his future career and that he was no longer acclaimed to HDZ and Plenkovic and then insulted, and what we suggested he could hear, but clearly as usual he received instructions in the hallway what to say and how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115775	Okay. You said of course, it's a replica. There's a warning going on and I have to add something, and I have to add that every time we talk about the Constitutional Court in this assembly that it was measured, that the terms were measured, I don't know where we'd come from. I'm particularly uncomfortable with Mrs Urshi Raukar, Urshi Gamulin-Raukar, but I stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Habian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115776	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleague Zekanovic. I can agree with you, we haven't heard a single fundamental remark here today because it's gone, nothing, zero, except that it goes into third reading. What you've also said well, I don't think it's an insult, so this bill has been discussed by some who haven't read this law and I'm responsible for what you said is true. And that's what I said to my colleague Urshi Raukar who had to speak here obviously on behalf of her colleague Sandra Bencic, who we heard has some other business obligations today and is not in the Croatian Parliament, in the workplace. So in this bill of law, on the basis of the changes between the first and second readings, you have three remarks from colleague Sandra Bencic which have been adopted. So you haven't read it. If you'd read it, you wouldn't have said that this is wrong and that this is unconstitutional. So read the cited article 484a. The one you've been talking against all day, a colleague of Sandra Bencic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115777	Here's an answer, with a note, that we're moderating a little terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115778	Dear fellow Habiban, here I agree completely with you. Here I must say, for example, a little while ago, Mr. Bakic, the esteemed told me that he was even bothered by my appearance. I'm really trying, here's to wearing suits and exclusively in them I come to the Croatian Parliament, clean shirts every day, clothes I wear as often on dry cleaning unlike just before the named colleague Bencic who came here a few days ago would have told me in Sibenik in a T-shirt on decks for this same pay phone. So she probably doesn't have money for a long sleeve or a short sleeve but she's in a T-shirt on a deck. You know what spas are? So she came and you didn't mind her appearance, and I was extremely disturbed by her. Next time, let him come in a bathing suit. [[Mr. Zekanovic, let's stick to the law, please.]] Let's go with the one-piece, and we'll go to two-part. [[Please hold.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115779	We stick to the law and let's not wear that much to the dry cleaning suit because it's spent on dry cleaning. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115780	Zekanovic, if someone were to publish your private correspondence with which you have crawled under the laps of HDZ, it would only be dirty sex and scenes that our young people are disgusted with, and we all are. You're talking about paedophile here, you have no idea about Croatian laws. Go to the Ministry of the Interior and see what is allowed in Croatia and what is not. The age limit for consensual sex is 15 years. But this isn't your biggest intellectual and moral disgrace. And that's why, because of those like you young people, I'm telling them to be responsible in the space of their personal freedoms and not to fall for this false moralization of the greatest political failures. The political underworld should be banned from digging on anyone's cell phones and videos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115781	Okay. You see, Mr. Zekanovic, when one wrong term is used, then it pulls other wrong terms, etc. So please, please answer [[Intruder Zekanovic: And it's always my fault!]] What breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[/Intruder Zekanovic: No, it's not. He's got injuries, Mr. Simičević's injury.]] Mr. Shimičević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115782	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A colleague injured Article 238. He insults and demeans his colleague Zekanovic, and in fact everything she tried to do or what she did or what she said was condemned. So everything she's done has been done and gone to ruin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115783	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, of course, and a warning. Mr. Zekanovic, please speak nicely. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115784	Dear colleague Oreskovic, dear colleague Oreskovic of the Croatian Parliament, if you will call me here and yell at me from your place Zekanovic, then emphasize Zekanovic himself otherwise, Zekanovic just try it so little, it would be better, it sounds better to me. I don't know if you heard what you just said. You get that tape of yourself, I can take it off for you, then let it go every day and blush for the rest of your life. So, you're on one, you said disgusting, disgusting. I don't know what word to use to justify paedophilia by bringing down the border that you're saying for 15 years, on sex with consent. I have to ask, let me get a warning and you're normal? Are you out of your mind?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115785	Mrs. Vukovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115786	I thank the chairman. So, you accused your colleague Zekanovic in a very ugly way today of not making any concrete proposal, the opposition. I don't know where you belong? You can enlighten us, because I remember very well that you were part of the Homeland Movement of Miroslav Skora. We're all in opposition, and your political prostitution, please don't bring it up in front of the cameras because you're bothering this debate. And I also want to tell you that here I am, for the third time, making my concrete proposal, which is that the appeal procedure introduces the rule that second-degree council sessions are being recorded. So here you are to be ruling or want be HDZ's, please take advantage of your influence on colleagues on the left hand side of me and push through this because this proposal is here and the minister himself said it was good enough and good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115787	Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115788	Dear colleague Vukovac. Unfortunately for you or fortunately, however I wasn't here at the pay phone when the united opposition hugged and kissed and danced the kosher wheel, so I wasn't or will be a united opposition. And unlike those who are square-headed, even-earthed, who I still think with my head and believe in science and it's very important that for my sake, it's my view that the Earth is a round opposition that has given me up in the end. They said some Earth is a flat plate, we don't believe in science and that's what's important to emphasize. But I'll remind you of your interesting political path, so you're a first-class convert, so you've been to the Most, so you've been to the Homeland Movement, now you're in some righteous Croatia, but it's a legitimate colleague and you're still looking for your political happiness with Skor without Skor, along with Petrov, without Petrov, Grbino, Grmoj has all the material you want, that's legitimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115789	Thank you very much. Three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115790	Thank you, Your Honor. He's been injured. In 238, my colleague Zekanovic here spoke of a united opposition, and I have never experienced it in HS before, nor has any of the sovereigns participated in this performance that he mentioned, so that he would beg, however, to choose the terms used because Croatian sovereigns are certainly not the ruling majority as well as Mr Zekanovic, but not a united opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115791	Of course there's a warning because it was exactly that replica by definition right. Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115792	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Here is with pleasure for the third time the breach of the Rules of Procedure likely and last for today, but I am not sorry because what my colleague Zekanovic has done today is a clean circus and I believe he is satisfied because he will end up again in the media and he has fulfilled his political day and it is legitimate and he is happy and let the man be happy and should be happy. But to accuse us of being kicked out of the opposition or party because he said that the Earth is round is the bottom and a pure lie. [[Thank you, time, time./]] He lied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115793	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115794	Lie, lie, lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115795	Third reminder and confiscation of the word to the end of this point. ... Mrs. Katarina Nemet's replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115796	And now for the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115797	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, wait, wait, sit down, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115798	I thank you, Chairman. Therefore, on the basis of Rules of Procedure 238 and Article 238 respectively. No. In 238, therefore, I am really offended by Mr. Zekanovic for my political decisions. Every time I decided to change my mind, I went into politics as an independent chief, came to Mosta, and tomorrow the DP did it before the elections. and clearly explained to her voting body the reasons why I am doing it. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Super.]] What are you doing? You're prostitutes, you're looking for the trust of a party Mr. Zekanovic doesn't need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115799	Thank you, thank you, time, time, time. The warning was a replica, it was a replica, I'm not going into content, I'm not going into content. Mrs. Katarina Nemet, we're sure she'll use the right words.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115800	And now for the end, let's get back to the law. In your discussion you touched on e-Communications and the fact that it is not enough to inform us about the e-Communication system itself or we do not know when and in what cases it will be taken into account, and when it may not, and I will support it with the e-List system that digitally assigns objects, but there is the possibility of assigning the object by hand. So that's the communication that's been unspeakable for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115801	A beautiful replica will surely be a nice answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115802	Of course, I always answer and ask decent questions nicely to my colleague Nemet. Dear colleagues, so here's something that came to my eye, I didn't notice in the bill that the e-communication correspondence was explained, I think it's called, electronic correspondence, I wish it was a little better worked out. There's supposed to be some kind of rulebook and that or some regulation that's going to define it later. What concerns me is that I warned the respected minister to work here on security and that when such correspondence goes electronically, especially in today's times of cyber warfare, cybersecurity is always a potential danger. So that's what I've pointed out to the problem, and I'm warning the well-respected Proposer of the same thing once again. But here I would conclude this exposure with a simple sentence, the Earth is still round.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115803	They said the astronauts who saw her. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's microphone is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115804	I thank the president. My colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question who in this country believes HDZ will write laws to fix the judiciary? No one believes it. The 16.4% of the electoral body with which the HDZ makes the entire state simply imprisoned in a hostage crisis certainly does not give them legitimacy and without the rightful verdict of the political party for corruption. And now I'm asking another question, so after all the words of the profession, after all the comments from the opposition clubs that have indicated that it is very likely that constitutional lawsuits will arise that will challenge the constitutionality of this law. Who would that be in favor of? Who can count on the constitutional decision that will bring down the constitutionality of the provisions, who could benefit the most? That it may not be those HDZ politicians and powerful men who are currently in one of the phases of the criminal proceedings. Imagine what it would be like for them to have a judgment of power, for it will be said, and you will be judged by unconstitutional decrees. This is Croatia directed by HDZ. And speaking of these decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are also very often mentioned in these discussions outside the context, I will repeat to you Boric because memory is also repeating the wisdom of some knowledge. So, in the case of Tomislav Karamark, the decision of the commission you're always talking about has failed, the anti-corruption system in the set. And it doesn't work for Tomislav Karamark you had a chance to rehabilitate him this weekend so you didn't. Tomislav Karamarko and his object are nothing but a shield, a simple shield that protects Andrej Plenkovic from his corruption affairs and the subject of conflict of interest which will now never be questioned again because there is no authority of the body that should and may do so anymore. You keep talking about when we're talking about this case and this case, I can't accept the facts and I can't take the blame. So does HDZ accept the fact and guilt for all corruption described and legally confirmed? I don't think any of you are ashamed of the situation. And then you are even less ashamed to repeat that I am at the expense of my past work, which undeservedly entered the Croatian Parliament, is that your thesis? I know you can't accept the fact that the voters are you based on whose votes I've won my post, my mandate, and my commitment to the parliamentary benches. You cannot accept that because you need manipulations, unconstitutionally tailored electoral units and deliberately provoked, set up political affairs. For you, citizens will choose and vote in a fair way for you. So I actually need to thank you, please mention this situation with the collapse of the government of Tomislav Karamark as often as possible not to accidentally fall into oblivion, so that citizens can reward me in the same way in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115805	Don't, don't leave, I mean if you want to, but you have replicas, you'll probably want to answer. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115806	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues here now, in this final bill, it is said that, of course, not all courts are technically equipped for sound recording or here are not even mentioned in the audio-seen how they will be defined, says that the necessary funds will be provided for 15 million 952 thousand kuna for these 184 courts. It is also known that the delay was, in fact, delayed from September 1st 2023 to October 1st, 2024, it was apparent that it had to be moved by a year because not all technical work could be done. Do you think that this amount of funds is enough to get all the court's technical equipment, to make education for judges and officials, or are we going to rebalance again? It's already mentioned here that there will be a redistribution of funds for 2023 and 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115807	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115808	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. What you asked me about is whether that amount is enough isn't something that I or any of us should be guessing about. The government is in charge of making the amount properly planned. But the biggest problem is that right now we're going to introduce one provision, some rules of law that won't be allowed in the same way or made possible by everyone. We can't have courtrooms that are equipped and at the same time the ones that aren't. We can't have judges who, by discretion, will allow someone to rewrite and put something in the logs and not someone. Otherwise, we have a problem with double criteria, with laws that are not equally feasible to everyone, and now we put it explicitly into the law and thus bring the judges themselves into a very unpleasant, unpleasant situation. As for the preparation of booksellers and professional services, I have already said that it is not enough in them and financially, but also in all other ways it invests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115809	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115810	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Oreshkovic, your political action is about the negative labelling of the HDZ which is a thorn in your heel, but it is not helping you either, citizens show daily in the polls how much support they give to this government and everything it does. I wonder if you are colleagues from your party in the hostage crisis because of your colleague Ivosevic, what is happening really shows your relationship with everything and the double arches on which you act when you call us here from the ruling and when you talk about your colleagues. As long as they keep you in their hands to defend them like this, you relativize what they've done, saying, well, they've slipped a little bit, boys. So be it. correct and have the same standards for all procedures. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115811	Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115812	Thank you. My political and political and public and professional action comes down to defending the state and its citizens from the underworld, and by underground, I mean HDZ. If you want to see what I have done in this term, go to the meeting websites there is my proposal for a draft anti-corruption strategy, which includes a chapter that requires an amendment and reform of electoral legislation, as well as a change in the course of election units so that those in the next elections will be constitutional. You can also review all my amendments that your political parliamentary majority has in turn refused, without having read them at all, and each of them from law to law has concrete anti-corruption content and significance. In all these laws, I read what is wrong with the structure and organisation of a single state body and I propose how to change it, and I will do so in the next term, if I get the chance, thanks to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115813	You, too. ... Oh, I'm sorry. [[Specially enabled.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115814	Thank you. The more they attack you, the more we like you. My colleague Oreskovic, apropo, I mean this commenting constantly on this Split, I would just like to say one thing, and again it is one nettheme imposed by HDZ, but, if something in this criminal case is rightly related to this Split, it is that, that the offence was committed only by the one who published the transcripts, is it. It's criminally subject to prosecution, and everything else it's really an affair created from day to day by day by those who are trying to impose content beyond the real content that really disproves our social majority, but I'd like you to tell us here and point out once again how important this Law is. So why is this Law really fundamental in principle to general justice, therefore, in the country? If we talk at all and if we can talk about it any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115815	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115816	Of course, it's important, every country wants to get rid of its criminals, but it can't be solved by the method of what, a random finger, but it has to be done in some procedure in which all its person, moral, human, and procedural rights are guaranteed. This law does not guarantee, however, that it further creates two, two procedural problems, the first is that not all in the courtroom will be equal, depending on how technically equipped the courtroom is, and the other problem is that some criminal proceedings, perhaps those corrupt, perhaps most difficult, will be annulled because one day someone will appeal to a constitutional suit that will state the provisions of this Law are unconstitutional and invalid. But it is a processive political subjugation of the state directed by the HDZ that is always being implemented in every possible and impossible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115817	- Mrs. Crescent. Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115818	My colleagues Oreskovic, we have been talking in this Chamber for days about underpaid officials and tenants in the justice system. On the other hand, since yesterday, we have in all the media information that the Justice Minister has decided to put an end to employment through connections to the state service and has opened a tender that would fully digitise the reception process for the incredible 10.9 million kuna. What message does this send to the judiciary to its employees and tenants and whether a software will stop hiring through a link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115819	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115820	Well, it sends the same message that HDZ sends in all other areas of action and life, which is, you are all our slaves, our subjects, and choose to listen without thinking, so without including the brain that your boss tells you to do. It's a completely wrong approach to any public service, a robot can in some things speed up, facilitate and help, but it can't evaluate all the working quality, any substitute. Each of us has some of our specific skills, skills that need to be deployed well, that's the possibility of good management. But what would the political party know that has a mental set in which the physical will of the Borg is expected to be without individual values and significance?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115821	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115822	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleague Oreshkovic. [[Agreement: And now the fun part.]] If I get what you're saying now in the club's individual and name, so, the ruling majority, mostly HDZ, is doing this, then it brings this bill just to protect some powerful people because it's going to fall in the Constitutional Court. That's your thesis. Are you aware of what you said and what it's actually saying enough about you? I'd say that's before the legal ignorance you've shown again, I must say. So you should know as a lawyer, and even if this thesis that is so tense and ridiculous, I think people are laughing while they hear this, it won't change because this law, the provisions, when they are adopted, won't apply to those powers that you mention, is it, because it's not possible because it's unconstitutional. Is that unconstitutional? And this strategy you have in your drawer will have to wait when you collect a little bit more than those 0.001%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115824	Well, here it is, fellow Habib, you've said everything in your question. The anti-corruption strategy, which could actually contain corruption, will have to talk about the HDZ being removed from power, and I will repeat that this should be the first major objective of complete opposition as far as we disagree. As for these others, as you say speculations stemming from real ignorance, I'd say, do you know this moment where the law is going to apply everything and who it won't to? ... In the replica, I said that the main reason for such an impeccable law is that our minister has no experience at all in any procedural matter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are several references from your party duties he has performed, it seems to me, 8, in an official résumé, and only 5 from some of his professional and scientific careers. So much for who's got where on the basis of his personal engagement and results and credit, and who's got the party HDZ card. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115825	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115826	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you're talking about moving HDZ out of power all the time in your vocabulary, vocabulary, let's now get to your one situation and tell me do you have any moral conflicts? So you're a member of one party to take the taxpayers' funds and the political secretary of the other party to deal with politics. How much moral conflict is this? We've only had that in one case at Mr. Pernar's, we know how it ended. Does that bother you when you talk about morality? Is there any corruption? Is there something wrong? Do you consider it good? Is that a mistake of the law, Rules of Procedure, is that a person? And second of all, you're talking about your colleagues being irresponsible, irresponsible and calling them jerks. Did you want to reduce their chances of winning or losing so that you'd look better, because you really think of them as the shitheads who don't deserve to be in charge of the city of Split, and you're offering them to be. Now, answer me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115827	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115828	Now let's get a colleague. I'll fight one, two, three. The first one, as regards these two political parties, both in their statutes, have that it is allowed for members to be members of the two parties at the same time. These statutes were approved by your resolute minister, so ask him if this is morally and in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It's obvious. Let's do it under no. 2, let's take a look at your personal situation party, political whatever you want, I would really, very much like that in the situation where HDZ will not have a parliamentary majority you will be one of the MPs who will be re-elected because you are the best guarantee every time you report for word that HDZ will have fewer and less and less and less votes each time. And as far as Split is concerned, here's my privilege of being able to say honestly and openly what I think about you and them. And whether he gets a new mandate or not, it depends on the votes and voters who have their own responsibility and know well what the Party Center is up against, what few people, what few brave people, a handful of brave people against HDZ [[Intruder Radin: time.]] And your underworld is fighting even if they're unsettled 30-year-olds and jerks. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115829	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115830	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Oreshkovic, you have been part of the Croatian judiciary as a lawyer for many years, and especially at the time you were chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Now I'm wondering if you at least feel partially responsible for the situation in the judiciary and if you can tell us what you did during that period to improve the situation in some way, to improve etc., except that you occasionally extract certain items from the naphthaline when it suits you for day-to-day political purposes so that I don't know how to discredit political opponents. Here, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115831	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115832	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin, here's proof that HDZ can also ask a very high-quality and good question, the best perhaps you've ever asked me. My professional career in justice lasts 20 years, except for that public duty I was a lawyer, a lawyer. Lawyers are according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws of the Republic of Croatia the first line of defence of citizens, which is what I did my entire professional career in the best, most respected law offices. Some of those offices where I spent a decade defending our defenders, our heroes in front of The Hague, that's where I gained my knowledge, my practice. I defended the most destitute, the poorest, saddest social group, and I was proud of it, and I achieved great results as a lawyer in my law practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115833	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115834	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague as you said you got the best question, so the point is that I ask you, but here's the question. I believe you have the right to speak and your right to truly speak and express your views, but I don't think it's correct to tell the truth, so you're saying it again and again. And the thing is, at the beginning of your speech, you said, "HDZ only got 16% of the vote, and I was chosen by my voters," I don't think it's correct for you to compare 16% to 0.016% that you got, so at least it would be correct to say it. And secondly, will you write an open letter to your daughters to protect themselves from predators who are sexually in Split? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115835	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115836	Dear fellow Simičevic, I am pleased that you are reading my Face page, perhaps you will read some more and learn. Yeah, I have two daughters, and that's why I speak openly about what kind of state I want to leave behind. One of the things besides, of course, effective public administration, justice, effective justice, is what my profession is, and I want the whole social climate to be less hypocritical. And in hypocrisy I don't know if there are any more forerunners than the Pharisees, than the false Catholics, so take a look at your ranks. What's the bigger problem today? Look at how young people live, so they have their own space of personal freedoms whatever any of us thinks about it, and the worst politicians who mess with their cell phones, selfies, social networks. Well, it's a gang, a gang of colleagues, Shimičević. There's no kinder word than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115837	No more replicas, no more replicas. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115838	Yeah, I'll write them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115839	Please, please, please, please, please quietly. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac is finally on behalf of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115840	Thank you very much. Honorable chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state. I'm going to say a few words in the end about this amendment and the addition of the law. First of all, I would like to point out once again the reasons why we are bringing these amendments and additions, which is to continue the reform of the criminal procedure in terms of expanding the use of information and communication technologies, by introducing e-communication by extending the use of tone recording to all discussions in the criminal proceedings and by extending the use of the audio video link. As regards the introduction of e-Communication and further increased use of communication in the process, this required intervention in certain provisions that regulate the way of submission and the delivery itself, and was also prescribed for certain participants in the process the liability of the use of e-Communication for all state bodies, state attorneys, lawyers, court experts, court interpreters and legal persons. For other participants in the process, there is a possibility of using e-communication if they want to. And we think it's good that it certainly contributes to the acceleration of the process, and we certainly are witnessing and that in times of crisis like the Covid crisis this kind of communication certainly contributes to normalisation of relations and further work of courts. So we think that in the future it will certainly be necessary and that in this way in society, not only in the judiciary, but in general in society more or less everything will work that way. It also facilitates the application of provisions relating to the possibility of audio recording discussions, as soon as technical opportunities are achieved in all courts. However, there are already some procedures where these technological opportunities are used. We are already using audio recording where it is needed and for taking the testimony of the children as a witness. What is important to say is that this provision is also not the way that counterpart Urša Raukar used to say here that those, those parties who do not have the opportunity to simply because of the lack of funds and because of the lack of the possibility of using all these technologies simply follow the course of the proceedings because the President of the Council will always be able to allow for justified reasons to be made and to issue a copy, and also that defendant who does not have a defender will always have the opportunity to request a written dismissal. Furthermore, a mandatory recording of all the discussions since 1.10.2024 is being introduced for the reason that all courts are believed to be equipped by then and that this will then be possible. As regards the use of the audio-video link, it is also important to continue to ensure the possibility of expanding this technological achievement to respect the privacy of the parties at the council meetings and the preparatory hearings when requested and when necessary. And that possibility is also decided by the President of the Council. And these technological achievements are already being used. What was here today, as regards the opposition of the most speech and what they opposed most, and this is the introduction of a ban on double-declaration, I believe that and all that they have instructed as some sort of argument why this provision should go into third reading, I do not see as a valid reason why this actually achieves an acceleration of the procedure and I think that all those citizens who have been waiting for years to proceed. End in fact, welcome to this acceleration process [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The HDZ Club will support these changes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115841	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are now moving to the next item of the agenda and that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 264. So it is a second reading and all provisions concerning second reading apply, including that amendments are received until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic wishes to take the opening statement. Looks like he wants to, 'cause he's already here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115848	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. So, we are discussing the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Prosecution. So that I wouldn't repeat a part of the same thing that was in the morning debate, and about the Code of Criminal Procedure, why did we bring it together? In one part of the National Recovery Plan and the resilience of the same measure, we asked for financial resources both for civil, civil proceedings and criminal proceedings. These are the topics concerning sound recording of the debates, ensuring conditions for all courts in tone recording, digital technology, e-communications and all that is in fact the continuation of the judicial reform process that we started a few years ago, if one of our constituent goals and objectives but also the need and obligations as full members of the EU to reform fully and this criminal procedure that you discussed this morning. What is most important to us and the most important changes in relation to first reading, so the proposed changes and additions we introduce one big newspaper are the precise deadlines for the completion of the process. The first-degree litigation procedure will be completed within three years. Second-degree appeals courts will decide within a year. Small-value disputes will end within a year, and the appeal procedure for these disputes will last up to 6 months. The deadline for holding the preparatory hearing shall be introduced. The preparatory hearing will now have to be held within three months of the date of receipt of the response to the complaint, i.e. the expiry date for the response to the action. Following the conclusion of the preparatory hearing, the main debate will have to be held no later than six months. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will decide on a proposal for the authorisation of an audit within six months of the receipt of the proposal, and what is the difference with the current audit institute now all audits will go as audits after authorisation. We used to have those exceptions that went directly without this control. Now everything will have to go through that control and we have accepted the proposal of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Supreme Court will be obliged to adopt a review decision within two years of the date of receipt of the audit. Now we have a situation to make such a decision for up to five years. As far as proceedings in small-value disputes are concerned, disputes will normally be written, so they will no longer contain a hearing for small-value disputes. It's those things when it comes to electricity bills or something. And the big news that we haven't had so far is a process management plan. At the first hearing, the judge will define a hodogram of activities in the procedure. With this amendment, we wanted to introduce our own legal certainty, so that all parties in the process know when any action in the process will take place if, for example, there are some justified reasons or more forces that will naturally be respected and there will be some changes. So, as far as this process calendar is concerned, there was also a debate that judges are already doing so and now, however, this has not been made public so far. Now it will have to be known to all parties. We said the same thing about tone recording as the criminal procedure, I wouldn't repeat it now. As regards the revision, I also said, and what should be even better highlighted as regards the review procedures they are particularly important for the unification of judicial practice, and that it is rarely a matter of the exercise of collective rights that this procedure can now be initiated, apart from the court's proposal, also on the proposal of the parties and the interfaces. The final draft of the law deletes the provisions on the suspension of proceedings for the purpose of trying a peaceful solution, which is the difference compared to the first reading, that is, Art. 186.f. and sir, it is to prevent the attempt to stay calm from slowing down the ongoing litigation process, but to end it within the legally prescribed time limit. The proposed changes are a step in strengthening citizens' trust in the judiciary because their adoption of citizens will have quick and digitalised procedures, as well as modernised procedures. We suggest HS accept changes and additions to the CAP, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115849	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vidovic Kristo's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115850	Judicial counsellor Ana Santini, and later Judge Andrija Krizak from the Civil Court in Zagreb enabled EOS Matrix on 9 April '21. Delegating the mother of two children, Zagreb's Katarina Kovacevic from her apartment, the apartment was sold, and 7 months later, here's the document, the County Court in Zagreb annulled the decision on dissuading. I personally wrote to you about cases like this, but you from the Ministry of Justice have disobeyed and you claim the truth that you are not competent, and yes, you consciously benefit from the greening profits of banks and interest agencies, and knowingly do harm to Croatian citizens, your executive law, and the conduct of your judges as the said Criminal is against the constitution and against the law, but you are inexorably doing injustice to ordinary people. Are you aware that you as a ministry and those courts commit crimes, are you aware that you will have to answer for these crimes and are aware that you will be ashamed of your environment and that you will be ashamed of your children for committing such an injustice?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115851	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115852	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I hope you're also aware of what you just said to me. So the executive law that we have changed several times, unlike other European countries, we have completely turned to the side of the perpetrators. As far as the agencies you mentioned are concerned, the agencies need to be regulated by special laws, it is true that there are certain legal gaps, but for this relationship of creditors and debtors, I think this government has done more than any other government has done in the past three terms. Now that you're calling us for the crimes of your address to the Ministry of Justice and the administration isn't exactly what you say, we've reacted, but if you're aware of that, and I don't know that you're a lawyer or you understand the right, so can't the Minister of Justice, nor can anyone from the cabinet of the minister call the judges and say what kind of independent procedure a decision should be made. We reacted in that case and asked to get information when it comes to these social cases, we got an answer and you can get that answer to the insight without any problems, without any shame or shame on our part, at least, that's where we understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115853	Thank you. Mr. Bourkan, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. - Mrs. Crescent. Caroline Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115854	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, don't insult me, so this is a specific case, and you're answering with the flossulas, you're not here to document me, you're here to give me an argument, to deny if something is incorrect, the decision to make, and then the decision to have no occupancy after the woman has been kicked out of the apartment and after the apartment has been sold. These cases happen daily, and you, what you do, deceive the Croatian public with your flossules and your cheap demagogy and manipulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115855	Thank you, thank you very much. It was a replica, you get a warning, it's a third warning that includes taking away words until the end of the debate of this point of course. Let's move on, this Mr. Jure Burke.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115856	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, amendments and additions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ZPP goes exactly as you have stated in an explanation that parties get a sense of certainty i.e. predictability of the course and completion of the procedure. One of my main changes and additions to this law is that deadlines are prescribed in which first-degree and second-degree courts must end the procedure. This goes in a way to encourage judges who manage the procedure to influence other participants in their timely decisions and actions. In addition to prescribing deadlines, are there any other elements of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ZPP that give judges even greater opportunity to encourage all judicial disputes to end within the deadlines set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115857	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115858	Thank you. Dear MPs, therefore, these deadlines are aimed at speeding up the case resolution and the backlog of those cases that have accumulated. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia has a lot of problems with violations of the right to a reasonable period of time, so these changes, both in this litigation and in criminal proceedings, have gone to some decent level. We cannot directly punish judges for breaking these deadlines, but we can legally direct the court to those deadlines that we consider to be realistic and possible to do so. You know that we have changed the Law on Courts, that we have given the judges new framework criteria, that even in one, in one public communication we have received certain pucks because of what we are doing, but without the cooperation of the judicial and executive authorities, all branches of the government, there is no serious reform, so when it points to the judiciary it points only to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, but really real reform must be all these independent institutions together and thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115859	Mr. Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115860	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, in the context of the procedure for renewing the file because it had been lost or damaged and welcoming the article. 16th and 17th in the context of mandatory tone recording, the issue is very simple. When or what is some sort of extreme limit when you plan to completely switch to digital and put aside this paperwork because it will be cheaper, more efficient and everything else that goes with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115861	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115862	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it would be good to have it today and tomorrow, but here's a big process where every courtroom has to be technically equipped. That's why we're running for EU funds at the NPOO and the plan is based on what's up to 2024. to make this happen, but as far as the changes here are concerned, they're academic, and this is where the shooting becomes mandatory. We are not running away from this written transcript now, therefore, but rather leading to a step-by-step habitation of people, parties to proceedings and citizens and judges and lawyers to move into a fully digitised system. We can't do it overnight, that there's trouble, there's, we're aware of it. We've seen other countries' experiences, I don't think in some parts of these laws there's too much need for some major politicisation and contention because this one, I think, is our common goal for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115863	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115864	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State according to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan before us today is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. We heard in the debate that even a good part of the opposition welcomes the changes that will be made today, which certainly says that the law is well prepared and essentially goes towards achieving its purpose and goal, which is a faster and more effective judiciary and a more effective judicial system for all citizens of our country. For this reason, I would not repeat all the newspapers as you have said that we could hear during the first reading, but I would therefore ask you to explain one part that may have proved to be problematic in the first reading, which is related to the tonic recording or copying. Is there a picture created that essentially the transcription will be no more, which is actually not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115865	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115866	Thank you very much. You yourself said the benefits of these changes. As I said to the honourable representative, that tone recording does not go at this time but when technical conditions are met and when the Minister of Justice decides that the technical conditions are met. As far as this copy is concerned, at the request of the party, they must agree that there is no copy, and if the party asks for a copy, it will receive it. So what we had as a disadvantage that persons of weaker property status would not be able to participate in the same amount in a fair procedure with equal rights is not true. So, at the request of the party transcript will be obtained. We aim at changing that there is a certain risk, but it is common risk for some modernisation of the process in that objective of modernisation but also for the shorter duration of the procedure without too much paper. We visited Estonia, saw how it worked there. I mean, it might be some of our best examples, but there are other countries that did this step by step. Now it's us today, tomorrow it's gonna be someone else, but it's the future of the judicial system as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115867	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115868	Thank you. It seems to me that all these amendments to the law are tailored to monitor the need to withdraw funds from European funds rather than with a view to speeding up litigation procedures. In fact, you here have prescribed strict deadlines in which courts need to make their decisions, and that can somehow be the first to appear as a promised country to those who want a faster and more effective judiciary, but there is a problem, so I'm asking you now. Have you even analyzed what the procedural problems resulting from the length of court proceedings and the possible actions that this process is stalling? And how did you remove these problems by chopping up your deadlines like this? That doesn't come from the reasons of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115869	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115870	Thank you. Your Honor, you're a lawyer, you know that we don't know how this measure will affect the future in view of the framework we've set. So, the task force, members of our task force, we analyzed everything on your first question how, why and why, now whether it suits you or not I don't know. I think they did it professionally and independent people aren't infected with politics, they're infected with the profession and we'll see in the time ahead whether it's good or not. Without deadlines, it's not safe. With, the truth is, there's no punishment here for breaking deadlines, there's no strict procedure for this, but we're giving some frame. If it turns out that changes are needed, we'll definitely do it. You know that we can't say in every case strictly that it will last for 3 years or a year, there are certain items that need a lot more time. I think this is a good change and a step forward in relation to the system we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115871	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115872	My dear secretary, I have a few questions. The first question at which stage are the public tenders for the procurement of recording equipment in courts, the execution of court works and training of court employees? The second question, are you aware that Article 13 actually limits judges in a way that they must have a precise record, which states that the contribution will be a tone record. There's no way in the law that there's a possibility of a different record. And thirdly, you said just before your colleague that there would be a contribution if someone asked for it, that it would actually be a transcript or that it would be a transcript. Who's gonna make that transcript and who's gonna pay for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115873	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115874	Thank you very much. It will be done by those who do it now as far as the transcription is concerned. But I said, you've been following all this since this morning, so it's not tone recording from now on, the tone recording will go in phases when the technical conditions are met. You're asking me what stage the contests are in, I said they're funds that retire until 2024 under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. So, it won't cross over, the system stays as it is right now with, until the technical conditions are met that he will be able to move on to this. So now we're talking 2022 about two years ahead of us. So there aren't any hidden clutches, nor have we brought the judges into a situation that they'll have to do something they won't be able to do in the litigation process. Part of these changes were done by judges of all levels of courts from the lowest to the highest and those involved in litigation, experts, you understand. When we look for members of the task force, we invite the presidents of the courts to say which experts they want inside. We didn't do this on our own. This is not a political product, this is a product and professions and courts. Some are demands, we have reluctantly accepted some demands, but we have accepted them as demands of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115875	Thank you. Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115876	I'm interested in how many courts we have at this point that can technically comply with this law, which we're discussing here today, and you said that you're planning for all the technical conditions in all the courts to be possible by 2024, so I'm wondering how much would that be, or how much you're planning to do, and you expect it to cost all of this together?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115877	It's in the first stage respected...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115878	Take it easy, the answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115879	Thank you, Vice President. In the first phase, some 50 million kunas are foreseen. In these stages until 2024 it's going to be a lot more, I at this point that, that framework I don't know because for the judiciary it's pretty big. As to which courts they now fulfil these conditions, we do not have them entirely under these conditions. Now we've got courtrooms that can only meet the conditions for audio-universative audio recording. It's in the biggest courts. Therefore, in order for this measure to be implemented, these are indicators that have to be met towards the EU otherwise no funding, all courts must be equipped. We've taken some devices like... to record discussions in courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There we have had certain plus and certain minuses and so, and now in the future it's all fixed and not going over to any system without the Ministry of Justice deciding that the system is ready for it. For the sake of safety and for the purpose of not jeopardising some kind of transparency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115880	Replica of the esteemed MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115881	I thank the chairman. I am of the opinion that, in these amendments, the court should add that when deciding on a contractual relationship is required by official duty, it should be kept in mind that the contractual relationship is invalid if it is attached to the file. For the time being, the provision of integrity applies only on the basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations, but not on the basis of the Law on Procedural Procedure, and courts often disregard that duty. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115882	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115883	Thank you very much. Dear MPs can discuss these procedural problems, we are aware that there are. I believe that in good faith you would support these legislative changes that I think are good and necessary. You're the same lawyer, and you understand that in some things we can't make a move at the same time, but I'm sure if we go back to some mandates before and some even governments before and this one that we've made, not this government but the past and past, we won't offend anyone, a major shift in this procession. We are concerned that we are being tortured more that these litigation procedures and civil proceedings are being conducted for 27 years and that the court is still inequitable. It's our common goal to stop it. These are the changes that will lead to this. These things you ask are also a question for courts and judges because in some things we do not have direct tools to influence the independence of judicial judgment and judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115884	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115885	The Honorable State Secretary on the Law itself will be an opportunity to debate but what would you like to get in response to what we're going to do with the personnel structure? How do we define the future rights of judicial advisors we know to be underpaid? What about the D.A.P.D., what about the bookies? And now I don't list all those people who make up part of the court, and we know that they're seriously underpaid especially when we know what kind of crisis we're living in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115886	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115887	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have had quite a good and constructive debate on our Committee on Justice which you chair, we are aware of the problems of low wages in the system, and the minister said in his public address that this system of the Law on Salaries until 2023 and that changes should be seen and I personally advocate it, and I think that this is too little for people to have 3.5-4,000 kunas. As for the judicial police in the prison system, they still have a slightly higher average salary because they have a 30% supplement and work under certain difficult conditions, and these salaries are not even, they are more than 7,000 kuna, and some are 9,000 on average, but they are specific conditions. What is our common goal and we will do, we will correct that justice or injustice so far by correcting this new law. It's very hard to do what you say day and night because there's a lot of people you need to please. You can't one side yes, the other you can't. I think it's going to be one positive change that we're going to need for another year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115888	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, will speak to the respected representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115889	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, we can agree that Croatians have been devastated by scientists. The system did not devastate or exist in it anyone who did not know anything in the quotes. Because the people of the profession have brought over a situation where we've been changing this law for the last 10 years four times. We might as well say that this country has been led by workers to ask if it would be in this state, whether these laws are in this state, although we welcome this one in some kind of change and all I'm going to say is not a product of my knowledge, because it's not my profession, but it's someone who's in the profession and all that I'm going to apostrophetiate would want to take it well on purpose, so if you recognize something that can possibly be used because they're always smarter men and asses, and I accept at this stage that I'm a donkey this would be good. Therefore, Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The law on litigation of litigation is more or less clear to all that it regulates the rules on the procedure on which the court discusses and decides on disputes, fundamental rights and obligations of litigation parties, on personal and family relations, on working relations, on commercial, property and other civil proceedings, if the law does not stipulate that the court solves any of these disputes by the rules of any other procedure. Which such a case is we will agree on the particular interest of all citizens because it represents one procedural guarantee of the equality of citizens before the law as well as the party before the court. The upcoming amendments to that law, as I said, will be 4 more extensive changes in the last 10 years, so on average one of the most important procedural laws in the country is changed once in 2.5 years. And it is precisely because of such frequent changes that the work of resolvers is made more difficult in a litigatory procedure, so judges and court advisers because resolutionrs do not arrive in fact or adapt to one change, and each other has already arrived. We can freely say that a form of instability of such main procedural laws certainly leads to the instability of procedures and legal uncertainty. It should be pointed out that, by law on litigation, it is also applied in a number of other procedures, hence land-based, executive, bankruptcy, out of litigation, and with its six amendments, it is practically changing these procedures itself, which is certainly not what we should be one form of work of this Parliament and the proposing itself in the future. Therefore, Articles 16 and 17, as I have commended in my own replica, the introduction of mandatory tone recording is necessary. We will agree with that all of us who are laymen or donkeys and all those who are in the system who are known. It often happens in practice that not everything the parties in the procedure have said or written in an incorrect way, and by recording it in tone it will be disabled because the tone of the video can be reproduced at any time, of course, to listen, to see about where the bush lies. It should be pointed out that the application of that provision will require large financial investments in all courts because it will be necessary to enable the technical possibilities of courts which currently do not exist. Examples and older computers with no cameras, no audio recorders, installation of new programs, etc. etc. While in the infrastructure itself, so some courts or a large majority of courts in the Republic of Croatia, I don't think we should speak at all, but it's not directly the fault of this today's portfolio, but we can say that it's actually the guilt of one whole form of neglecting the infrastructure itself in this area, even much earlier than our country's independence. Therefore, Articles 40 and 41 of the introduction of a management plan, so a new management plan is being introduced. The management plan would normally determine the court's decision at the first hearing in the procedure. It would contain a summary of disputed facts and legal issues, evidence to identify disputed facts, time-limits for obtaining evidence, time-limits for submitting written indications of parties, etc. etc. In the opinion of those working in this system, the Institute considers that no more significant changes will be made as the court has, until now, had to establish at the first hearing, decide on the evidence and the facts, and, after the preliminary procedure has been completed, set up a hearing for the main debate. The fact that all the abovementioned court will write in the solution does not contribute to the acceleration or simplification of the procedure, and it is unnecessary to burden the resolver with additional action. Therefore, it is not clear what the purpose of the plan is, therefore, to manage the procedure especially when it is proposed in the amendments that the court may subsequently and change it even without the parties’ statements if it does not affect the deadlines for the parties' actions in the procedure resulting in the Court’s decision not to be bound by a further procedure. As regards the deadlines in which the courts are required to end the proceedings, that is, Article 28, 51, 67, 68. Those provisions suggest that the litigation procedure before a first-degree court must be terminated within three years of the application. The appeal procedure must be terminated within a year of the receipt of the complaint at the second instance court. The Supreme Court is obliged to decide on a proposal for the authorisation of an audit within 6 months of the receipt of that proposal, while the Supreme Court is obliged to decide on the revision within 2 years of the date of receipt of the audit. The objections to these proposals are that there is no legal consequence in the event of failure to comply with those deadlines, which could make these provisions a dead letter on paper which often knows about us in Croatia and therefore be a rule for the sake of a particular smutty I would dare to say work in all systems, and especially in the one that is directly reflected, so on the life of an individual. It should be pointed out that it is unclear how these deadlines are defined and why they are unique for all types of litigation proceedings when it is clear that not all proceedings are equally legal and factually complex, nor are all courts equally burdened. There is a difference in the burden of the judge at the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb compared to the judge in a small town, and the proposed deadlines are equal to or less for all. We think it should be prescribed more precisely. For different types of litigation, appropriate time limits should be laid down, for example, three years before the first-degree courts for most proceedings, and for some proceedings too short. And final. Therefore, the introduction of unlawful evidence in a litigation procedure is therefore the case of Article 32 of the proposed amendments. That proposal does not stipulate what is considered illegal evidence, nor is it prescribed by the current version of the CAP, so we believe that it is necessary to clearly specify what is considered illegal evidence. And final Article 90 to 93, that is, redefining the Institute of the View Procedure. It is proposed to extend the circle of authorised applicants who may propose to schedule meetings of the judicial department to discuss the assumptions for the submission of a proposal for the opening of the review procedure to the Supreme Court for a solution to issues relevant for the uniform application of law. Until now, the review procedure before the Supreme Court could only be initiated by the court, and now it is proposed that the same court can initiate the party's proposal in... I think that this institute is still under-determined, it is not at all prescribed who is sending a proposal to initiate the review procedure to the Supreme Court, so whether it is an individual judge, whether it is a council, which is the role of the session in the initiation of the procedure, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, unsettled by the current law, and then by these very changes, so there remains one quite vagueness in this part. So it would be from this court counselor who does this every day, and here's a little help, so here's what you'd do for us, and we'd appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115890	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representative, Željko Sačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115891	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Well, right now, we can say that this Final Proposal for the Law on Change and Completion of the ZPP is an important better solution, in fact an acceptable solution to what they presented to us 4-5 hours ago, and to what, with justification, we all raised our voice against first of all, building our decisions on, on, on, on the authority of the scientific expert thought or high, the case-laws of our supreme and high courts. Why am I saying that? Why am I doing that? Because we want to tell you that what we recognize as good, as impenetrable in the interest of Croatian citizens, we will commend. It's actually every common opposition and that, that's not at all a problem to say and admit this is good, we're going to support this, what's not good we're not going to do and because we're not going to give arguments about it. Now, if we weren't in the circle, you had the opportunity to hear from colleagues Kujundzic that the court advisor was anonymous, thank him, gave him an insight, so surely this praise is worth this, praises valuable material that describes things on the inside and should be given meaning and read, but we will thus read and base our impressions on our own experiences to say that we love and love it terribly and that we support the fact that you have installed not only instructive but very binding deadlines for our first-degree and second-degree judgments in small-value disputes, for audit procedures, you have introduced a model of the review procedure also and a whole series of details of the greatest actually stepping out to implement here in our daily trial and reaching information communication technologies that are only a matter of technique to install them, but the money is assured that we have been able to see it, just means to carry out a certain amount of time to 60 days of time, so that you didn't realize that you't understand it correctly, that you't have to 60 days of time, that you't have to be able to be able to do it properly, or to do it, but to make it in 60 days before. So there's this whole series, now that I'm not going to go into all the details, as a party and I've been in several of these proceedings and the defendant and the prosecutor in civil proceedings, and I know that it's going to be very well exploited by our hardworking and hardworking judges and judges in litigation proceedings, and it's all going to contribute to a speedy, speedy trial and there's justice for each of us. Here you have installed a provision on easier delivery of letters in accordance with the legal acquis of the EU and the European Parliament and the European Council of 2020, this is the same harmonisation that does not waste too much time by engaging our consulates, etc., all of this expensive, our natural persons, legal, natural persons above all who are a specific craftsman's profession, doctors, craftsmen and I don't know how to deal with certain activities, you have committed to being implemented, to be involved within a period of a year in this information-protected system, and in any case as the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, we will give our vote for this proposal because we believe that those objections which, which are nevertheless minor in relation to the benefits we expect, and on you, this is the 4-5 changes, it is up to you to follow and, and to think also about the adoption of some consolidated text of the law, that these are now not easier to be made available to the students. Here I wish you success in your work and as much as possible, in the shortest time of your litigation. Prof. Triba would be happy to be with us today, but that's our debt to them. Cheers, bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115892	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will speak the esteemed representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115893	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State. So, we're talking about the final draft law on amendments and additions to the CAP, and the first thing to be said is that these changes that took place in relation to the first reading of the language and nomotechnical nature. Some practitioners say that frequent changes to the law, especially those which, procedural laws, are not good for judicial practice, and according to some interpretations even contribute to the length of the proceedings. The basic procedural law changes on average every 2-3g. And in that period, there is actually no way to bring court practice into line, and that is what practitioners do not like. However, as citizens say, citizens say that trust in the judiciary is very low and that it is often being questioned about what long-term procedures contribute to, so that this intention to reduce the length of the procedure is something that, which we all look forward to if it really does happen and certainly needs to be put to an end or shortened the duration of the procedure because it is an unforgivable prerequisite for restoring citizens' trust in the judiciary. This should be achieved by prescribing deadlines in which first-degree and second-degree courts are required to end the proceedings and this should result in the incentive of judges who manage the procedure to influence other participants in their timely decisions and actions. One part of the profession was, in fact, the introduction of instructive deadlines in which the cases at all stages of the trial should be completed in fact considered also problematic, as I said in some of the provisions of the ZPP, and the profession points out that this did not lead to a major acceleration in the conduct of labour disputes, on the other hand, if the judge achieves results which are prescribed framework criteria for the work of judges and failed to resolve all cases within the prescribed period of instruction will not be able to talk about the disorderly conduct of the judicial duty. It remained in the air and somewhat unclear to what criteria the proposed deadlines were set uniquely for all proceedings independent of the type of case, its factual and legal complexity, party behaviour, and court proceedings. It is not clear whether the legal consequences in the case of failure to comply with those deadlines are clear, and it would be important to clarify the application and relationship of the proposed deadlines in the procedures in which the PPP is applied, for example in the executive case as to how the proposed deadlines are, in fact, affected by the termination of proceedings for which the court cannot take action in the procedure. These questions, like I said, somehow stayed in the air. The step is certainly in the direction of restoring trust is safe and modernization or digitisation, and it is definitely affected by the crown that has kind of accelerated this whole process. Digitalisation also draws on the economicity and rationality of the proceedings, thus reforming the litigation process is based on the implementation of mandatory tone recording, the arrangement of small-value proceedings, as well as on the rule of written procedure and timetables for ending proceedings at a particular instance of the trial. The arrangement of the above creates a new methodology of working in the conduct of court proceedings and their concentration, strengthens the procedural discipline of all participants, and facilitates the work of judges in significant savings on work material. Of course, all of this also affects the transparency of the process, which certainly was missing at certain stages of the procedure. As a feature of this story is the intention of introducing a tone recording of discussions in a litigation procedure that requires large investments in courts at all levels, but should also enable parties to use tonne recordings, especially if there is no copy of the minutes. The debate at a distance is significantly easier to carry out in trade courts where disputes are conducted between legal persons where, as a rule, party representatives and lawyers, but the question arises as to how this will be done in a classic litigation procedure where parties without lawyers often appear, parties who do not have technical opportunities to participate in a debate at a distance and certainly have to take into account the right of parties to access to a court. Digitalisation would be, for example, a complete abandonment of the paper form of court files and the introduction of an integrated electronic file, which is a huge certainly judicial reform. So, we've heard about the viewing sample since 2019. when this institute was introduced and which did not quite live in the way it was originally imagined, the Supreme Court has adopted only 3 proposals for the initiation of the review procedure from 2019 to today. In order to encourage more frequent use of this institute as particularly important for the unification of judicial practice, part of the provisions has been redefined in such a way that the procedure can be initiated both on the proposal of the Court and on the proposal of the parties and the interfaces. It is good, in that sense, that an extended range of possible applicants is a good solution, but the fact that an extended composition of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's council allows for the initiation of the procedure is also a decision. Some changes to judges who are not good business organizers will make them become because they are running their own procedural calendar and the judge will have to plan his work, but at the first hearing, a hodogram of activities and what is prescribed for him is what must be contained in it. According to the proposed amendments, the extended Supreme Court Council of 13 judges would therefore decide on a disputed issue and thus there would be legal understanding which would then apply lower levels of courts or, for example, in disputes with the State's attorney's office, could go to the conclusion of the settlements. This would reduce the costs of the process, but would speed up the resolution of a larger number of cases and could certainly contribute to a faster settlement of litigation. Either way in the last 30 years. We have changed this law many times, sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse, but as we see in the very proposal for amendments and additions, the Proposer has somehow passed as an option to adopt a completely new Law on Prosecution and therefore, as such has not ruled out. Yet many of the benefits of this Act and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115894	In the name of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115895	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the last few amendments, the CAP has been changed with the aim of overcoming the identified problems in its application and with the aim of making civil protection as effective as possible, especially for functionalisation, acceleration and reduction of the costs of the litigation process. Both these amendments and additions aim to further improve civil law protection and comply with EU rules. Faced with the extraordinary circumstances caused by the crisis caused by the pandemic Covida-19 and by the change of circumstances and the way the whole world had to adapt to the new circumstances, the digitalisation of the judiciary becomes imperative in order to ensure an effective litigation process. The digitisation of the procedure will reduce the number of pending cases in courts in the Republic of Croatia, but possible traps should also be foreseen through individual digital practices that may lead to infringement of the right to a fair procedure. Furthermore, despite the legislator's efforts to speed up court proceedings, it is doubtful how much longer it will take to achieve that goal. Namely, it is necessary to leave the paper form of the court files and introduce deadlines for the judge, all of which requires adjustment and time. The proposal for an amendment introduces an obligation to quickly resolve the old cases which started before 1 April 2013 where no first-degree ruling has been reached until the entry into force. It is not quite clear how that date was chosen or explained how it would now become a possible thing that has not been done so far, so we ask the Ministry which are the specific measures which could be credible to ensure that such a goal is achieved. We also point out that the annual inflow of new litigation disputes in Croatia cannot explain a large number of unresolved disputes in the Croatian judiciary contrary to what is often suggested in the public. EU statistics show that the annual number of newly launched litigation disputes relative to the number of judges in Croatia is significantly lower than on average in other EU member states. This suggests that it is not a problem in the number of litigation cases but in the productivity of the judicial system. We therefore propose that the President of the Court of Justice must submit a reasoned report to the Competent Ministry and the President of the Supreme Court, in the event that these extreme deadlines are exceeded, with an assessment of whether there are reasons for the launch of the restrictive proceedings, and, if not, what other causes should be removed in order to achieve a reasonable trial? The same report should be submitted by the Presidents of the Court in all disputes that the Republic of Croatia has lost due to infringement of the right to a reasonable trial. In the present situation, a number of unfair trials occur, which is confirmed by court rulings, damages to the country's reputation and generates budgetary costs. Such a situation must not be acceptable and the causes and responsibilities should be determined after each deduction of such a dispute. A major role in shortening the length of court proceedings is also a comprehensive revision of procedural regulations. In this regard, we propose that the Ministry form far broader professional teams than before, composed of practitioners of judges, lawyers, academics and experts of the Ministry to revise these procedural regulations with the aim of increasing their functionality and simplification, but certainly with respect to fundamental human procedural rights. When initiating a tone recording of discussions in a litigation procedure, in order for such a solution to work, it is necessary to fully equip courts at all levels, but also to allow parties to have the opportunity to use those recordings. It should be pointed out that all this requires additional funds and the preparation of judges, lawyers and parties. Also, the draft Justice Development Strategy published by 2027, as well as other recent legislative proposals do not provide for systematic steps in this direction. So we wonder when we can expect such a reform. When holding a hearing at a distance, as proposed by these amendments and additions, it is necessary to take into account that all parties do not have technical opportunities to participate in the debate at a distance, i.e. all parties have to ensure that they have equal access to the court. In order not to reverse the application of the remote hearing, the proposal should retain the use of commercial platforms until new ones are developed under the Ministry's rules. The novelty that we can welcome, which the legislator states is also the objective of amending and supplementing the CAP, of modernising the litigation process as a whole, as well as of looking at the prevention of surprise decisions, i.e. decisions modified by appeal on the basis of a new legal assessment of the dispute, which is significantly different from the legal assessment discussed in the procedure and which the conscientious and caring party could not reasonably foresee. Finally, although the intention and objective of these amendments and the addition of the CAP is to speed up court proceedings, since a whole series of additional and preparatory adjustments need to be implemented, this acceleration will certainly not take place for the next 5 or more years. In addition, since the original law already has a number of amendments and additions to legal certainty, the Social Democrats Club continues to consider it necessary to access the new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115896	In the name of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115897	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the reasons for the amendments and the addition of the CAP, as the applicant states, stems from the need to regulate the rules of litigation under national law in the context of the continued improvement of the civil protection system. It is good that the main discussions are recorded in the introduction of only important parts of the facts of the parties, as well as the proposed evidence and evidence in the report of the hearings held before the Court of First Instance. The first proposal I made and through the replica is that these amendments should be added that the court, when deciding on a contractual relationship, is obliged to keep an eye on the integrity of this contractual relationship if it is annexed to the file, and the provisions on nullity so far apply only under the Law on Mandatory Relations, and not on the basis of the CAP, so courts often ignore that duty. In this respect, I point to the intervention and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that in its audit decisions it abolishes both a first-degree and a second-degree decision precisely because lower-level courts did not, under official duty, pay attention to the integrity of the contractual relationship. This is particularly important because it is the EU's right to protect consumers that obliges us to do so. Namely, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has recently concluded, since 11 March 2022, that it is the obligation of the Court of Justice to carry out the procedure on the basis of executive documents which have not passed the judicial control, I am talking about the debtors, the public notary and executive documents, about the solemnised public documents, by official duty, to verify the non-compliance of contract provisions. It is therefore absolutely logical that, when courts in litigation decide on the claimant's claims in the explanation, they clearly state which provisions of contractual relations are prescribed and what the Court's understanding is, whether the contractual relationship is covered by nothing itself. This will, among other things, strengthen public perception of the transparent and responsible work of the courts themselves. Similarly, although this should be a rule of profession, if not for parties represented by lawyers, it is certainly for the judges who judge the ZPP to work on the content of the arguments of court decisions and on the uniformity of the arguments of the court decisions themselves. In fact, when the decisions of the EU court or of the European Court of Human Rights are read, then the decision-making process is quite clear. In the reasons for our judgments, it is often lagging behind. Very often decisions are incomprehensible in such a way that it is often unclear what material law the court has applied on a case-by-case basis and what facts it has found in the course of the proceedings to make a certain decision. And in this bill, I regret that we did not take advantage of the opportunity and in the appeal procedure introduced a rule that the meetings of the second-degree councils were recorded or that the parties would be at least 8 days before the meeting of the councils which decided on the complaint was notified through the e-communication system that a session of the Board of Appeal was scheduled and thus allow them to monitor the meetings of the Boards of Appeal through appropriate audio visual devices. The use of audio visual devices should also be equated because so far the courts are using publicly available free remote maintenance services, and then there is no uniformity in the transmission. The decision on the appeal depends most often on the presentation of the rapporteur’s judge on the case, and direct participation by audio visual devices at the meetings of the Board of Appeals allows for an important achievement of the principle of public hearing in both the appeal procedure and, where appropriate, the direct participation of parties in the appeal procedure if it is found necessary to request clarification of certain parts of the appeal. As regards the audit procedure itself before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, it should be regulated that the parties, together with a proposal for the authorisation of the audit, are to submit and audit, as this would simplify the procedure before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, although the digitisation of the audit system was introduced after the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia allowed the submission of the audit to return to the delivery of first-degree courts, which ultimately creates unnecessary new actions of the judicial administration at which additional time is then wasted. I would point out that it is good to specify the time limit within which the Supreme Court should decide on a proposal for the authorisation of an audit, so within 6 months. However, I draw attention to the fact that individual proposals for the authorisation of audits and audits await dispatch to first-degree courts often and for more than 90 days. As regards the availability of judicial practice for the purpose of declaring the audit, the biggest problem is the publication of decisions by the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia. I note that no decision by the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia made during the period from 2020 to 2021 is available through the search engine of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, in 2021, only 70 decisions of the High Court of Commerce which mainly concern decisions taken only in 2013 and 2014, should also be carried out in this respect by the Ministry of Administration and the Justice to determine whether there are real, material or possibly personnel problems, or whether there is a lack of urgency in the services themselves. It is noted that the decisions are available through commercial search engines, but are not available through a judicial practitioner of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Several sentences on small-value disputes, given that this proposal amends and complements the Law on a litigation procedure, provides for courts to make decisions without having a direct discussion in small-value disputes, which I consider to be a particularly bad solution, in particular in cases or in cases where the parties are consumers. In particular, the courts have a duty to refer the party to the need for professional legal assistance, which is not possible without the need for a direct debate before the court. In the case of a claim for the protection of collective interests and rights, therefore, although these amendments do not alter the provisions concerning the protection of collective interests and rights, I would like to point out that groups of parties cannot use this type of remedy before courts. It is certainly micro, small entrepreneurs, free professions and farmers. In all the laws in which certain types of entrepreneurs are covered by a special regulatory body such as CNB, HANFE, AZTN, HACOM and the like, provisions should also be introduced to enable entrepreneurs to initiate claims for the protection of collective interests and rights. In the light of the view procedure, in order to resolve the issue of a single application of law, this is the way the review procedure is envisaged in order to tackle the issue of universal application of law is neither practical nor life-threatening. The review procedure should be regulated that each court, as an example of the possibility of addressing the Court of Justice of the EU, in order to assess the conformity of proceedings itself initiates the procedure before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, because such a proposed solution will never become part of the judicial procedure. First, the judge would have to apply to the President of the Court, and then the President of the Court decides to call the judicial department, although in practice, the presidents of the judicial department are calling for meetings. In some major courts there are several judicial departments, etc., so a good idea here was extremely standardized, which is completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115898	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have an important law, amendments to the CAP, and we do not have to stress how important this is because this law regulates in fact the largest part of those proceedings that are actually conducted in front of Croatian courts and those related to property cases and those related to working-law cases and those related to commercial cases, so that is the majority of the cases that happen in Croatian courts at all. And that's why this law is extremely important and the particular objective of the law is actually seen when all these standards are analysed which are there, the purpose and purpose of the law is to make these procedures faster and in fact allow for modern technologies to accelerate the practice of our judges. In any case, I'd say, about the entire judiciary, we still have a problem with slow decision-making, these procedures know still today this, long term, it gives birth to one mistrust, and that mistrust is actually giving birth to a bad perception of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, and there we are spinning in a circle that's hard to get out of, but what's very important to say is that we have a huge, large number of cases in our courts because when we look at the courts about a million and 200 thousand cases a year, it's really a lot. If two citizens participate in each case and it turns out that more than half of the citizens come to Croatian courts each year, and that's really something that should actually be detected, not as many as these judges with so many cases are doing, they usually solve more than what they receive because 10 and a half years ago we had millions of outstanding cases, now it's somewhere on the level, I think, about 400 thousand. We need to see in fact what these cases are about, each in their own segment, and then it all comes to the courts, and that's why we have the perception that it's about a judiciary that's the cancer of the Croatian society, and I don't really think it's a real picture. In the judiciary, a really large number of cases are dealt with annually, very often these are very complex, not uniform, but very complex, and it really takes this, a lot of work to do on them, to find this solution. The objective of this Law I really think is good, the solving of the case needs to be accelerated, it needs to be made possible by the legislative authority, by the executive authorities, all that is actually possible for courts to help solve these things. Digitalization, modernization, it's inescapable today in all segments, and now that we actually look at what it's done a few years ago, I think it's still a good foundation for us to believe that tomorrow is going to get better and it's going to be faster. We already have electronic communications in the judiciary today, so today the parties are communicating with the court by electronic means, so there's no paper. We already have debates at a distance today, is whether, where no parties have to come to court, especially it is done in commercial courts and now that we would actually look at everything that goes on in the courts, this whole country's book process is pretty digitized, I belong to a generation that had to order a ZK excerpt and wait for it for a month, two days, and today you actually do it on a computer from your office or today register a company from your office or an office of someone else and actually the thing is very fast. So there are already certain good references that the judiciary has and needs to work on today, and they need to be perfected. All these newspapers that the law offers, I don't see anything controversial in them, we're going to support them as the HDZ Club, we're also glad to introduce the deadlines of conduct, I don't think I can be this one, other than instructive because the objects are really different. Someone and these deadlines should be seen as those deadlines, work on making decisions before. It's a big newspaper. It's really a big newspaper. It's a tone of this discussion. That tone recording should be taken, and I also think with the Judicial Academy to arrange for the judges and participants of this, to be educated because it changes completely in principle access to the case. Today, we have a situation where the judge dictates what the witness or another participant said and then enters the record, and it is actually seen when the verdict is done. There's no dictation here. The record actually by law would be, they were involved, they were present you and you, and the component of the record is tonically a recording. It could actually be a demanding job at the end of the whole process, all of this once again, so there are a number of models and variants how actually this, how to solve it in a good way, so there needs to be a very judicial academy, I think do workshops and sort of conduct a debate about all of this. As far as other matters are concerned clearly that, that we support the changes related to the Institute of Audit, a few years ago we introduced a general audit institute by permission, now that in some way the Institute lives under other procedures, not what could have been without permission, but now the practice has shown after the introduction of this institute that there is no reason to form anything, that practice will be formed and that it is actually possible in principle that this institute is applied to all kinds of procedures. The management plan of the case is assessed as good, it will give some certainty in the conduct and that party can actually influence while, while this plan is being done and in some ways can this being participants and the word needs to be implemented and that, it will be certain and the date which is actually very useful. Small-value disputes I think it's okay to do this written way, there's no reason to have big debates in disputes that, which aren't so great of value, but to look at being as efficient as possible, and in fact everything that happens there are legal medicines, so that, as HDZ is concerned, we're going to support the law, we think that it gives good foundations and good ways actually that, to make the judiciary even faster, to be more efficient and to make these lags that are still being reduced and to get into a normal rhythm where really objects are solved in some decent time period, but here are to give deadlines that we see as somewhat extreme, extreme deadlines. Clearly one thing that does not regulate this law is that we think that we should continue to insist on better material conditions, on better spatial conditions that are on courts, on better salaries, people seem to have been protested to me, are really miserable and wages and these accountants and accounting referencing at the courts that are working because the last changes mean where the pay system was being changed it was, it was on the initiative and in the process of dealing with trade unions of about 70% of the employees in the courts paid them this up, but this part of the occupation that exists in other state bodies didn't work out, but they share the fate of all the other assets of the employees in the sector, but there should be found solutions because these salaries are really low. The HDZ club supports this law and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115900	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115901	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we can say that we have a whole set of judicial laws that are definitely just a continuation of everything that is done and brought into this house back a year where we have a lot of laws that concern exactly the judicial system and possible attempts to change the very system that we know is extremely bad and that it is not something that can be praised with the great or high trust of the citizens of this country. When we talk about the CAP what we've been talking about so far, unfortunately we'd like to say that this change is much broader, that it gives a lot more answers, that we have a lot more final information that we're aiming at because on the one hand, it would be unfair to say that this is not another attempt to at least change something for the better, but we're not sure whether that's enough at the end of the day and whether it's going to be that new page that we all sit in HS definitely want, we expect, we look for, and most of us are looking for those who chose us, which are citizens of our country. Joining the EU has brought one good thing that we have had to adapt a lot to European judicial practice, as is the entry into the NPOO and the determination of certain financial resources for reforms in Croatia are also one great thing and one great opportunity. But somehow, in the SDP Club, we seem to be trying to force a lot of things now just to show to the European Commission that we have achieved what we have been asked for and what we have obviously committed, and there are many times in the steps we forget about the content and in the end we only do something to say that we have, and we are left hanging in the air where the profession is, where these new steps are and in what way and what will ultimately be the effect of those who are most important in this, and these are citizens and our entrepreneurs. So far, when we talk about the CAP, we have had 15 amendments to this law, so in 30 years of Croatian independence we have managed to change the CAP 15 times, each time it is certain that every government, every minister, every parliamentary MPs who raised their hand for these changes were convinced they were doing something great, but what is only certain that year after year we have a fall of perception and faith in the Croatian judiciary, and with the number of accumulated cases I think we can all agree that we have not moved from the dead spot. Today we have before us these 15 changes in the second reading and again we have a change that contains changes in over 100 articles. Now I think that each of us should ask ourselves whether it's an absolutely rational and effective change where we change over 100 articles or whether we're just continuing a confusing path that we obviously have through these 15 changes. Perhaps the time has come to see how these articles on one hand are edited, to see what can be simplified and what can be done within these legislative changes to make things work better and to move faster. There have been a lot of debates on the board today, both from the proposings and from colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me about everything that the law contains in itself, which may be on the one hand and some new step, but it can certainly be as a questionnaire on what we will get and at what rate we will adapt and how we will adapt to. Recording and digitisation is certainly something that each of us should welcome not only when we talk about the Croatian judiciary, but also when we talk about very other topics because we simply think that if the topic of digitisation is still a matter for the EU. But we have the questionnaires and the skeptics as to whether this recording model will work in an adequate way. We don't get the clearest answers how long it's gonna take us to adjust to make the system work, at which rate it's going to go together. And what we are able to read is that a lot of parties that are either less educated or weaker property will have very big problems how to catch that screw and how to even use their right to defend themselves. What is also important on the one hand is that it is commendable that it is the management plan of the process. It would definitely be nice to finally have a judicial system in Croatia that will be able to create a time frame in some way and know when an object will be completed and when we can expect results, not that we have situations that are consciously avoiding the laws of this country and stretching out everything that can go into obscenity. But we are also not until the end satisfied with the model that we will punish those who will deal with potential obstruction. We don't have it all worked out. It seems nice that we're doing our best to speed up, but we also think that there's a few more steps to finally see that, that's it, that's how we're going to do it, and that's why we're going to have that and that result. We've had attempts to speed up the process so far, we've had a move towards the judges, which is what certain norms are expected of, measures. But when we add it all together and subtract it we see that we have not moved from the dead spot together except I repeat that our perception of faith in the Croatian judiciary has fallen. What should also be commended at first is that through these legislative changes, we also need to make room for practice to be even, that we do not have a situation that was particularly visible and in some work disputes that each court has some sort of splendor and its matrix to judge, and then, as some lawyers know, when they are in charge of work disputes, that they no longer know at the end of the day why some work dispute has been obtained or taken away. However, the logically skeptical question, if so far we have failed to do so except for a few letters on paper that we will now do what are still steps to come up with, and we can simply say that someone is dealing with the unification of practice, which if we look at the structure of the cases we have in our courts, where there are often property-legislative relations, working disputes would certainly be something that dramatically speeds up the process of solving the case and dramatically reduces these figures that we have today. So on the one hand, we can't say that it's a bad idea to do some steps in the amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure, we can't say that it's a bad idea to take over certain legislative frameworks from the EU, but we're leaving ourselves a very large dose of skepticism that this is still not enough, that this is just an indication that we have some will and that we want to do something but we lacked again the energy and courage to make these steps much tighter, in a much broader form, and that afterwards we have clear criteria and clear numbers that we want to achieve, how we want to achieve and within what deadlines we want to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115902	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115903	Dear MPs and MPs, this morning I told the minister that for a serious reform of the judiciary, we really need to have someone who would have both knowledge and experience and expertise equal to those flying skills Maverick has from Top Gun. Here's one we need a man in charge of a column that will deal with the structure of a problem that actually bothers and tortures all of our citizens because the judiciary is cancer of the early Croatian society, so this structure that sits here today on behalf of the promoter is far, far from one Maverick. But when they don't already have it, when they're not alone already what they should be they could have done next. They could ask the judges well to hear what you really need if we want a faster judiciary, if we want better judgments, if we want better citizens' trust, tell the public what the problems are so that we might get to those causes that, through the amendments and the additions of the laws, need to be removed. And when I say ask the judges, I don't mean those few handpicked who are members of a working group, but literally 1710 of them, how many Croatia literally has if each person needs them. Everyone has their own specific experience, everyone works in a different courtroom, differently equipped, different quality. So, apart from the rules of conduct and the rules of the process, we have some other problems that define working conditions, from courtrooms that don't have, for example, heating, from courtrooms where the whole building falls apart, from courtrooms where the files are placed in basements that are then wet, so the whole file gets dipped. It is the state of the Croatian judiciary. And then we get paid, and then we come up with those situations that I've had the chance to see in practice, that on one spot, the judge whispered quietly if you have a problem printing only the last page of the record, and the rest we'll send you via email. On my question and why, they said there was only one portable printer in the whole court, and that the toner was too expensive, and then on paper and on toner savings. It is the state of the Croatian judiciary. And that item is nowhere in these amounts that we will now withdraw from the EU. In fact, I am pleased that we will try to equip all our courtrooms with better technical means, but at the same time we must provide the people who use these technical means with appropriate working conditions. And we finally have to be as a state if we want to create some self-respect, we need to get to the point that our judicial buildings are not the most desolation and devastation institutions from the city to the city, from Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, these are buildings of several hundred years old, completely unsuitable for the maintenance of modern litigation and the application of some modern process, and we are talking about digitisation. There's not even this uniform digitalized court practice. So it's negligent and that neglect isn't just the consequence of ignorance the good part is and there's some, some evil intention. In the end, one part of me thinks you're good at this law and there won't be any big damage because there wasn't much intention when the law was written. So I thought if I raised my hand and supported it more or less to anyone, but it's not really like that. I can't support this law. Because I can't support the practice that any minister lets himself stop for this pay phone and says well we don't really know, we don't know, we don't know what effect this law is going to have in practice, what the consequences are going to produce. Well, gentlemen, if you don't know what this law will lead to, then just don't even bring it, don't bring it. And in the background of the whole story is actually hiding a big cowardice. If we talk about speeding up the trial process, it will not happen by imposing these instructive deadlines, which are defined by the judges as the period during which they can reach a verdict. This will take advantage of what good advertising is in the media, perhaps in Europe. Here's what we've imposed on the judges of the norms, because they were weeds, and they were in love, and they were lazy, and it's just not like that. It's just not like that. First of all, an instructive period means that nothing will happen if it is not respected in practice. Thirdly, it is not the judge who is not always the main and responsible one that has long lasted. And that's what the law was supposed to remove, but in order to remove it first, he needs to know where they are in essence and problems, so I'm going back to what dear judges are telling me what's bothering you. This is what the future justice minister should ask the first judge, so we will come to the fact that the parties themselves do not appear, that they do not provide in time notice that they will not approach the hearing, that very often lawyers are manipulating the process, that sometimes the parties themselves, the parties themselves, I am such representatives, can not, for example, pay some court costs, can not pay the court's witch and then buy the time, sometimes they are not months, these are sometimes years because they are aware that without this procedural action, without paying the experts who will perform some expert work cannot go further with their proceedings anywhere. So I'm going back to that question of free payment aid only 4 million kunas that the annual state singles out for such cases. These are the structural problems of our judiciary. On the one hand, these are judges who are working in inadequate conditions, and I'm only refering to the honest ones now, not the few bad guys that we need to find first, and then get out of the system once and for all. I'm talking to honest judges, there are, there's a lot of them. They do not work under appropriate conditions, both technical and infrastructure, and then processive. And contrary to them, it is the citizens, on the one hand, who cannot pay themselves to participate in the process at all in the way the law prescribes them or those other corrupts who actually manipulate the judiciary because they can afford it with their financial powers. Nothing in this law can address these problems in any way. But there's another one, so we're going to transfer responsibility to the judges. What a phenomenal marketing three, so we'll define their deadlines. It's like you're building a building. Let's imagine that a powerful verdict is the same thing as a building and you have a draft. And now in the contract on the construction, we say it has to be done in three months, phenomenally, and you haven't asked the plumber how long it takes him to pull the cables, dig the holes, that you haven't asked the electrician if there's any connection to the electrical lighting for that building and a whole series of other elements about it no one cares. That's why, dear Minister, you've come to a job you're no match for, and your assistants are no better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115904	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, a respected representative will speak, and an apology earlier appears on behalf of the proposing respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115905	Thank you very much, Vice President. Not wanting to waste time on anyone, but I have to react after 10 minutes we have listened to the views of the distinguished representative Dalia Oreshkovic around this law. First of all, let's understand the beginning of what our wish is to you and my personal because I've met you both as an agent and as a responsible person, I don't find you unfair. I think you've got fair work to do, but don't think of us as fools who work here or incompetent people, let the public judge it, let the voters judge it, let the new team come. I personally wish you 100 terms, it doesn't mind, but look to insult the people we didn't choose, we've sent letters to the deans of law school. What are the relationships between professors in colleges we don't know, among the councils who will send whom. What kind of court relations are, we don't know, but we asked the presidents of the courts to give us the people you choose to be part of our task force. And then this all comes down to one thing I can say disappointment that every step forward, we don't even need praise, nothing but looks a little demotive. You should let those who decide who should be here and sit and argue and decide by their own will what is, what is not, what is good, what is not good. But that level of bitterness, that addiction to spit, that addiction to the treading of something that's trying and doing it, I don't like it personally. You can be offended as much as you want, I told you I want 100 terms as you deserve, but out of respect for the people who did this with us I would never dare, and here I was 5 calling out to say something like that, you can do it to me if I'm into politics, are we incompetent, are we stupid, are we Top Gun, are we Toro and Pancho or do we not know what? You say what you want, and I won't tell you. I wish you 100 terms to get, so let the public assess what it looks like, what it should look like, and you had double standards for the situation in Split. You had some other standards in some things, I don't want to offend you personally. I'm telling you I want you in this way to get a hundred terms of office, let the citizens do so now what they choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115906	Stay, stay. You have a replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115907	You say double standards. I have publicly dared my party colleagues who are currently in the election race, so in the most sensitive period, I have dared to say practically that they are jerks. And no one in the entire HDZ has dared to tell their party colleagues who are legally convicted of crimes that they are criminals. So, so much for double standards. And since you've already answered the word, I was hoping you'd tell us here who cares: The first thing you'll do is fill up those unfulfilled jobs in the offices of a special financial investigator in USKOK that we've been waiting for since 2014? When will you raise wages to them and to those who have recently protested inadequate wages? When will all our courtrooms be equipped with adequate devices? And the fourth time you're already in power, and the reconstruction can't begin when you're going to rebuild the building, the basic infrastructure for trials in the Republic of Croatia? Those were supposed to be your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115908	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115909	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs do it all the time, they talk all the time. So, you've now reported for the debate individually on behalf of the club, finally. Whatever you say when you don't want to hear it. Well, we've been listening to some of your suggestions about corruption and the eye, and I don't know all the laws. You were active and we appreciated it. But you must allow when you come here the only thing, the only obsession with how to spit this side. There's nothing wrong with that. Well, it's not possible that out of 151 of these out there, 76, 77, 78 is really no good. No one knows. Well, we have this lawyer who's been a state secretary and a lawyer for a long time, he knows more than I do about criminal proceedings and litigation, and he was in court the same way as you. But the political circle, we've been working on some things quality together, and I'm sorry every time that man gets a little upset when he thinks, that's when you come on this side one day I'll never say it. I hope my colleagues never will either, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115910	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block. The Honorable representative of Ursha Raukar-Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115911	Thank you. The Honorable State Secretary today mentioned on two occasions one Supreme Court judge who was in the working group and mentioned him in a way that should be understood that he was in line with the proposals, and this same judge in public, in public, made very clear four remarks about the criminal. And he was one of these judges who unanimously opposed it. So there's a big space for remarks. Here's so much from me. And now let me say that these amendments and the additions of the Law on a litigation process are less problematic than the previous ones, so from the Law on Criminal Procedure that we are still hoping for, we hope that there will be reason, a good will to send it to the third reading. For these amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, we would like to strengthen some of the proposals and remarks of the Ombudsman, such as the proposal, for example, to sanction not only harder under allegations of abuse of the procedural powers of the parties and their representatives, but to sanction all abuses or abuses to delay the proceedings, because both harder and less severe abuses have the same effect, and this is an extension of the proceedings, and we agree with their proposal to place it more clearly in Article 10(2). The lawyer believes that a warning should first be given, and only then a fine. However, we would say that it is necessary to sanction immediately all attempts of false delay which in our procedural practice are many and certainly one of the essential reasons for the length of the proceedings. Lawyers know very well what a delay is, and what is justified by asking for a delay. And we think it would be good as well that there is a broader range of sanctions available so that judges are allowed to individualise sanctions according to a specific case of attempts to delay the proceedings. Compared to our fellow citizens of weaker property, which unfortunately is increasing, and given the record inflation and the increase in food prices in the last year than even more than 15% in the last year, there will be more and more. Therefore, it is not acceptable for them to audit in accordance with Article 91a. which prescribes that only lawyers or persons with a judicial examination may write an audit proposal. Here to assume it is considering free legal assistance in these cases, but we all testify that free legal aid is not equally available on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and that insufficient state resources are provided for free representation. So that, above all, the system of free legal aid should be strengthened, but also to consider the need for a restriction on who can make proposals for review so that all our citizens are equal in their rights before the court. As for the tone recording of the debate, of course, I will repeat that we support digitisation, but we have the same objections as in the last debate on the CAP. Therefore, we believe that court settlements and actions outside the court should be recorded and that, in addition to the tone recording, the system of records should be maintained for reasons that I have already cited in the previous debate, therefore from parties of weaker property which may not have the technical ability to listen to to tonne recordings, to the quality of the record, to easier writing judgments, to facing witnesses who change statements or to add some new details with their work statements and so on. And we certainly think that, with the tone recording, we need to keep the records. And we find it very important that the attorney general's objection that proceedings in litigation for the termination of a life-long and life-restraint contract be singled out, that they should be singled out and arranged as a matter of urgency in case of litigation proceedings. So the reasons are white, and that's usually the high age of the damage that often doesn't end the process. They are also questionable reasonable deadlines set in these amendments and additions. In fact, these reasonable deadlines are twice as long as what we could really call reasonable and the regulation of such long deadlines would make sense if overrunning those deadlines would lead to a process of determining cause and responsibility. It is said that the litigation before a first-degree court should be completed within three years of the day of appeal. On complaints, second-degree courts would be obliged to decide anyway within a year, so now I'm not quoting all these deadlines. It is important, however, to stress that unique deadlines are so difficult to determine precisely, because this is simply impossible because of the different demanding actions among which some can end almost immediately, i.e. in a very short time, and some can't in a few years because of the problems with the evidence, the skills and the like. We also believe that it should be prescribed that, in the event of a deadline being exceeded in specific cases, the President of the competent court must submit a reasoned report to the competent ministry and to the President of the Supreme Court, with an assessment of whether there are reasons for the launch of the tightening proceedings. If not, then what other causes should be removed in order to achieve a reasonable trial. And we believe that the presidents of the courts should file any disputes that the Republic of Croatia loses because of a violation of the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period. In the present situation, a number of unfair trials occur, which are confirmed by court rulings, damages to the country's reputation and, of course, budget costs. Such a situation must not be acceptable and the causes and responsibilities should be identified after each loss of such a dispute. Finally, it is not clear how the date of 1 April 2013 was selected as the limit behind which all proceedings were initiated before that date have, within six months, led to the main debate. Therefore, in all proceedings initiated before 1 April 2013 in which a first-degree ruling has not been adopted before the entry into force of this law, within six months of the entry into force of this law, the preparatory hearing will be held at which it will conclude the previous proceedings and hold a main debate at the same hearing. It is really not clear how that date was chosen, nor explained how something that has not been possible on one occasion would be. Now, it wouldn't be good if April 1st turned out to be April 1. We don't know which order when it comes to judicial reform in the Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115912	We're going to an individual debate. And the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115913	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have spent the Croatian public spending our time today making our contribution to improving, improving, reforming, the proposals of our executive authority to put our judiciary in full function and to do its constitutional tasks far more effectively and faster. I would now only briefly refer to an institute of the Law on a litigation procedure, a proposal, a final proposal for amendments and an addition to the Law on a litigation procedure which, for the first time in this Croatian state, you have introduced in a litigatory procedure an institute of illegal evidence, and that is what Professor Michael Dicka was talking about, we can also say a bard of litigatory procedural law written in 2015, 2016. I also had the opportunity to find this article with great doubts and skepticism, but in principle, he argued that with one eye, looking at some European countries and in Croatia's litigious procedural right to introduce the institute, and now you are in article 220a. It seems to me defined in two paragraphs. In fact, it is a big step, a bold step towards legislation, on the CAP, for example, which explicitly states what illegal evidence is when it is not to be used. In fact, there is a theory of poisoned fruit where the evidence carried out on the basis of an illegal must not be used, especially by our respected, highly respected academic Krapac and wrote and spoke and spent a lot of his scientific energy. And now we're opening the door you've put the cheap two items where it's clearly seen that yet our courts in certain cases of proportionality tests can accept such unlawful evidence I suppose you've thought of the relatively illegal, because absolute if it was obtained by torture, torture, serious criminal acts, theft in law offices, public-book kidnapping, coercion, yes, then it wouldn't apply to them, whether, but in other cases, that our courts might accept such illegal evidence in litigation if it were of greater benefit to the public interest in determining the facts. Of course, you've fenced yourself there so illegal evidence can't base a court decision, is it, which is quite understandable? And here, it's an open door, and it'll certainly cause a bile and fruitful debate in our academic circles, so we'll see what court practice will bring. It would be good if we had to say something about it, about these illegal evidence, I don't know, what motivated you, if your time could spend a little bit, I provoke you on purpose, so we can hear you teach us a little bit, that, conditionally speaking, let's say, let's hear those arguments why say one letter that happens to end up with person A, and it should end up with person B, and that letter proves something, why this could be evidence in court, why would a phone or SMS conversation, why would an email that wasn't meant for the general public, or even beyond the knowledge of the defendants or something, be put in evidence, for example, in a fundus of evidence. Why, why, why, why, could you ask 100 more questions, but I'd like you to explain it a little bit. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115914	Stay here, you have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115915	Dear fellow Sacic, here I would like to touch another institute that I think should be further elaborated, which is to return the verdict or the solution to the re-determination. I have the impression that for many years I have worked as a land reference and in real estate cases, when complaints were made at the first degree, the second stage has often returned to the re-determination, but has not quite defined the reasons why it returns, some procedural reasons he stated, I believe that the re-determination institute should be defined more strictly and thus would also have accelerated the process in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115916	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115917	Well surely, I agree, it would contribute to certain legal certainty, to define the situation, and I think I read somewhere that the deadlines of restitution in integrity or something, that it's somehow now restricted to, it has some kind of time limit until it can be endured, this, this return to the previous state, or return, it's something else. I agree with you, but we should really put a lot of professional people on the line so we can give some amendment to it or so, let's see what they think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115918	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115919	Dear fellow Sačić, in your professional career you have certainly had a lot of experience in gathering evidence, processing evidence and all that it means and interesting, but you have looked back in your gloves at the institute of illegal evidence that we introduce to the small door in proceedings. What do you think this could do in practice in our litigation procedures and against the parties in the process, if the system had detached control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115920	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115921	Yes, they are, they are really complex and legal and practical, and we can say questions, as well as some dilemmas. For example, you'll remember all of Fifth Dude's affairs. It was in someone’s interest to break into the public record office and the cash register and the contract where it was defined hides it or in some way exclude it from the process of proof. Now, you see, if, by any chance, the police had come to this unsub, etc., now it would be possible to put it in the process without any problem, and the Croatian public would say, well, bravo, we've come, we've cleared up a situation. However, it certainly would not applaud the Croatian public if this legal evidence were to result in the violation of personal rights and freedom of communication, above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115922	Thank you. Thank you. The following will be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who is gone, who loses his right to speak, and will then speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115923	Thank you. We're at the end of the debate, so I'm going to try to be as brief as possible and look back at some specifics that have appeared during the day. Dear Mr. Salapic, let's just finally clear something up because we have the same problem with every judicial case, and especially with some anti-corruption law. By listening to you as well as your colleagues, there is somehow too much to talk about either me personally or my political party or some things that have absolutely nothing to do with the provisions of the law, and then you're misconsuming some things. So you're aware yourself that there's a lot of good suggestions, quality suggestions, very much, mine, specifically. Your political option has not introduced or considered them at all. But it's not even about that, it's about actually, and that's the point, that many complaints, many suggestions, many suggestions, many advices that we can consider to be the word of the profession, I was just their voice from the bench. Not only me, but also, and colleagues from other political parties and options that I do not really agree with at all, but we all read the comments from the public debate, we all read unfortunately what we had the opportunity to see in the media because the respect of parliamentary representatives and our business culture are not meant at all, for example, when the Supreme Court gives its views on anything to the Croatian Parliament or the legislator of the law, therefore there is no way that it automatically implies that such a single document will come to the table of each parliamentary representative. It's a shame. But I'm also saying beyond that, we've heard ourselves, because it's our duty, it's our obligation, it's that minimum of some honesty and standard of conduct of an agent's duty to hear what a bill has to say about a profession. And here's the waist that actually rebelled. Those who will apply the law are also rebelled. And what exactly is the issue with you? Instead of dealing with it because it's your duty as a resolute ministry, you're going to ad persona to those parliamentary deputies who are replicating it, making different arguments and suggestions. So no one in this country will benefit from such an approach. To conclude, I will not support this law. I don't think it will be supported by most opposition MPs, despite the fact that I am the process of speeding up the trial, the speedy decision-making and the introduction of electronic forms in the course of the debate, we all support and hope that there will be as much in the future as possible. But these unprepared, insufficient content proposals really shouldn't be supported just so HDZ can present itself to do something. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115924	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Lerotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115925	Dear colleagues, and we listen well, and we have been hearing from morning to morning since we first had criminal proceedings, and we are now hearing litigation about the problems in the judiciary. We hear that often when there are other topics, that is one of the main reasons why young people are moving us out. I think that even certain things that are being brought in and going in a positive direction may not be brave enough and perhaps we are not moving forward at a pace that we should actually do. However, it is the same to be critical and self-involved, it is today when we have the opportunity to discuss justice all day long, the problems in the judiciary are there, we would say in Istria. Little or almost nothing. And that's actually a criticism to all of us. Oh, no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115926	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115927	I thank my colleague Lerotić. I agree with you, but this is because such mentality and such a political climate were created not only for the duration of this 10th convocation of the Croatian Parliament but also for all those previous ones, a good part of it was subdued or encouraged by the Rules of Procedure and, in part, the political culture, or the culture. How do you look at this pay phone? It's like a place where someone's gonna come up with something, some shakes, literally shakes up, digs up and goes away. We've all forgotten what the debate is for. The debate doesn't serve to tell you something, or you don't always have to say something at all. There's no discussion if there's no one who should hear it, and we don't have that culture of listening to each other. So here's what I'd like to ask the MPs to start doing that, to listen to each other for a start.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115928	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115929	Now, here I am, all of you, being infatuated because I listen to you and renew my legal knowledge of which I grew up a long time ago because of objective circumstances. But listening to you, respecting your Jewish truly rich culture, legal practice, I don't fully understand why you would give up purely for the political reason of something, a grain of gold just because it comes from HDZ? I'm not burdened with that. I'm looking for a general benefit. Now I don't know why, is there really any use here? So put yourself in the role of your colleagues as much as they will be relieved to work in everyday practice. And now I think that from me, I'm talking about myself, it wouldn't be ethical to throw it in the trash because a long time ago someone locked me up innocent in Remetinec, for example, in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115930	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115931	Thank you. Dear fellow Sacic, but you've got it all wrong. I don't think that the fact that someone in the 21st century of 2022 introduces electronic communication into the trial process is just such a grain of gold. It really isn't. If it was a grain of gold, I'd support it. It's electronic communication, which unfortunately won't speed up the process to that extent, because our courts aren't technically equipped to absorb it in such a way at the moment. Our professional service, the writers and the others who work or what they're dealing with right now are not doing very well. No one's talking about it. Our judges don't have, for example, counsellors who would write to them, put together most of the court ruling, so that they can only correct a little bit, let it go further than they have to write for themselves. There are many other problems that are much more important, and of which those who have never seen courts and trials simply run away and do not listen to those who work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115932	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115933	The honourable MPs first have to look at the inappropriate behavior of 90% of the MPs who have asked for a separate hearing at these two points, and now they are not here. They didn't get involved in the debate at all, and they asked that the debate be separate. That's the first one. Secondly, the fact is that the law brings some good things, brings some changes, brings some innovations. Just to ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you some answers later if I can have them. Thank you very much. Okay. And I'd like to let you know that within these minutes, how much time do you have left for a replica to say what are your biggest objections to this law? [[There's another secretary of state.]] Because there's really a lot of them, but what are your biggest ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115934	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115935	It doesn't matter. What do we need? We need court practice available to lawyers as well as citizens in an easy search and available way. That's what was promised a long time ago, and it's not really there. It's digitization. The second is that we have introduced instructive deadlines to the judges and told them how much time we leave them to solve the file and write their verdict without removing the procedural causes of a delay during a lawsuit, for example, for those malversions that the parties themselves are doing in the process whether they are lawyers or parties who do not have the opportunity to pay for a process shop, and then here they themselves contribute to their own case being squatted in drawers. So we haven't removed the causes, and we're dealing with the consequences briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115936	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115937	We all agreed in our discussions that we should change something, that we should do everything and that we should support that the processes and procedures are absolutely accelerated, that we provide judges and staff with better working conditions, better wages and all that is needed for one system to move forward. If everyone in this assembly, and it's clear from the debate, what's your opinion, then why are we breaking things over our knees and not finishing this deal with all the steps to the end, but we're getting ourselves into a situation like this so that there's even good intentions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115938	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115939	It seems to me, so there are two reasons. There's one, one I even support. I think we want to withdraw funds from the European funds that are available to us to invest in the technical equipment of the judiciary, that's generally good, but it's a shame that we have then adapted the whole amendment and the addition of the law to the rule of law to that alone, so that's one reason. The second is that these deadlines are actually going to get a good ad, they're going to say in public look, now we're going to get judges to act quickly, to act quickly, to work quickly, to take credit for themselves, without actually solving anything structural in order to actually be faster. And in the end, if it comes to the fact that one judge didn't respect his instructional deadline, then that judge will resist his finger as if he were simply a lazy woman, and no one will even ask him why the extension of the instructive period ever took place, there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115940	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115941	Thank you very much. First of all, let me apologize to the Secretary of Honor. I didn't know you had a mandate to speak freely of our questions. I've already asked those questions and the secretary, before I tried to ask the Minister questions about what makes the law not currently enforceable. I consulted the judges of the municipal court and of the county court who confirmed what I noticed in one part and added to me one inconsistencies related to the view dispute, so I'm going to talk a little bit about these three points. Let's talk about the dispute first. Here the Proposer wishes to change clearly the existing client's obligation, the provision of the law by amending it with a vague amendment aimed at allegedly equating court practice, which, according to the proposal, enables the ambiguity and complexity of proceedings. I'm talking about an article that erases Article 394a. from an existing law. So the judge can no longer appeal to a particular case, he can't exactly refer to the business number of cases from the Supreme Court, so now potentially all the courts are burdened and confusingly argumentating each for themselves because they are no longer bound by the law to adhere to it. At the same time, a weapon will be given to lawyers who will be able to call on them not to commit it to anyone anymore, and in this way the whole purpose of this screening process is actually destroyed. If you don't mind explaining to us why it's being deleted because it's not true and it's not good. So we're talking about an article that erases actually because it writes an explanation that is deleted because the authority of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia's decisions should stem from the conviction of the argument. Furthermore, I asked a question about the recording. There's a problem not only about the recording, but also about the record. In fact, the law makes it clear what the content of the minutes is and says that the content of the minutes is what the judge there dictates to his secretary, and the tone record goes with it. This is clearly defined in Article 13 if I am not mistaken, where it says that there will be a contribution to the tone record and that the judge will correctly state in the record from which to what second someone is speaking, whether these are parties to the proceedings, whether their representatives are legal or are witnesses. However, we heard today from the secretary that the assumptions for the recording do not exist. So the assumptions for recording don't exist, and we've prescribed by law exactly what the record should look like and it says that the record must be attached to the tone recording, which means that the judges are currently unable to make a record. And if you look at what it says in Article 110, that is, Article 111, which further makes the situation even more difficult, means in Article 110, the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, set out in Articles 11 and 17 of this law as regards the recording of tones and other provisions, which will, in fact, decide whether or not a court is ready or not ready for recording. It is therefore impossible to make the minutes currently respected secretaries if we are to comply with the law, and Article 111 states that this law enters into force 8 days from the date of its publication in the National Journal other than the provisions of Article 1(1), Article 94 to 106 of this Act which enter into force on 1 July 2022 and the provisions of Article 89 of this Act which enter into force by adopting specific rules on representative suits for the protection of consumer collective interests. Therefore, you have not excluded articles 11 to 17 in which you prescribe the content of the minutes, and the record is currently impossible to make because we do not have a tone recording. I'm asking you to explain to us what the judges are going to do and how they're going to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115942	We have a replica, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115943	Thank you. A colleague of Pavic, one of the reasons why we are listed as being negative, which is why our judiciary is a slow delivery problem. So the deliveries that can be messy, the notified didn't raise the shipment, the incomplete address. Right now, we're in the right e-communication system. What do you think of this system if it speeds up court proceedings or if it might further complicate them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115944	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115945	It's hard to answer now because we don't know who's actually going to be on the other side, who's going to be the recipient of these, these documents. If this will be legal agents who normally communicate by means of electronic means, it is likely that this written delivery will be much easier. We, we forgot one more moment, which is that we have an e-civil and a letter delivery in their mailbox, which would be even more efficient and even better. In fact, anyone who wants to, they can have that box at their disposal for zero kuna. They actually have it available to get usernames and passwords in FINU, so you don't need any licenses, you don't need any of these certificates so it would actually be the easiest and fastest. Whether it's going to go this way or some other way we don't know it right now, but in any case for our fellow citizens who don't communicate by electronic means, who don't have that equipment at home, who don't have a smartphone, I think it's going to be a lot harder than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115946	Finally, a respected representative, Nikola Mažar, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115947	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament who are in the assembly, as we heard in the second reading The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and in the first reading today, during the opening explanation of the motion and discussion, we heard all the newspapers that this final proposal of the law and passed. First of all, to continue the reform of the judiciary and to increase the effectiveness of the judicial system for the greater trust of our citizens and the continued improvement of the system, to achieve civil and legal protection through the regulation of the rules of litigation under national law. The importance of these amendments and additions is seen primarily in the matter of which this law deals, which is to regulate all processes that are conducted before our civil courts, in civil proceedings and in all those procedures that our citizens most often lead to damages, disturbances of property, family and trade disputes. Thanks to the National Recovery and Resistance Programme for 2021. – 2026, which includes a reform of the efficiency of the judicial system for greater citizens' trust and foresees reform of the litigation procedure, with the exception of the further digitisation of the judiciary as well as through the strengthening of existing and the introduction of new procedural institutes in order to speed up the litigation process of today's proposed amendments and additions to the CAP, aims to establish a regulatory, technological and organisational framework that will contribute to reducing the number of pending cases and reducing the duration of litigation procedures and to focus on transparent and effective management of the judicial system. It is certainly necessary to introduce a series of newspapers and improvements to the existing legislative framework, as can be seen in the section relating to reform of the litigation procedure based on the maintenance of the remote hearing, the introduction of mandatory tone recording of the debate, the arrangement of proceedings in small-value disputes as well as the rule of written procedure and the timetables for ending the proceedings at a particular instance of the trial. If we take, for example, the newspaper that introduces the mandatory tone recording of the hearing, the more detailed editing of the remote hearing and the introduction of the management plan, we see that these changes are making new work methodology in the conduct of court proceedings and their concentration, the procedural discipline of all participants is strengthened, and the work of judges is facilitated with significant savings on work material. If we take an example of a distance debate, which is a great and certainly measure to welcome it, we see that it is already living in commercial courts where it applies, and in municipal courts it began to apply at the time of the pandemic, and now it is important that this new model become a practice and that is why it will be important for the education of judges to fully and fully live. In this way not only speeds up the overall process but our citizens and sides do not have to come directly into the building, they do not actually have to waste time but it is possible to do so in this much faster way that not only saves time but also costs for citizens who should travel and come to the litigation process itself. By prescribing deadlines in which first-degree and second-degree courts must end the procedure or deadlines in which the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia must decide on a proposal for the adoption of an audit and the audit decision will contribute to encouraging judges who manage the procedure to influence their timely decisions and actions other participants as well. In conclusion, the objective of amending and supplementing the Law on a litigation procedure is to modernise the judicial process as a whole, accelerate and reduce the duration of the parallel proceedings, reduce the number of pending cases, and ensure transparent and effective management of the judicial system, resulting in increased efficiency of the judicial system and greater confidence of citizens in the judicial system and the functioning of the institutions in general. For this reason, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115948	Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115949	Thank you very much. I won't be long, but I'll just, I'll just draw attention to where the trouble with the recording comes from. So again from practice, from municipal courts, from county courts. What's going on? This is definitely a major methodological change because all judges are taught to work on a concrete file and visually. When writing a decision, the file may be opened with a record, statements by the parties, witnesses and others, and may be written on the basis of the decision or judgment. Assuming that the video is technically perfect, it will be very difficult for the judge to refer to the sound record, return every little bit in that sound log, record the time of the beginning and end of the part relating to the individual point of the decision, which is actually an additional job burdening him with time and organisation. When I asked the secretary what was really with the record, he said you could get a stenogram. The question arises who will write this stenogram when and now the court officials are burdened and do not have enough time and now go to work overtime. So he's gonna have another extra job, we don't know when he's gonna do it, and we don't know who's gonna pay for it. Let's take a look at our records or the stenograms we have here at the assembly. How many times have you encountered the part where three dots are unclear and then the text continues in the next sentence or after maybe two sentences. There are hundreds and hundreds of such places. What will the judge do in that case? How he'll make a decision if one part's incomprehensible. It also does not define what will happen if the tone is completely invalid. There is a possibility if a court dispute is concluded, where the judge, after the day or when he goes to listen to the tone record, finds that the tone record is not valid. What are we gonna do with that? The solution to that doesn't exist in this law, it's not defined who will, how it will pay. So there's got to be a new procedure, right, a new lawsuit has to be held, but it doesn't define who's going to pay the costs, whether it's the costs of the court, whether it's the costs of the parties, the defendant's party or the one who defends himself. How are we gonna handle this? So there's no such thing as a legal solution. That's why we've been paying attention to the fact that the law isn't fixed. And those who claim that there's nothing good in the law that's not true. There are good things, but we have to warn that some things aren't good and that we have to change them so that we can work because judges simply can't work under this law. I told you, I can't write the record, they don't have what they're going to do and how they're going to do it if the video is wrong, and it's also not what the decision or judgment should look like. What will it say in the verdict, on what basis, based on which statements, from which to which second, what, how, why? As for the delivery of audio records, do not forget that you did not mention the format in which you will give the audio records to the parties. So when a party is looking for a record or when they want to raise it from the portal, we need to see what formats these videos will be in because most of our fellow citizens don't have all the technology they might need to be able to listen to and perhaps discuss that part with their legal representative afterwards. Therefore, these are things that we must define in order for this law to be functional, so that it can be implemented in practice. So please, Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind answering these questions, I'm calm. Otherwise I handed over this amendment there, so if the amendments will be accepted then we'll vote for that law, and if we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115950	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115969	Good afternoon, everyone. We continue with the following item on the agenda, or last for today: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. Number 275 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115970	The respected vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and respected deputies, amendments and additions to the Government Act will specify the powers and duties of the government's chief secretary in a way that, in accordance with the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure, helps the president prepare meetings and other government affairs. A clear way is laid down to appoint all persons independently of working legal status for the performance of special advisor’s duties, which have expertise of importance for the exercise of the duties of the Prime Minister. Better and more transparently regulates the status of special advisers and members of government-based councils. It will be prescribed who may be appointed a member of the council by prescribing the obligation of public publication of information on members of the council as well as special advisers. The obligation to sign a declaration of interests and impartiality of special advisers and members of the council established by the Government shall be introduced. It is arranged the way they have to do their jobs. The issue of their impartiality and avoidance and elimination of conflicts of interest is particularly regulated. The proposed amendments will allow the conduct of criminal proceedings against a member of the government for corrupt acts for which persecution is committed under official duty without prior approval by the government. Finally, the bill proposes nomotechnical improvements and changes in the time of entry into force of the law. Thank you for your attention. ... That's nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115971	Thank you, no replicas you can place. Let's see if the committee's reporters will take a word for it. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic? No, I don't see anyone or Mrs. Jelkovac. All right, then, I'm opening a debate. Let's go with the representatives' clubs first. The first in line is the club of representatives of the Most in which Mr. Kujundzic and Petrov will speak, there are none, they lose the right to debate. Next Club of Representatives of the SDP, colleague Bauk, here you are, take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115972	Thank you. I think it's too strict for both of us to lose the right to debate, and 10 minutes, according to the old rules of procedure was 15. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the second reading of the Law on Government, but the third one is because it is the first stage, and the zero reading was the Saturday when Minister Horvat was arrested. And then everyone realized that government members had immunity because before this, it was usually not happening. It is the right of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the parliamentary majority, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe provisions on the immunity of members of the government in the way it believes they should be prescribed and we should not actually take too much consideration of that. As far as we're concerned, you can cancel their private lawsuits, etc. Because much less damage works when gossiping in court than when they're in government. However, for the existence and improvement of all kinds of political systems, this topic is one of those in which the balance of power relations between several independent or dependent state bodies is discussed, primarily with regard to the State's attorneys and courts, the executive authorities and ultimately the legislative authorities as law enforcement bodies. Since there is a saying in the people, I wish you everything I wish for myself and something like that, I have arranged and an amendment in which I would have prescribed the provisions and applied them accordingly from Articles 23 to 28. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, where I briefly believe that the provisions of immunity should be applied to members of the government as well as to MPs in the assembly. For example, our colleague Boris Milosevic was the Deputy Prime Minister and against him the State Attorney's Office launched a criminal procedure and then he resigned or was removed or he wanted to retire and returned to the Croatian Parliament and now we expect him to remove immunity, to come from the State's immunity attorney's office. You'll admit that doesn't make any sense. If the purpose of immunity is that during the duration of the conduct of the duties, it is possible to act peacefully without the competent authority’s consent to conduct a procedure, then there is no reason to apply it to the representatives without applying it to the members of the government if it is already applied to the Advocates, the Commissioner for Information and the like. Secondly, I believe that any request for the removal of immunity that comes from the State's Attorney's Office that it is a practice in the Croatian Parliament for a number of years, that it is accepted, so that it protects no one at any level from the prosecution that is being prosecuted by official duty, in order to make it very applicable to both members and members of the government. I believe that no prime minister would allow, for example, a parliamentary debate on the removal of immunity from a member of the government at the request of the State's Attorney's Office or that, in that case, before the debate, that member of the government would cease to be an ex, so he would lose his immunity. So in that sense, I don't see any problem in that, in the application of this mechanism. As for private lawsuits, I also do not see that the practice that is now going on in the Croatian Parliament would change that, during the duration of the term of office of this suit, the immunity is refused. And I also believe that in this parliamentary debate, the Prime Minister or that member of the government would be given the opportunity to answer the charges if he considers them unfounded. So, we, although we had this case in February, none of the three members of the government against whom DORH initiated the criminal proceedings did not remain a member of the government. Therefore, this was only a matter of a kind of move that would be taken to bring criminal proceedings and that these members of the government would no longer be members of the government if it was a political decision. I also don't think that for Croatia's improvement, the rule of law needed to be arrested in front of cameras Saturday morning by a government member who remains a current minister. So, em, that information came to the press, so someone in the system was knowingly breaking the law to actually repair the reputation damage in my opinion the one who had because of one case before they had a fight in front of the retailer's cameras, the chief state attorney and director of USKOK. I therefore believe that representatives in the Croatian Parliament need to, excuse the application of the same rules to the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the more the large number of members of the government were elected parliamentary representatives, not that elected parliamentary representatives, were the first on the lists. So I don't think there should be any other practice. If a private suit comes against a member of the government, it should be refused, if it comes from the State Attorney's Office it should be accepted as is the case for parliamentary deputies, and if the political consequences of such criminal proceedings and the shift from office are that it should happen and that is that. I do not see the need to further abolish certain rights that government members and even these and these Croatian governments have in this law. For this reason, I will repeat that we are not contesting the right of the government and the parliamentary majority to prescribe rules for its members. This seems to me to be the same example as that of the Law establishing and detouring the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, so at first you determine how many ministries you'll have, and that's where the parliamentary majority is seen, it's on the budget, and it's supposed to be seen in this government. The SDP club will remain restrained on this law. So, if the government, if the parliamentary majority wants to reduce the level of protection, we will not oppose it, but that we believe it is correct, we do not think it is. If a member of the government is being prosecuted for a corrupt act, then immunity is completely irrelevant. It will cease to be a member of the government in a relatively fast, relatively fast time, because the party will not want to suffer political damage because it is inadmissible against its member, who is in the government, and the issue of immunity is gradually irrelevant, but it is good for this to be put into law. If, then, against a member of the DORH government, a criminal procedure is brought on then the Prime Minister has two options for me. One is to ask the secretary to write a solution on the discharge of the member of the government and to make him former and thus have no immunity or if she considers that it is a clear abuse of the right by the State's attorney to refer to the Croatian Parliament for the discharge of the state's attorney. There's no way he's going to stay here without having his immunity removed and then going to the police in his spare time, and until then he's a member of the government or a minister. And secondly, I believe that, therefore, the practice suggests that the arrests on Saturday morning were not necessarily necessary for the Croatian judicial system to be saved because, as our colleagues in the assembly who were arrested on the grounds of the removal of immunity did not save them from being arrested 2 days later, so I don't think that the criminal proceedings suffered that it could be applied to the members of the government because of what I say, I believe that in the case of Minister Horvat, someone abused his right and the information that should be reported to the press on Saturday morning at 6 p.m. because I suspect that they are going to the Mediterranean streets on Saturday morning with the cameras involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115973	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. The next debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives and on behalf of which will be spoken by counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115974	Thank you. Here's my colleague and colleague for 14 days, three weeks since the first reading of this law, and I've had something intriguing here in the meantime that happened, and I would especially like to point out. But before that, I would like to say that as we did a few weeks ago, I have found the reason, the motive for passing this law would have said external nature and therefore the adoption of the two recommendations of GRECO that were going towards us. They were heading towards us on purpose. And I think it's 17 recommendations, these are 2 that are being built into changing this law which should not be disputed and in the vote I believe that the law will get support because we are also in line with European practice, let's also consider it some kind of preventive anti-corruption anti-corruption mechanisms and an additional reduction of government officials' security to protect against criminal persecution for corruption. I listened carefully to my predecessor's presentation and ha in some parts might and may agree, although I am when it comes to this legal amendment rather skeptical whether the change of this legislative framework and the regulation itself is any guarantee that political practice will change. It was written or not that it was evident that whoever was caught in some corrupt act and illegal behaviour would be sanctioned in one way or another so that the prime minister, the Prime Minister himself would eliminate him, whether it would have to be done by force of this law or simply be unsustainable or it would happen in such a way as to spectacularly carry out arrests by early dawn, weekend, etc. members of the government. So I don't see anything unacceptable in the very proposal of this law. But this is a great opportunity for me to actually remind myself of something else. When we talk about our government as an important institution of the entire political system of this country, then it seems to me that the growing gap between what the constitutionally in the system of parliamentary democracy could and should do, what it does, how it behaves and how it relates to other institutions in this country, and primarily to the highest legislative body and representative body of this country to the Croatian Parliament. In the last three weeks, something has happened that I have to tell myself personally, and I hope most citizens who know what our friends from Kaptola would say to recognize or read signs along the way, warns of a bad and very dangerous custom. A few months ago, last year, the Social Democrats Club proposed, for example, that I say, a change in the Law on Birth and Parent Support in which it took place, so we took up the stand to hear the voice of parents who have children with particular problems in development and whose fees are really so low that they neither allow basic, the performance of the basic function in fact and they complained and it became a public matter. What happened? I have to say this seems really blasphemous to which even the media in Croatia did not react clearly enough. It happened that the president of the government came out and didn't want to caricate, said this way to me, little man, asked why you didn't come to me. In a state that has laws, which has systems, which should operate under these laws, which has institutions that are obliged to do certain work, etc. Come to me and we'll solve the problem and the problem is solved. That's a scary fact for me. It's really a serious problem for me. What does that message mean? When the Prime Minister's side is added to it, I can do what I want, it gets serious. Believe me, it's getting serious. This representative body, this tall home is so demoted, we are so undetected and crawling we become irrelevant, we become hostages, we are the folk representatives of our own political parties or those who lead these parties to, that we have consciously accepted the role of handlifter for or against. If I'm in opposition, then I have to be against what the ruling party is proposing, even if it's better than I don't know what someone else is proposing. And vice versa. It is not easy being a representative of the ruling party. We have created the practice of saying goodbye to every stupidity must raise your hand and perhaps be ashamed to go away with shame because we have raised our hand for something that we don't intimately agree with. With one memory of one situation that I've been through, which makes me want to tell you because I have some kind of memory, some experience. I sort of rejected one proposal, one amendment from the HDZ opposition, because the ad lemon, everything that came out of the opposition, was rejected, when I took a closer look at that amendment that suggested that I reject it from my associates, then I realized that I was actually wrong, it was a shame because the amendment that was then the opposition proposed was in favor of what I was up for and for what I was representing. I return this, this question of the government's and parliament's relations. This issue of increasing and regulating the number of advisers in the government's office is also very intriguing. In addition to the ministries that have been capacitated to experts, people who know the job, institutions that support these ministries, the increase in the number of advisors is the creation of some kind of parallel I would say very powerful and influential groups around the prime minister and in the government itself that derogates in a certain way and the importance of ministers and ministries. I'm looking at it very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Is that what we need? I am pleased that this law defines precisely the role of advisors, it is about powerful people whom no one has chosen, they have not passed the verification either in the elections, nor have they been confirmed or confirmed in this House, they are chosen by prime ministers and people who are actually looking for certain lobbying services most often skip the ministers and go to advisors who then have, who know they have more political real influence than the ministers themselves. It also weakens the government, it weakens parliament and leads us towards a very dangerous trend that we have the opportunity to look at in our neighbouring countries, which is an increase in the attractiveness of an autocratic model against what we should be strongly advocated in my opinion, which is strengthening Parliament's responsibilities and strengthening parliamentary, liberal democracy that is being threatened more and more and more, and we need to recognise these dangers, even in such laws as, as this one we are now bringing. Please and I appeal that we are all thinking together about how to improve this system and I believe that this system can be in favour of our citizens and that it does not necessarily have to be determined by our serious political differences if we agree on the whole of what we want to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115975	Thank you. We have one request for a break. Here's a colleague of Sacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115976	Here is a late request for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to point out once again, and motivated by the speech of the respected colleague Vidovic and Mr Arsen Bauk, and also by the very short and exhaustive appearance of our secretary of state, I can say that by indignity we will reject this bill precisely for these reasons because the Prime Minister does not need any advisers besides his ministers. He may have advisers in exceptional situations extremely professional but still not be appointed as advisers because I fully agree that it is absolutely fertiliser soil for corruption and it opposes our strategy adopted here by anti-corruption. The Prime Minister may have advisors in every dean of the university, he may have advisors in every lugar, in every worker, in every minister, in every council representative here, he does not need advisers to that end. There's an old saying in smart counseling that doesn't have to, and stupid doesn't help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115977	Thank you. Based on the business provisions, we'll move on, I approve of the break, but we'll continue with the session. A fellow Mažar on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club now has a word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115978	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, as we had the opportunity to hear from the motions of the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are further specific activities and individuals, but also some new newspapers are being introduced that are related above all and to transparency, but I would also say about anti-corruption activities. We could therefore, for this reason, hear that the powers of the chief secretary of government are more precisely defined. The status of special advisers and members of government-based councils is also more detailed, and the legal provision is also made for the abolition of immunity to members of the government for corrupting criminal offences that are being prosecuted under official duty. The proposed amendments shall be made in a clear way that all persons, independently of working-legal status, who have expertise, can be appointed to carry out special adviser’s tasks. At the same time, the status of special advisers and members of government-based councils is further regulated. This proposal provides for the appointment of a member of the Board and provides for the obligation to publish information on special advisers and members of the Board. The special advisers and members of the council will also be obliged to sign a declaration of interests and impartiality within 8 days of the appointment. It is precisely the adoption of these provisions that will strengthen the preventive anti-corruption mechanism, that a clear and unequivocal fight against corruption will continue, which is founded in the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 2021 to 2030, and a clear direction towards the implementation of the policy and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the future. This is just one of the elements that are being passed on to the overall reform and the integration of all modern anti-corruption systems into Croatian legislation and this process in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will continue. Also, the Republic of Croatia will meet another recommendation by GRECO from the fifth evaluation round, which is certainly to welcome and commend. In line with the government's programme, it is proposed that immunity be abolished for members of the government for corrupt crimes carried out under official duty. Therefore, criminal proceedings can also be conducted without prior government approval. Amendments and additions to the Government Act represent an important step towards strengthening the transparency and accountability of the executive authority in the continued repression of corruption. Its concrete and direct legislative changes show a clear political vision by the Croatian government and will raise certain standards to a much, much higher level and give much stronger strength to the existing legislative framework in the overall fight against corruption and corruption. The code of conduct of state officials in the executive authorities adopted and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in May of this year is also attached. In just a few months, a number of legislative proposals have been adopted that show that there is a clear plan, there is clear dynamics and a way to achieve an effective and strong fight against corruption. The fight against corruption must be permanent, and it reflects that the police, the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK are doing their job independently, secretly, impartially and that corruption is being permanently eradicated at all levels. Finally, let me look back on my colleague Vidovic, who in some way expressed his share while he was a minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia and now as a representative of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament and myself personally and there was a joyous step of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but we could see in the last vote in the Croatian Parliament that the majority had accepted certain amendments to the opposition. Practically at each vote, certain amendments to the opposition have been accepted. I think that's good. And we could also see that during some legislative proposals most of the members who make up the majority in the Croatian Parliament did not always vote for certain proposals. Therefore, I think that there is also a step in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the very trail of what counterpart Vidovic said we should not, nor should we be hand raisers but must be representatives of our people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have chosen us for this reason. On the other hand, the fact that some and opposition representatives with healthy eyes and do not see the progress of the Republic of Croatia in different directions, says perhaps the best indicator today of the competitiveness scale where the Republic of Croatia has made a strong and significant jump from 13 places from 59 to 46th place of the world's competitiveness list and that no other country has recorded such a strong leap this year. This certainly shows that the Republic of Croatia is not only implementing the reforms and measures it has put into the programme but certainly both business efficiency and productivity and governance and all that is done despite the pandemic, despite the 2 earthquakes, despite the aggression on Ukraine, shows that the laws that we bring to the Croatian Parliament and the programmes and strategies brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are still being monitored, seen and evaluated. I believe that this law will also go in this direction, I believe that this bill will make another step in the fight against corruption because I believe that corruption has no omens or parties has its own name and last name and that one day we will all be able to look behind ourselves and tell future generations that we have achieved something to create a better, more transparent, fairer and fairer Republic. All this, according to the HDZ, for the purpose and this proposal for the law also has the preservation and strengthening of the institutions of the state, and therefore the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115979	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate on behalf of the clubs. One individual debate has been reported, she is a respected representative of Jura Bourkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115980	Dear Vice President, dear fellow MPs and deputies, why do we even have the Government Act? What he says is that he prescribes the structure, mode of work, decision-making and type of acts that the government is essentially giving a legal framework for the government's behaviour, puts it to work according to the law, not so that it could not work differently but simply to see what the interest of citizens is and how, how the interest of citizens is protected, which is that the government is working under the law. In these amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing here for the second time today, I really thought it would be an amendment to the law as the most important thing to allow criminal proceedings against a member of the government for all corrupt crimes without prior government approval. I still think it's the most important thing in these amendments and the additions to the law. However, I am sorry that some fellow MPs are also probleming the problem of the government's advisers or setting up with specific advice because these amendments and additions to the Government Act are precisely prescribed which so far did not mean who could be appointed as a member of the Council, that he is obliged to publish the information publicly and that he is also obliged to sign statements on the interests and impartiality of the special advisers. That's why I think they've removed any possibilities, so it seems to me that someone's been misbehaving. Now whether any of the presidents of this future or any of the next governments that are working under this law are going to bring some advice that perhaps the opposition will not like it again remains on the domain of personal experience, but certainly cannot be said to be illegal. And it certainly can't be said that the Prime Minister doesn't need any advisors. I think everyone in life at least needs some advice at some point, and especially at some key moments when the Prime Minister makes significant decisions that will have an effect not only today and tomorrow but in the long run on our whole, our nation and beyond maybe. So I think this law is because it sets out the correct and clear rules of conduct of the Prime Minister's advisors would tribal all welcome. And what's most important about what's changing is that it can be made possible, it makes it possible to conduct a criminal procedure without the government's prior consent, it's unfortunately something that we're all now aware of without the recommendations of GRECO that it's become somehow I'm not going to say daily, but it's become something we're no longer surprised at when it happens. Now I just want to look at one thing that's not an endemic and special situation just with us in the Republic of Croatia. Such things happen around the world and even in the developed democracies of Western Europe. If we go back a little bit and remember Italy and the government of Bettina Craxia, the socialist who led to the fall of the first republic in Italy because of a large and wide-ranging and widespread corruption, she argues that this is not something new to us that came out of the communist system where bribery and corruption was so widespread at every level from porters to, to the president of the municipality or anything else, and therefore it is good for the government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of the HDZ to see such things and try to prepare as best legal frameworks for such corruption to no longer be. Evidence that the Croatian government, led by HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic, is fighting corruption, comes to us daily. Today, we heard from a fellow Hungarian that Croatia jumped from 59 to 46 places on the global competitiveness scale. And this is, in particular, because it is worth fighting corruption, creating a better business climate, preventing money laundering, better governance at all levels and reducing administrative barriers. Croatia would not have achieved such a step if it hadn't done so. Normally not all of this is due exclusively and only the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they are in charge of this in essence of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have become normal that in a normal, regulated Western world there are laws and rules of conduct to live by. I see as well as the face of the fight against corruption that we are entering the euro zone from January 1st next year, and I hope to enter the same date as the Schengen area. Time.. this. [[Thank you. and it all contributes.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115981	You have three replicas, the first colleague of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115982	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My esteemed colleague had a lot of words about counselors, and I think they're counselors, and I'm saying that based on my 35-year work experience, they're very welcome. You were the head of the local administration, so for this law it is very important to define both the role and who can be a consultant and that it should not be looked at so that everyone can be a counselor. Why? Because the counselor then has this, the law also has responsibility for what he advises and someone, this time the prime minister. We can talk about someone else now. I don't see any problem with that. And I'm interested in, like, you as a local head of counsel on what kind of experience these are, and would it be good if they were regulated, so maybe there's some benefits to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115983	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115984	Thank you very much, we just heard some folk proverbs, and in us is at least a folk proverb that man and cargo know better than I am a man. And now I'm kind of taught about it when you don't know to ask, when you suspect talk and it's all done in order to and as head of the unit of local self-government, and also as a citizen and as a father and as anything else I do something good for myself and my people and my city and my country of work. So I don't think there's any harm to be accurately and clearly prescribed by what kind of advisors and how they must behave must be given to the Prime Minister. I wish it could be brought down to both lower and lower levels and to the leaders of units of regional and local self-government because at least then it would formalise the relationship. As we have seen, a statement is signed that they are not in conflict of interest and this means a lot in any future business and suspicions that something was wrong or unlawfully done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115985	Thank you. The next replica is Vice President Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115986	Dear colleague, you know there's less. If you were able to stop the praise of this government and tell them that the HDZ who is the leader of the battle against corruption would be easier and you wouldn't have put me in a position to tell you That I don't know in the environment that it ever happened that in the 6 years of one government so many ministers 25 ministers had been replaced by at least 15, I didn't count them, replaced by suspicion of corrupt acts and dishonest behavior, 15. [[Intruder: Just say the word.]] I don't remember that in the history of Croatian governments there have been so many examples of ministers' shifts due to unholy acts of corruption, so neither in our history nor in the environment. And I don't remember any government president having to go to defend his ministers so many times, he'd say you could get on your eyelashes, and then he'd have to replace them. So don't move the cat for the tail that's One of the weakest points of this one, this one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Governments. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115987	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115988	I thank you, Your Honor, I am not surprised that you do not remember and marvel but I will remind you of what this is about. That's because the judiciary works independently, independently of the government, regardless of the government's president. Your president at the time of the former SDP party, your former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, and he is also surprised and surprised that the state and the State's Attorney's Office are doing their job without the government's involvement. Well, of course you can be surprised because they used to be some arches, they used to work one way, so I went back a little bit more into the past, and now this government has been working in the interest of only the citizens of the Republic and in all legally given frameworks. Every violation of the law has its name and last name, there are institutions to say exactly who's to blame for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115989	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115990	238, 238, is the most frequently injured article of the Rules of Procedure, and in this case, a colleague presented one piece of information that really offended all those people who ran the judicial and this persecution systems 6 years ago, claiming that the theft was a crime, that they were not doing their job. It's just an insult... for all those people who did it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115991	Okay, okay, now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've actually replicated your colleagues, so I'm giving you a heads-up. And the last replica of my fellow Mazhar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115992	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleague Brkane, and today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Government Act is a step forward we have heard not only in the transparency, efficiency and anti-corruption strategy that has been adopted, and therefore I am not surprised that also fellow Vidovic may be a little strange to talk about in an open, transparent and clear way today about fighting corruption. I don't know how much, as far as I know, none of what counterpart Vidovic mentioned to the official is even that the indictment was filed, let alone that he was convicted of corruption. So let us leave and stick to the presummation of innocence, and I understand his surprise, because during both their rule and the Social Democratic Party when Mayor Mercel and the former mayor of Vukovar were both arrested and convicted and convicted, they were still party members. So you can see then the relationship to corruption today. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115993	I don't know who you're replicating, but okay. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115994	Thank you. Like I said, no, we're not going into any tensions right now, you know, raising tensions because I'm the tension here in these amendments and the additions to this law shouldn't be. The law is good, changes and additions to the laws that are proposed are good quality. They empower us, they empower us, I see us as legislators but also Croatian people because they force the government to behave in accordance with the law and precisely define the things that should be. Everything that has been in the past, everyone serves honor the way he did. I know that I personally did not participate, a large, large majority of HDZ members did not participate in this, and those who did should be ashamed and ashamed of them normally when proven guilty in court. The members of any other party, too. I therefore believe that this law can only bring good to the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, and we can continue this good rhythm that we're going with the euro area, with Schengen, and here we are with the jump from 13 places on the competitiveness scale. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-15-0.u115995	You can go to your seat. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The meeting continues on Friday 17 June at 9:30 with a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2020. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day and tomorrow's body. See you Friday, goodbye. Session interrupted at 16.47 p.m.
