ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u102885	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u102886	Thank you very much, esteemed President, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Nature Protection Act, the arboretum... Botanical Garden and City... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is a monument to park architecture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an artificially designed space with aesthetic, stylish, artistic, cultural and historical and educational value and are protected by law. Arboretum represents a variety of domestic, foreign trees and shrubs where biological properties and relationships of different trees and bushes are studied. They are also established within different scientific and educational institutions or botanic gardens, and can be built as public green areas or parks. In the Republic of Croatia today there are 4 arboretums, which are the Trieste near Dubrovnik, the brick near Varazdin, the arboretum of the University of Shumar in Zagreb and Liscina near Podravska Slatina. It is interesting that Croatia also had the first arboretum in the world, and that is exactly Trieste. It is believed that there was already 1492. I will look here a little more at the arboretum of the brick next to Varazdin. The Arboretum of Opeka is located within the periway around the same name castle in the village of Marcan in the municipality of Vinica, with an area of about 64 hectares with more than 100 thousand examples of trees, bushes, landscapes and flowers. The diversity and richness of plants belong to the world-famous parks of English style. With Maksimir and Križovljangrad, brick is Croatia's most valuable park. His history dates back to the 17th century, more precisely in 1674 in the 50th century, he was operated by a gardener's home, a kindergarten school and a dormitory home, and was declared by the Republic Nature Protection Institute in 1961 by a horticular monument. In 1969, however, the Croatian Restaurant Institute produced no idea sketches of reconstruction. In the 1980s, a new arrangement was planned, this time for the purposes of the Arboretum of bricks from Vinica. Some of the funds were provided to start the work, but due to lack of further funds, the work was interrupted and the castle continued to fail. After it took 30 years for everyone to agree on the purpose of the castle and the arboretum of the brick, and which has also caused mistrust and skepticism, now it is working there and the Castle of Opeka will be restored for 1.5 years and will remain the representative seat of the regional centre of competence in agriculture. The castle will accommodate the following facilities, genetic seed base, laboratory for testing the quality of reproductive material, laboratory for testing the quality of vegetable oils, wine, honey and soil, classroom and partucium for endrology and garden design, wine practice, wine cellar, wine cellar, wine taster, floristics centre, accommodation facilities for students, teaching staff and guests. There will also be training for the profession of horticultural technician and new subject designing and designing gardens, gardens and parks. It is especially important that adult education programmes, such as beekeepers and florists, will be organised there. Thanks to European funds, up to now, a total investment of 150 million has been agreed on by 92 million, out of which the Varazdin County as the founder of the school separates 13 million kuna. This project is a big step not only for Vinica and Varazdin County but also for all of northwestern Croatia. This regional competence centre will also take an additional step in the education of young people, as well as adults, and thus step into agricultural production. I would also like to add that the dream of all the Vinicans is realized, and especially the late Commissioner Marijan Kostanjec, to whom it was one of the most important projects and his life dream that, when it comes, he always has his guardian angel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103121	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13,18 HOURS]] I can or don't have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This one, therefore, but as we have announced, we will now go to the presentations on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives and the first one will speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, respected representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103122	Thank you, Chairman. For the past two days, I participated in Mali Losinj at a meeting of the principals of primary and secondary schools, especially yesterday on a round table, and perhaps for the first time I felt one form of shame because I am doing this job that should be all but embarrassing. Obviously, the perception of Croatian society, including school principals, is such that politics is due to inaction and in the past, and today also causes disgust, and then politicians. And on the other hand, if we are talking specifically about principals of primary and secondary schools, other form or other reason why he feels disgust probably are or have reason actually in the school board members who come from the policy order, of course not in general but always individually. The current Law on Education and Education provides an opportunity for a person who is running for director to be able to keep his post as director for 2 consecutive term of office. Thus, coming to a responsible function and leading function of a particular educational institution. If we're talking about schools, it's certainly the only one in our entire country within which a person gets a second term if he achieves a new term as headmaster there's nowhere to go back. A similar example in order to make things more clear to us and to find out in the not so distant past when it comes to Mrs. Maria, the director who acted as a director for 22 years, when she was 62, she did not get a new term and the lady from her 62 years of life after 22 years of running the system ended up on the labour market. This kind of generosity or other words is one form of inaction, therefore, nowhere, absolutely nowhere in the Republic of Croatia in any system we can find. Except for the unfair question is that we really here in this house think, think or feel about people who live on our streets outside of this building or those who operate certain systems. Given that we are about to have changes to the law mentioned, what I expect is that the job for the directors at the end of the office of director in a particular school is to be permanently changed to indefinitely. From the present set to undefined that it would never happen again that a person like Mrs. Maria at 62 years of age after 22 years of school management would end up on the labour market. Politics often argues that the school board should have before the founders 3 of its members. Justifying it as if they should take care of financial resources. So it is more than clear through the financial plans that each school is obliged to bring and send to the founder as well as through financial reports that such an argument does not stand since reports and plans can be very well controlled when they are provided by a particular institution that is obliged to provide it to the founder himself. What I certainly still expect should be incorporated into the new law is one form and mentoring of the director in the first term, given that this is not the case now. I remember when I was 30 years old alone and when you're dealing with a little more than 80 legal and sublegal acts that a man wants to go back to class and leave a certain function to someone else because you have no one to learn from because the law doesn't allow mentorship, and you have no one to ask. And you're responsible and you're a rag that erases everything. What I certainly expect is that the new law should be incorporated with all of this mentioned earlier are assistant directors. In systems where you have over 150 employees, you manage the facility yourself, you are the housekeeper, the janitor and everything a particular school has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103296	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103297	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday evening I was thinking about a topic that is current in Croatia, it is also current at global level today or centres of power, it is a difficult topic and at one point I simply decided not to think about it, it turned on Facebook, and the first post that was found on Facebook was the next thought. The reminder to you is still catholic, nothing means a thousand religious quotes to which you are giggling that the world sees you as a spider on which the feathers are covered with water paint until the first rain. You mean nothing to pilgrimages with beautiful routes and walks to publish on social networks, to some thumbs or hearts. And yes, nothing means to you fake humanism and action and hugging the powerless with a smile as much as the one that got paid for a toothpaste commercial. If you keep silent about the murders of the unborn, that silence reveals that it's all another lie, a huge lie and a quote that you point out, and the steps you walk through, and the man you embrace with your claws, and you reward from your heart and God deep down in it on a child, that's where everything falls. This is a topic that is extremely, extremely difficult, not only on the ideological side, but on the world view. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirela Cavida goes through I'd say a very difficult situation, wouldn't want anyone going through that situation, but she's going through it. I even agree with her, she said yesterday "I don't consider this an abortion, it's a simple end of life," I totally agree it's an end to one life. I don't want to be long on this subject because I don't, I don't, I'm not a person who can judge anyone, and I'm not here to judge anyone, but I'm going to take this opportunity and invite everyone to participate this Saturday in Varazdin's life walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103404	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103405	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, are still reviewing the week. We got bad news on Monday, no one wants to go back to Croatia. Namely, the government's package of measures, Iram Croatia, in force from January 1st, with the government with 200,000 kuna, wants to stimulate the return of people from abroad, managed to produce a flat zero of course if we don't count Nikola Kalinic, who returned to Iduk. Just as successful as the establishment of the HDZ branch in Ireland, which was well cracked by the valuable and educated workforce, which, for example, was very interesting in the 2019 elections, well seen through the fact that they received one vote, it was reportedly that the person later called the DIP and justified his choice by a great dioptria and the fact that last night there was a celebration of the son's birth. Dessert race, bonuses in Podravka. President of Management 972 thousand kuna, other members of 641 and something, twice 606 thousand kuna and once 677 thousand and 500, a total of 3 and a half million kuna in one single payment, at the same time the average salary in Podravka somewhere around 4 thousand kuna. In short, the members of the administration were given the bonuses that represented the amount that an ordinary worker would earn in 75. So for that money, a grandfather would have to work 35 more, a japa 35 more, and a sonak would have added his 5 years, and in order to reach the amount of their annual salaries exceeding 20 million kuna, one family would have to drop their sleeves and start working seriously at the time of Matija Gupca. And this Wednesday we saw that the ministers were very comfortable, 8 hospitals in 4 months this year almost paid no kuna for the medicines they spent, the rest of the obligation being paid with a delay of almost two hundred days. Finance Minister Zdravko Maric will have to re-balance the budget for a new hole in the state's wallet because debts for spent medicines exceeded 6 billion kuna, which amounted to 4 billion. Two years after the earthquake neither in Banovina nor in Zagreb when it comes to recovery, nothing. I've got the documents the private investors sent me here. Here they are. People have done everything themselves, spent over three hundred thousand kunas and are currently in an incredible ping-pong game between the Fund for Reconstruction and the Ministry. If people took jobs, people who were paid for it in this country in just a few days would see a nice number of open construction sites, let's say they should remove public procurement for performers in private buildings and let people who are themselves ready to rebuild their facilities, but I'm afraid none of it. In the peaceful shade of its ministerial chair and under the impenetrable umbrella of Andrej Plenkovic, ministers Beros and Paladin are self-satisfactory, and others would be told that hot water was not drunk. Thursday's hit was yesterday's debate on the introduction of the euro. Although we have offered arguments that we are not currently ready to introduce a single currency with the EU, as this is a loss of Croatian sovereignty, as citizens expect a rise in prices and uncertainty about the settlement of basic living costs we could not notice how, for example, in the Czech, Polish and Hungarian parliaments, these are countries that continue to have their national currencies, their minority representatives support such a decision while in our assembly, minority representatives are enthusiastically voting and calling "euro, euro", happy as worthy bees on the fragrant bud of the state budget. And here we are today on Friday, initiatives from the left coalition and the Croatian Parliament's Disbanding Bridge today will certainly be a top topic. The outcome is very clear to all, however, and to each other, they have so far had a lot of opportunities to show up with extremely bad or almost no success. Be free of worry or have no hope however you wish, the assembly will remain until further notice, although it has long since been represented by voters who have sent their representatives there, not a single piece of concern for the better and sovereign Republic and will be so sad to say the supreme generalissimus Plenkovic until otherwise ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103547	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103548	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. More than 2 years ago, so on January 31st, Minister Beros was appointed to succeed the compromised Kujundzic minister. In 2 years, Beroš was able to reach from the hero minister, as he was beaten by Super Vilija, to a minister even Prime Minister Plenkovic put on the list of those to be replaced. Yes, he took over the ministry at a difficult time in the pandemic, but there were too many mistakes and his resolute ministry and the National Staff. There was no such thing as waist or opposition to the absence of these mistakes. For example, in Croatia more than 275,000 doses of vaccines against Covida-19 were destroyed, and this should not have happened and we warned about that. Our health care system is always working on the enthusiasm of healthcare professionals. Yes, we have a large number of medicines on lists, aids, technology, but health funding is not good, health care restrictions, especially hospitals are insufficient for normal business, waiting lists are huge. No cost-benefit analysis is conducted in all segments of health care, which we keep talking about. Health care chokes on huge debts, citizens wait too long for health services, there are a large number of chronic illnesses, poor treatment outcomes, unsatisfactory patients and healthcare professionals. Nearly 315 thousand insurance companies are more than residents in the country, 6.3 billion kuna was a health recovery in 2021, more than 6 billion kuna is the current debt of hospitals and pharmacies according to large-scale drugs. The monthly debt increased by 400 million to 500 million kuna, talking about 250 to 300 million kuna last year, and 8 hospitals did not pay the kuna in 2022 for medicines. Hospitals have remained stockpiles for just a few weeks, even the HDZ director at the Dubrovnik General Hospital says the situation is unpleasant, and will threaten us again not to deliver drugs. 104 teams of family medicine are without carriers, which means they do not have a permanent doctor, 185 doctors in the family are over 65 years old, so we are already almost 300 doctors, almost a third so 700 of them are over 60, but only 143 doctors specialize in family medicine. The medical system lacks about 6,000 medics, mostly nurses and family doctors. The emergency medical reform is located somewhere in the ministry drawer since 2016, we are second in the EU for cancer mortality, and HDZ Minister Nakic abolished the 72-hour programme for patients who need rapid diagnostics and treatment of malignancies. In the media, we read a little bit about health care affairs every day. It was only 30 December that the government of the Republic of Croatia decided last year to adopt a National Health Development Plan for the period 2021 to '27. and the Health Development Action Plan for the period from 2021 to 2025, so we are late again. We've been listening to health reform for years, six years. The HDZ did not pass any laws that would allow the necessary reforms, only at the end of the 6th month this year reportedly go to public consultation for the Health Protection Act and where it remains. I am particularly sorry because I respect Minister Beros as a fellow doctor because of a number of affairs in his ministry and still argues that there is nothing controversial, even though the revision also points him to dubiosis and the need for greater transparency. He says someone's setting me up, so why doesn't he tell me who, why doesn't he investigate and replace the guilty, or he's guilty. Let's remind ourselves of all the corrupt public procurement from the Ministry of Health, the development of the vaccination platform "VpiSe" entrusted by Minister Beros to Cuspis d.o.o. owned by his acquaintance and photographer, Vinko Kojundzic, who has been overpaid, means 600,000 kuna. Furthermore, at the end of 2020, the same company paid 2.75 million kuna, 6750 working hours for only 12 days and five employees. Again, since 2018, the same company has been getting more intensive jobs just as Minister Beros has come to the ministry, up to now 20 million kuna. Well then this last, an affair with an intra-operable radiation device that paid 11.2 million kuna, and its actual value is even 6 million kunas, then tenders without public procurement, etc., etc. So we've actually been, like, almost two years now. We keep hearing about affairs, we don't see the necessary reforms being carried out, the health care is stifled with affairs and debt, whether it's time for the HDZ government to leave, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u103549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107441	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. On the basis of Art. 247 of the HS Rules of Procedure, I propose we hold a united debate on today's two points. These are: - Proposal for a Decision on the Disbandment of the Croatian Parliament; Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, Club of Representatives of the Social Democrats, Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Civil-Liberal Alliance, Club of Representatives of the Focus and Independent Representatives, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Workers' Front, Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly and Club of the Green-Left bloc; and: - Proposal for a Decision on the Disbandment of the Croatian Assembly; Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Do we agree with this proposal? Thank you very much. So we're going to have a united debate on these points. These proposals for decisions shall be based on Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. So just to clarify the rules, the first promoters of these several clubs of MPs, 20 minutes later, the Club of Representatives Mosta 20 minutes and then the debate of clubs that have 10 minutes and individually, of course, 5 minutes, as is the case with the fact that between the debates, the promoters can always answer the word. So, we're starting now with, but no, before that we have a request for a break, colleague Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107442	Thank you, esteemed president of HS, on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns, I request a 10-minute break to discuss this proposal. In fact, political apathy, indifference has ruled in Croatia for years. The cause of such a mental state of the Croatian people is clientelism, corruption and crime. The cause of such a mental state is the work of all governments to date, including this one, and the evidence of clientelism, corruption and crime in this government is confirmed by the state services, but I am also part of the Prime Minister who confirms by his actions that Marin Pilletić and Anja Simpraga are players from the bench, usually replacements for Aladrovic and Milosevic, whose doors are still open if they prove their independence. It means I'm the Prime Minister who doubts their integrity, and I put them in that position and chose them. The minimum we were looking for was the reconstruction of the government, but we didn't get it either, we got the replacement players. It would be fair for the majority of parliament to decide and call new elections, but knowing their work so far would be illusory to expect such an expectation. I once again appeal to all members of the ruling majority, including coalition partners to call new elections and that the Croatian people really say what they think of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107443	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107444	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 10-minute break in order to once again send a message to the senselessness of the proposal and debate in the HS on the decision to disband HS. If colleagues from the opposition who proposed this and such a decision had the argument to propose a decision to disband the parliament, they would then have convinced in that argument a sufficient number of MPs in the HS to then take a position and situation in which the parliament would be disbanded. In fact, by checking the stability of the government, by checking the stability of the ruling majority, certain acts need to be carried out by the half majority in the HS. We in the HS and Croatian public in Croatia testify that such a check was carried out 8 days ago when changes occurred in the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia by appointment of the new three ministers. Had there been instability in the ruling majority, had the government not had parliamentary support, there would have been a situation in which the issue of extraordinary elections would have been raised, the parliament's disbandment. But in the fact that, from the first day of this term to today, not just any act for which, that act for which the supremacy of all MPs is necessary is precisely to which the Government is appointed, but not in any other act that we have made in the House has not been supported by the government under 76 MPs enough to talk about the inexcusability of the debate on such a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107445	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107446	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club just to point out once again that such a synergy of HS is not a reflection of the will of the citizens and that the HS needs to be dissolved. Unlike Mr. Bačić, my colleague, who believes that everything that is important in HS to count 76 hands, I think it is much more important, that we in Mosta think that it is much more important to show people that politics is an honorable job and that it is working for the good of Croatian citizens, and not that in different ways, different combinations of pre-elections, saying that you have safe Croatia because you ate the crown, and now as a snake legs you hide the number of dead, and after that you have already in Remetic Ministers newly accused, but I don't know how many times the humbled governments, so I don't think the citizens knew it because they knew that such a meeting of Croatian Parliament would choose. And it is much more important whether we represent the interest of Croatian citizens here or we can count to 76, because I think that if people knew in Croatia that after the election, most of them would agree on a way to buy and sell who they were on the market, so I don't think they would choose them. I think we should all ask ourselves before exactly what we represent to Croatian citizens. That we can count to 76, that we can buy or sell or work for their interest. I don't think the government whose ministers end up in prisons is working for people's interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107447	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107448	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to find out again why we're actually here today and why we're looking for a disbandment of parliaments and new elections. The argument that counterpart Bacic has just presented, which is that the ruling coalition is continuously stable and that at no time there was instability in the coalition of parties that are in power is not Mr. Bacic's argument for your continued work. It is a symptom and an argument on which we can clearly confirm how much the political system and the political scene in Croatia are rotten because coalition partners who tolerate the ministers driving in police cars are one by one, who tolerate that they remain in the functions of the ministers against whom criminal investigations are being conducted, who tolerate the one who was taken to the police car being replaced by another who should have already been in Remetec, I am talking about Mr Paladin, who tolerate you from year to year to year to send a reform plan in which one is always the same and none of it has been implemented. This is a sign to Bacic that the coalition is stable due to private interests and party interests, and that everything else in this country is unstable. That the unstable economy, that our unstable energy security, our food security, everything else is unstable is just trade between parties stable. And that's why you need to ask for a disbandment, not why you should continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107449	Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we'll keep working. On behalf of the group of club representatives, the first one will be spoken by a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107450	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this morning we heard from Mr. Bačić an interesting thesis, and this thesis is about to say that those who do not have a majority in the Croatian Parliament should not actually propose anything. That the voice of the opposition and those who think otherwise in Croatia should not be heard. Because respected colleagues and colleagues are dangerous. It is dangerous for democracy, it is dangerous for the democratic order of the Republic of Croatia. And that is another proof why such discussions in the Croatian Parliament are necessary. Why it's necessary to talk, point out things that don't work and that need to be fixed. And respected colleagues and colleagues are our task to try to convince you, and this debate is here today precisely because we are going to put arguments before you, which will put before you the reasons why this Croatian Parliament, this ruling majority, and especially this government must go away. And then it's up to you to decide whether or not you want to respect the arguments or the interest. The interest of the party or most of which you belong. Now that's the decision you're gonna make. You'll bring it in next week when we vote, but today we'll talk about what doesn't work and what's wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each government's task is to ensure the functioning of the state. The task of every government and so on is to ensure that the state does its job. The task of each government and so on is to ensure that in times of crisis, pandemics, wars, inflation, price increases ensure a standard of living. The government's job is to take care of health care, education, social security, the fight against corruption. The question we have to ask ourselves today, and in answer to that question it should depend on how we vote next week is, does Plenkovic's government do it? Did Plenkovic's government manage to secure the standard? Did Plenkovic's government manage to secure quality health care? Has the government been able to provide good education? Is Plenkovic's government fighting corruption? Does it protect the interests of citizens and citizens of this country? Unfortunately, and I repeat, unfortunately because we all live in this Croatia, this is our country and the consequences of the work and disorder of Plenkovic's government we all feel. And so I say and repeat again, unfortunately the answer to that is no. Plenkovic's government does absolutely none of what it should do and what it does. Due to constant affairs, due to criminal proceedings by Minister Horvat, Aladrovic, Ćoric, Vice President Milosevic today, and before that by Žalac, Kuščević, Tolusic, Romec etc. 'Cause it's really not enough these 20 minutes to count it all. This government doesn't have time to do its job. Information on the work of this government will be found on the pages of "Black Chronicle" rather than in the section "Politika" and it is respected colleagues and colleagues our reality. Instead of this government and this ruling majority dealing with the real problems that the citizens of this country are dealing with, this government and the ruling majority are dealing exclusively with themselves, alone, and only themselves, and respected colleagues and colleagues of real problems are many, first of them inflation, price increases. We have repeatedly said inflation at this point is not only a Croatian problem, but the Croatian problem of how we will deal with that inflation. Inflation and rising prices feel every time they go to the store, when they go to the gas station, when they get bills for directors, fuel, gas, electricity, food, bread, milk, oil, everything goes up from day to day, the price of flour is at 10 kuna colleagues and colleagues, 10 kuna. Yes, we brought in the first package of aid and anti-inflation measures, but from the moment it was presented it was three months ago, and what was done in the meantime, what was the matter? For example, this week, Italy sent a major programme of assistance not only to citizens but also to the economy to deal with the crisis caused by war and inflation, 400 000 euros in support of entrepreneurs who are directly threatened by the Ukrainian crisis and war in Ukraine, there is no such thing in Croatia. Did we bring in a measure in Croatia that would, for example, ensure that the value of the pension does not fall, such as the harmonisation of pensions? At the beginning of this year, only a small part of the average salary, the share of average pensions in the average salary was low, by the end of the year will be even smaller. The real value of pensions under inflation conditions of almost 8% will fall radically. Where are the support for entrepreneurs affected by inflation, the energy crisis and the consequences of the war in Ukraine? I mentioned only Italy, 400 thousand euros directly plus a number of indirect loans, etc., in Croatia none of that will start closing jobs. And you know why there's nothing wrong with that? Because, for example, the minister who was to deal with the pensions of Mr. Aladrovic had a major problem, he handled his criminal procedure. Minister Ćoric, who was supposed to be in support and help the economy, read in the paper that he was directly accused of participating in an affair of serious billions of kuna, and then, behold, the miracles were left for fatigue, due to fatigue, not because he was waiting for the USKOK to knock on his door on one Saturday morning. It's a fight against inflation. Health care, 2. Covid crisis and covid pandemics. It's been difficult for all of us and I speak for myself, but I believe that many people feel that way, it's very strange when we can get into our workplace and into the store without having to put on masks, but it's only temporary relief. The consequences of the covid crisis in Croatia, the consequences of the pandemic are 15 thousand dead, to the number of inhabitants one of the largest numbers in Europe and the world, one of the worst results, and that is only a direct consequence. The increase in the number of diseases we thought were a thing of the past such as hepatitis that we have witnessed in recent days is an indicator of how badly we have done our job, and then, on Tuesday, Minister Maric comes out to all the Croatian public and informs us that health debts at monthly level are growing at 400 to 500 million kuna, 6 billion kuna at year level. It's a figure that's almost unimaginable, but that's reality. And you know what the worst part is? All of us on this side of the assembly have you on budget for 2022. warned that this is exactly the amount in the state budget missing, you shook your hand, and again we brought ourselves into the situation that the hospital's obligations are not being paid, that the debts are being accumulated, and that tomorrow we will be shocked again and surprised and surprised when one of the wholesalers decides to suspend the delivery of medicines to Croatian hospitals, again, although it is exactly the same as last year and as it has been repeated in many years before. Of course, how do you think this affects the quality of health care received by our citizens, waiting lines, and anything else related to the quality of health care? In no way, bad, catastrophic, and if there is a reform reportedly since April of last year, squats in Plenkovic's desk and waits for someone to deal with it, probably because Minister Beroš is dealing with health care reform rather than dealing with public procurement, and then a device that costs 4 million and 200 thousand kuna plus the VAT state pays 9 million kuna plus VAT, only twice as much and legitimately wonders where the difference went, completely legitimately and legitimately to ask how many other such public procurements are in the Ministry of Health, but also in many others? Instead of doing his job, another minister in the government has problems. The reconstruction stands, more than two years after the earthquake in Zagreb and a year and four months after the earthquake in Banija, and not because the funds are not secured, Europe has made them available to us, but because they are not responsible for doing their job. What did we testify to? That's the only thing Vangelic-Horvat-Plenkovic did. And today, people live in containers, and there comes to them a difference of electricity in tens of thousands of kunas, and all of them wash their hands and immediately. We failed to use the resources available to us, we failed to secure the European funds or the funds that we singled out in the budget, so last year we had to cut that part down because we were unable to use it. We're not capable. It's overly bureaucratic, complicated, stalled by people who have self-renovated their property don't pay off the funds that belong to them under the law. And why is that? Because he was being held against Horvat because he was arrested. For the first time in more than 20 years, a member of the current government was arrested, for the first time, for the first time. And then what do we get? We get Paladina, we get Paladina, and when you think it can't go up, then instead of Horvat, there comes Paladin, a man who every day from the moment he became minister spent explaining how he acquired his property and how he broke the law somewhere. A man doesn't have time to do his job as a minister of construction and care and restoration, he simply doesn't have time. A few weeks ago, he presented some kind of plan and five points, but no one knows what those five points specifically mean, but he presented it. And when a few days ago he was invited to a board and HS session and said what those five points were, which was the answer, people needed more time. It's a reality, it's a reality, it's a reality when it comes to the reconstruction of Banija, Zagreb. There are far more than a million people living in earthquake - affected areas, people being torn down houses, some living in containers, and the help promised by the law simply does not come, and it does not come because the government is not able to deal with it because there are more pressing problems, and these problems are affairs. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what about fighting corruption? Where's the fight against corruption? She's gone. To the place of one corrupt minister, the second is coming to the place of one corrupt secretary of state and only the actions of the USKOK are being set aside. Well, even those people in the state's attorney's office and the police don't get to arrest them at the speed that the new ministers and secretary of state are coming to, that's too much for them. The reform of the social care system, a lot of nothing. The only thing that's happened is that social workers have been introduced by a new administration, new bureaucracy, paperwork, even more time in offices, and tomorrow we'll be surprised that social workers haven't been able to do their job and be in the field with people who really need help. And we'll be surprised again that there's been some tragedy because the social worker didn't have time to intervene, and he didn't make it because you buried it with papers, and that's all you were able to do in the welfare facility. The green transition available to Croatia is billions, billions that in times of energy crisis could provide our citizens with smaller bills for electricity, and our society as a whole with energy independence, and that we do not have to worry about whether Putin will turn oil or not, and that we do not have to look for an exemption in Brussels. On the one hand, there are all kinds of people out here who are cremated or I know what they are, and in Brussels you're looking for an exception so that Putin can continue to pay for the oil that he's going to wage the war. And where's the green transition? She fell on the backs of Krš-Padena, fell down there, fell down on the Coric, fell down on the Romans, fell down on the number of characters who managed to turn that into a way to draw money for their pockets and green transition. Agriculture, they're giving us back our programs, they're taking away our funds. We're getting our programmes back because they're no good, so we're going to be late to pay off what's coming down from the EU funds, and that's going to be reduced because the agriculture ministry is unable to do its job. One of the reasons is for sure and constant presence of OLAF at the Ministry of Agriculture where it explores all those marifettelucas of today's, former ministers, directors, etc. People don't get to do their job. You know when you have to prepare the paperwork to hand it over to the police and the state's attorney's office, you still don't get to do your job, and that's reality and the Ministry of Agriculture. EU funds, where are the operational programmes? The budget period of 2021-2027, we were fat in 2022, where are the operational programmes based on which this state, this society should withdraw money from EU funds? They're gone because the gentlemen aren't capable. The defenses, two hangars we are unable to build and yesterday we read that I to the Ministry of Defence committed to building a safe in which the kunas should be kept when replacing the kuna into the euro, and they are neither able to build, nor hangar nor safe, anything. And at the same time, the police leaks information, and police officers get arrested. This country of respected colleagues and colleagues is unable to worry about the needs of its citizens, but not because we citizens of this country are bad when some of us force opportunities because those 200,000 kunas that Plenkovic has promised do not attract and keep in Croatia or do not force them to return to abroad, citizens and citizens of this country are extremely hardworking, working and hardworking people. It doesn't work here in Croatia for some reason, and that reason has a name and a last name. The Croatian Democratic Union and Andrej Plenkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the opposition is not the majority and it must be clear to you, so the chance that the opposition proposal whenever it is sent to the assembly in any parliament, in any representative body, is a small chance to pass such a proposal, but that does not mean that the opposition should not take it. However, the opposition must do its job, the opposition must insist on what is wrong, the opposition must point out, the opposition must offer alternative solutions. And precisely because at this point there is no alternative until the return of the term of office to the citizens and citizens of this country to decide who will lead Croatia in the period ahead of us, 7 club representatives submitted a motion for the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament and we invite you to All that when we vote on him, support him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107451	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. You have 31 lines, so let's take it in a row. First up, comrade Hajdash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107452	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, do you think that the great thinker, the ideologist of HDZ, a fan of dense cream juice actually cares about people in Sisak-Moslavina County, in the City of Zagreb, in Krapina-Zagorje County who for two years can't actually exercise their fundamental right, which is the right to housing, the right to security. Would this man I sometimes wonder if someone who was easy to do or is totally incapacitated after one minister who ended up in Croatian disgrace in prison choose another who had one of the most dazzling tours in the Croatian political scene?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107453	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107454	Well, dear fellow Highash Doncic, I certainly hope so. I sincerely hope that he cares about citizens who have suffered not only from earthquakes but who are in a difficult living situation for other reasons, because of inflation, price increases. I sincerely hope he cares, but the actions speak differently. And as far as the second part of your replica is concerned, I'll tell you, obviously, the radar was broken or never existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107455	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107456	We've already heard that the health care system generates 500 million kunas of debt every month. This does not drive fear into our bones but justifiably causes in us a chill that we will no longer be able to use health services. Why? That's because the health reform isn't on time. Because we're too deep in debt. And it's re-routing that circle, again in 2021, a post-operative treatment device overpaid 111% from 11.2 million overpaid from purchase value. We can see that drugs are overpaid for too much and too long a debt. Do you think Minister Berosh [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Is that why you should leave? [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107457	Comrade Vupora, please don't go on so cold-bloodedly and I invite everyone, there's a lot of this replica to stick to time for other colleagues. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107458	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Antolic Vopor, health debts are only one part of the problem in fact one side of the medal. The second part of the problem is the quality and availability of healthcare. The other part of the problem is the outcome of the treatment. The other part of the problem is that the citizens of this country are getting for the money they spend either through contributions to health care, or from the tax system. The answer to that problem was supposed to be health reform, but it doesn't exist. She squats somewhere in the empty table of Andrej Plenkovic. And today we focus more on the burning debt problem that could destroy not only the health care but also the general finances of this country, and we forgot that focus should be available and quality health care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107459	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107460	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow coat of arms, we heard here yesterday that this huge inflation that is already at our door, and it could be even bigger, endangering the economy in a way that we can expect the growth of interest rates. Growth in interest rates means reducing investment, especially private investment and what is most important is the threat of recession. How do you stand up to that? And the country's key instrument is exactly what you mentioned about EU funds. Unfortunately, the funds from the previous perspective are very badly used, and at this point we do not have operational programmes, so we do not have key documents for the new financial perspective. So, what can we expect? Does this public sector that is obliged, in some way, to compensate for a potential lack of investment and prevent a recession at this point, capable? So is this government capable of doing it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107461	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107462	The answer to your question is very simple. I will repeat again, unfortunately it is very simple, it is not because it does not do its job and because it does not do its job, we are put into a situation that inflation, which, I repeat, is not only a Croatian problem, is not only our problem, it is a world problem precisely because of the government's lack of work that inflation will in Croatia for the Croatian economy, for the citizens of this country have far greater and far more harmful than it should have. Irregular and disorder, and operational programmes that should allow us to make much more use of EU funds are, in fact, the best indicator of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107463	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107464	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. The State Audit found that at the end of 2020 Vinka Kujundzic, otherwise a friend and photographer of Minister Beros, paid 2.75 million kuna to work on an upgrade of 2 IT systems. The company charged 6 750 hours in just 12 days. I'm asking you, is that where people or robots work? How is it possible in such a small number of days to charge almost 7,000 hours? And despite everything we've read about this company, the company continued its business with the Ministry of Health and jobs is worth an additional 6.5 million kuna. Does that surprise you all? Does it make sense that HDZ's minister continues to run a debt-hungry health system, that citizens fear every day whether they can achieve their health service, and our minister and this HDZ government are not bringing any reform? It's just debts and affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107466	In all of this, I'm surprised at just one thing, how that Musk and Zuckerberg still haven't hired Berosh and his friend to raise their profit margin because neither Tesla nor Facebook are able to make at that level how much money they make when Beros conducts public procurement, especially in the IT sector, but it's not Beroš alone. Pity, let me just mention one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107467	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107468	Dear fellow coat of arms. Would you ever think that it is possible for a HDZ minister who should be working day and night to return to their homes, to end up in an investigative prison for abuse of position and authority because he imposed on his subordinates the approval of the payment of incentives to companies close to him who did not meet the conditions? I should repeat that Plenkovic had just chosen him and that he had not left because of some reshuffle of the government but that man had left because he was incompetent because he abused his position. Do you think it is possible that, do you think it is possible in the HDZ government and do you think Plenkovic can set up a capable and honest minister or is it still an impossible mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107469	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107470	Well, I don't think this last question should be asked at all at all if I think so. It is only necessary to look at ministers who have come in various reconstructions, which were mainly caused by external influences, from plagiarisation to criminal proceedings. I only mentioned some. Zalac, Tolušić, Kuščević before, today Horvat, Aladrović. So history teaches us to go to the wrong place as a rule come up and that's reality. So when you ask me if I can imagine what you were talking about, the answer is unfortunately I can. And I don't even have to, I've had enough to open the paper and look at the black chronicle and I read it there and I see it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107471	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107472	Thank you. Your Honor, it is not true that Minister Vukkovic has problems only with OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Namely, the situation in its portfolio is so disorganised, chaotic that Prime Minister Plenkovic himself had to order staff changes because of the situation and in fact the EU Commission's remarks on the strategic plan for Croatian agriculture. He is concerned that because of the poor strategic plan Croatian agriculture or Croatian farmers could lose a significant part of the European funds in the period 2023-2027, and if our Prime Minister Plenkovic is sensitive to something, it is actually his image of the withdrawal of EU funds that he likes to praise successfully. Are the Croatian farmers not on the radar at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107473	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107474	The arrival of either the Croatian police, whether OLAF, or USKOK, or the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in any ministry is not a problem. That's the result of the problem that existed before. And it's actually the tip of the ice santa on everything that happened in the previous years, and we often actually focus on it even though you would say, and there you're right, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, we should talk about how this works and the recent letter that came from the EU Commission, and it is related to the strategic plan, it has shown that the concept that we should grant support and ensure the strengthening of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture is completely missed. So, on the one hand, we have criminal activity, and on the other, a completely missed concept of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107475	Thank you very much. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107476	Mr. Grbin, a few years ago, your SDP and HDZ raided that the HDZ Constitutional Court was elected Davorin Mlakar, a person who received a commission from Hypo Bank, and on the port of the same Hypo Bank in Klagenfurt was falsely represented by another name. As a SDP, you pushed Andrej Abramovic through as a constitutional judge, who was publicly harassed by his neighbours. This is proof that SDP and HDZ are Siamese twins who jointly control the judiciary. When this is accompanied by your role in Uljanik and the damage you have done for Croatian taxpayers, and your participation in the corruption of your colleague from the HDZ, Branko Bačić, who kept black money in bags in his desk, then it is clear that your SDP and HDZ together hold the judiciary under control and protect corruption as a joint venture of your parties, and contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens. Tell me, what are you offering to Croatian citizens, you may be offering corruption of a different style than HDZ because the rule of law and equality of citizens are certainly not offering.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107477	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107478	I'm sorry, dear colleague Vidovic Kristo, that you haven't had a little more time, you'd probably have come up with the fact that I'm guilty of the Kennedy murders you've been doing. And as for what we offer to Croatian citizens in the fight against corruption, I will not talk about what we say, I will invite you to read the Transparency International reports, and so on which they said that during the last SDP government, Croatia grew in all those indices that showed the rise in the success of the fight against corruption, and then in 2016 everything went wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107479	A colleague of Vidovic Kristo's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107480	Yeah, he's hurt. 238. Because, of course, a colleague of Grbin does not answer the question but somehow laminates some of his half-truths and manipulates the Croatian public. The fact is that you have seriously damaged the state budget and Croatian government officials in the case of Uljanika, and of course you do not answer. Your lamentations are no longer believed, it reminds me very much of the spoiled child of the Communism of Andrej Plenkovic when you begin to praise yourself with nonexistent results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107481	My colleagues Vidović Kristo know that this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, so you get a warning. Here you go, colleague Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107482	Thank you, Honorable President HS. Dear fellow Pedja, why are you from this speaker HS actually lying to the Croatian public that you want to disband HS, when you and I both know that the clubs that signed it, here today not everyone is even here at the debate, there are no representatives of all these clubs. Members of these clubs are in no condition to vote on ministers to come and show their views on it are for the minister or against. On the suggestions you're making from the opposition, you're not as capable as the so-called. The united opposition gathers more than 50 MPs during the vote, and as you have 74. Why do you deceive the Croatian public that you want to disband HS? If that's what you want proof that it's not true, then resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107483	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107484	Dear colleague, this is not Serbia, nor will we ever allow Plenkovic to become a Vučić, Orban or someone like that and allow that pleasure to happen in this assembly so that you never, on the ruling side, discuss too much and measurely about the suggestions of your majority, allow things to go without debate under the radar. My dear colleague, if the MPs of the opposition were to resign, you know that, it wouldn't lead to the disbanding of HS, it would only lead you to 77 who make you the ruling majority plus a few chips, a few chips in preparation like Mr. Zekanovic here can enjoy without anyone asking or questioning them, if they won't, they won't be able to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107485	A colleague of Totgergeli's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107486	Well, my colleague Pedja hurt his ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because he has called us from the ruling that we are not discussing anything with and we do not know the measure of things, and he comes here with a proposal and doesn't speak at all about his proposal, but use this proposal to actually play a game, to talk about everything and everything, and yet he lies to the Croatian public that he wants to disband HS, and most of his members in his club don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107487	Thank you very much, thank you very much. My friend Totgergeli, you're getting a warning, this was a replica, and secondly, I'm asking that by our last names, we're talking to the MPs because if we're going to tell them names, then it's going to be a little awkward. Let's move on, Comrade Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107488	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Grbin, I find your motion to disband the assembly above all an insult to common sense, and then I find it a reflection of your political inflation, infatuation, infatuation. Infantility And why, at a time when the parliament has a stable majority, when all the necessary laws, acts and decisions are made to a stable majority of never less than 76 hands, at a time when we are facing a global crisis... [[Step: Infantility, thank you]] a ratio, with a war in Ukraine that suggests new and yet undefined global geopolitical relations, at a time when more than ever we need stability, seriousness and security, security of this country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have a proposal for you, if you can't work, if you can't work, you guys can't work, you can relax, reset, you've already fallen apart on SDP1 and SDP2, you've split up anyway, you're asking for a disbandment and you're asking God not to come to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107489	Thank you very much, thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107490	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you for showing us the strategy that your club is going to today. Is France infantile, is the man in whom Plenkovic swears Macron infantile because he allowed France to go to elections a few weeks ago? At the time of the world crisis, during the war, France went to elections, mother and sky fell on their heads. So if you're sure you're going to win those elections then show a little bit of courage that you don't have and vote for this proposal, if you're so sure of yourself, go out in front of the citizens and let them decide. Disengage!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107491	Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107492	Thank you very much. I believe the injured article is a reflection of the 238th and evidence of infancy. In his presentation, the colleague himself stressed, quoting: “The chance that this proposal will pass is small. ” And that is proof that you seek the disbandment of the Parliament and ask God not to come to it. This is proof that you are lying to the Croatian people, lying to the hypocritical Croatian public. Continuing on Macron. Who won in France? Macron. Who will always win in Croatia? HDZ Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107493	Thank you very much. You get colleagues Bedeković you also get a warning. Let's move on now. colleague of the Dark Taritash, here you go. A fellow Whiteman, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Grbin: I think Beljak has been raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure for some time now.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107494	The Honorable President was injured by article 238, a colleague of mine, saying that the opposition was seeking the disbanding of the Parliament, asking God not to come to it. I think you HDZ are begging God not to. Not because you doubt victory or not, but because you suspect that any of you will be more on the lists than Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107495	Okay. Of course, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure either, it's a replica or some bad joke, so I'm warning my colleague, Beljak. ... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] What? Is that it again? We have a good injury to my colleague Bedekovic's Rules of Procedure now, but please let's do this now. We're heading towards using the Replicable Rules of Procedure's injuries. We're on our way. There's a lot of people interested in replicas, so I'm asking you to cut it down a little bit. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107496	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe Article 238. Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Beljak, falsely lies and hypocritically insults everything in order. He's the one who's afraid of disbanding the Parliament, because the Parliament will never see. It is he who destroyed and dismembered the strongest and oldest party in some historical times, which is the Croatian Peasant Party. You destroyed it, tore it apart and tore it apart. You're afraid of new choices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107497	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Comrade Bedekovic, you are getting a second warning because this was also a replica. Comrade Beljak, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107498	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter I don't know why my colleague's pointing at me with her finger. What would she fight for or I don't know why this aggression? If someone broke up, I'm glad she admitted that HSS is the historically largest Croatian party, not HDZ. Thank you very much, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107499	Okay, well, she said a colleague at some point. She said she was the biggest in some time. Yeah, she did, she said. She said. But, well, whatever your colleague, Whitey, you're getting a warning. You're calling from a colleague named Bedekovic? Now the third one will lose your right of speech if you get a warning now. You're giving up? Okay. Then let's move on. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107500	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll have a fellow coat of arms with one lighter subject than the one they used to be. So, I'm going back to France a little bit, but more in history. At least Antoinette stayed famous for telling people when they didn't have bread to eat cakes. Although some people now claim that it's not exactly like that, but we're history in Chihuahua that it is. With us, a high-ranking official said that when prices rise, let the citizens follow, so let them buy where it's cheaper. I think that as an opposition, we should go with one proposal, and this proposal could be accepted by the HDZ that there are lenses that all citizens would get, on which flights up there say HDZ offers from then on the cheapest products in that and that trade chain, so that then our fellow citizens and everyone together are having fun and running from the chain to the chain and watching where the products will be cheapest because prices go so alarmingly high that the question is where they can end But this government doesn't care. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107501	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107502	The sentences should be bought where the cheapest is in fact all the indicator of the economic policy of the Croatian Democratic Community. I know that you would like the opposition gone, I know that you would like to keep quiet about things that happen. But when someone says a sentence like so let them buy where it's cheaper and when it's the only cornerstone of Plenkovic's government's economic policy, then it's something we'll react to, then it's something we'll talk about, then it's certainly something that when the elections come to the citizens' minds and it'll be honored with a voice or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107503	Let's go back to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107504	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow coat of arms injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. My fellow coat of arms, we have nothing against this opposition, but stay with us like that and keep making ridiculous suggestions like this. We will if you stay like this for the next hundred years in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107505	Okay, that's an interesting thesis now, but it deserves a warning as well. Let's move on. Comrade Bosnjakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107506	Thank you very much. In one presentation, you said that an opposition should actually be submitted to the proposals, and that I fully agree with these questions that you are opening, which are actually questioning the policies that are on the scene, I think is good. Although I must confess to today's proposal, of course we won't agree, because in these conditions I don't think it's an expression of some wisdom. I'd like a lot more for us today to discuss some of the package of measures that you're proposing how to fight inflation, how to actually fight the collection of energy and stuff like that. That's what I'd like. But basically what I was about to say, I think we should respect the constitutional presummation of innocence. Corruption and you and I can agree that it's very important for the whole society to fight corruption, but to label people, to find them already guilty, I don't think it's right, and it's actually not from the point of view of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107507	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107508	Dear colleague Bošnjaković, first of all, thank you for speaking the replica, saying what you are behind, not what someone else has prepared for you, and then there is an instant view of the difference, because you can be talked to metrically. And I have to say, we're also going to talk about a number of concrete proposals in the days that the SDP has referred to. For example, the proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act which speaks of raising an untaxable basis that should ensure an increase in the salaries of citizens and citizens of this country. We will also discuss the draft law amending the Pension Insurance Act, which provides for raising or changing pension coordination in order to ensure that pensions do not lose value at the time of the crisis, inflation price growth. We will discuss all this, but today, we will discuss today why this government and this ruling government They don't work and they have to leave. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107509	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107510	Thank you, Mr. President. You said you wanted to use this debate to make SDP's views known. When journalists asked you about NATO enlargement, whether you were in favour or against the blockade of Sweden and Finland did not state the SDP's position, you could not give a clear answer whether you were in favour or against it. Your representative in the European Parliament, Tonino Picula, said he hoped that the SDP would not be for the blockade of Sweden and Finland, but later, counterpart Bauk said he thought the SDP club would still go towards the blockade of Sweden and Finland. This brings us back to the initial question, the Croatian public does not know whether the SDP has or has no attitude. When the press asked you, you couldn't give a clear answer. Can you give a clear answer today, is it for or against the blockade of Sweden and Finland, yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107511	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107512	Thank you, dear colleague, for not having to prepare another replica or question. The SDP is for the accession of Finland and the Swedish NATO alliance. At this point, however, this topic has not reached the Croatian Assembly. Why? Because the two countries have not yet submitted a proposal, have not yet received an invitation, the invitation has not been decided by the North Atlantic Council or the NATO summit, and the Memorandum Ratification Act with the North Atlantic Treaty is not before us. And when that comes, you'll know very well how to vote. However, don't get me wrong, we are absolutely in favour of joining these two NATO countries, but why not give space to President Republika Srpska's initiative as much as anyone has doubts about it to see it deliver. By 28th and 29th. 6th time to be held NATO summit has plenty of time to see if [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It gets results more [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin.]] It's your party's policy. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107513	Here's my colleague Stier, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107514	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured because the question was whether you were if you could now tell whether you were in favour or against the blockade. And in your answer again, there's no clear yes or no, so I don't need anyone writing questions that's true, but you should also be a clear answer whether yes, must be accurate and clear. [[Intruder: At least someone.]] Yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107515	Comrade Stier, of course, is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the speaker can respond as he wishes, but the answer points to a certain position. But you're getting a warning. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107516	... Croatian Parliament, Article 238 was injured, the Honorable representative of the coat of arms speaks as Demosten says everything and doesn't say anything correctly so that I feel very bad about having to listen to him. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107517	Well, what you're feeling bad is really not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you'll get, now you'll feel worse, you'll get a warning. Here we go, colleague Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107518	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of the coat of arms once asked you if you knew where you lived, you answered that question. I don't know where I live. I expected this initiative to be carried by someone who knew where he lived. And what happens in Croatia? Your colleague Maras was smaller in growth, but he was braver, at least he had some sort of list he was waving with and said I had 77 hands and remained an anthological statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, show me the number. You can't even show the number of MPs who signed this initiative of yours, and today they didn't show up here in the assembly. You entered the Croatian Parliament with 35 MPs, and now you remain at 17. This shows your senselessness and initiative that has absolutely nothing to do with it but entertain and try to get one or two political percentages that would little, at least raise your ratings a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107519	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107520	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic, thank you for reminding me of my life situation, reminding me where I live, making me think, but I don't give a shit that your colleague sitting behind you is so uncomfortable that I also care so much about your wrong numbers and numbers that I guess by trying not to read what you've been prepared you haven't been able to remember. A respected colleague once again, the opposition has the right to its own initiatives. These initiatives can be good or bad, it will be assessed by citizens, it will be assessed by citizens, just as it will assess the way you vote, the way you raise your hand for any proposals your government tells you where you don't dare say a And then when you know how harmful they are to [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] the state. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107521	Please, let's just stick to the time. We have a request again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107522	Article 238 was injured, but here I wanted to help a little though in this discrepancy of my colleague's coat of arms, I added one, two more MPs, I apologize for that, in the end you won't be left more than 10, you'll be satisfied with that number, and everything else is a matter of mathematics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107523	But then again, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning, colleague Ivanovic. Now, let's hear from colleague Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107524	Dear counterpart Grbin, Minister Banozic has proved to be a very successful high school student of science and mathematics in Vinkovci, a very successful doctorate at Osijek University with some very interesting thesis, geographical. Moreover, he proved to be a very successful student and allegedly is well-prepared and highly graded at paid PR training. However, they did not explain on the way that military planes and helicopters should not be used for panoramic tours, so bishop cruisers could still be listed there, as they did not explain that it may not be the most important first to resolve their housing issue in Zagreb. He also left sight of him, so he was the only one who saw the bomb in Zagreb on the rocket. Who and how can Minister Banozic remind that, as he has resolved his housing issue, he has to solve the Black Hawk helicopters and their garages, garages for Rafaele and how it is possible that such a beautiful minister flew over Under the radar of Andrej Plenkovic? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107525	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107526	Well, you gave the answer yourself, colleague Jaksic. He can remind him of that, Andrej Plenkovic. He can remind him, he can solve it, he can do anything, he can do what he wants. But it is evident that he will not, it is evident that he does not care, not only for the Black Hawks, Rafael, but here, we also found out yesterday about Croatian kunas because Banozic is unable to provide them with a home for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107527	... All right, Comrade Matula, here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107528	Dear fellow coat of arms. Citizens and citizens often talk and think about whether we have reached the bottom. Very often it is debated, and they are rightly concerned about the inflation that is coming, the war crisis of inconceivable proportions, the prices that leap and know that the social, economic bottom has not yet been reached. I am personally convinced that we have reached the political bottom and when we are at the political bottom, then it is no wonder that the majority party is talking exclusively about one parameter, stability, because at the bottom it is certainly stable. However, I am interested in how you interpret that their coalition partners, but none are here today at this debate. How could that be interpreted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107530	Dear fellow Matula, bottom politically, I hope we've reached our mark because if you get to the bottom, then you've got something to push yourself away from. However, when I listen to distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with the exception of these two sitting in the middle, it is clear that there is still plenty of room to get to the bottom. And you know what's most interesting to me? Yeah, it's been almost an hour since I've responded to the replicas, and from my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, there's not been a single sentence about what their government is doing well. Not a single sentence about what their government does well and why the government should remain except to guarantee them 100 years of power. And that's the taste of it, just 100 years of government interest, and we can tell them that, so you won't, and their coalition partners are not coming. Show me your attitude. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107531	Thank you very much. Here you are, colleague Totgergeli, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107532	Thank you, Your Honor. And a colleague of the coat of arms has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 38 because we're not discussing the government today. Today we are discussing the decision they have proposed to disband HS. And about what the government is doing or not doing, in case the Croatian Parliament disintegrated or the day the HS disbands and whether or not this government will stay, Croatian citizens will decide, as they did two years ago when we were in the elections and they confirmed this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107533	Comrade Totgergeli, you are being warned, this was a replica. Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107534	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I also risk a warning, and I agree exactly what my colleague said, that today is not debated about the government, but my colleague, Grbin, is very insulting to most of us MPs who can testify to everything that the government has said and what we have brought here in Parliament and voted on, which is that average monthly net wages have increased by 1824 kunas. e.g.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107535	You're getting a warning. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107536	I thank Mr. President, he's hurt. 238 Rules of Procedure of HS. My colleague Grbin, a few replicas of HDZ representatives who were sent to you did not go ad-hominem, you said at this time that the right side of this assembly was politically bottom. Are you aware and tell us whether the political bottom is to take from the state budget a fee that does not belong to you or is political? The bottom of the line then say in your defense that it's been paid in humanitarian services. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]] an organisation that is not anyone's [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]] You know? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107537	You're getting a warning. Comrade Bačić, you are being warned, please come in. [[Intruder: We were very correct in this debate, and you landed on the lowest possible branches.]] Let's move on. Now it's Comrade Shashin's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107538	Dear fellow coat of arms. The biggest tragedy of this fasso you're doing here today is that you don't really believe in what you're saying or want what you're supposed to stand for. In your opinion, the biggest problem is that a reconstruction, or replacement of a few ministers, is the Government, and that's a tragedy for you, that's the biggest problem. I don't know if you watched the other night Real, did you see how Ancelotti changed about 3, how many players at halftime and then scored 3 goals? Win. Now, Mr. Grbin, this is a team, this is a government that scores, this is a government that wins, this is a government that has results, and you and this club of yours with this 13-player team of yours, I think right now maybe in some country league we could play if you continue to train well in the meantime. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107539	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107540	Dear colleague, this is not football, this is the Croatian Parliament, this is the representative body chosen by the citizens of this country among other things to control the government. The government stems from the majority that exists in this House. And it is our obligation, not ours, but our obligation, that when that government and that majority do not do their job and do their job as well as we are talking about it now and you will not stop us. And that is whether you raise your hand to our proposal or not to go to your soul alone. And you're going to have to explain to people who are going to get paid and a pension worth less than at the beginning of the year why you let it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107541	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107542	Dear counterpart Grbin, Minister Vukkovic and another close friend of the black chronicler, Mrs. Rimac, is headed by the ministry that has now divided me into 33 billion kunas of agricultural incentives, and this agriculture is actually producing less and less from year to year. It's another economic miracle from Plenkovic's government. And since the ministry has actually correctly seen that there are insufficient numbers of farmers actively fostering even a wasteful and unprocessed country, for which OLAF and the Public Prosecutor's Office have shown particular interest. Now, the only sector that's unsustainable is the Agricultural Payment Agency. There aren't enough tables to fill up with new bureaucrats. But that's not enough either, so the ministry is contracting private companies so that these newly employed HDZ bureaucrats won't get too tired. Now, Europe and Minister Vuckovic are in no way understood and we will lose 30m euros to the incentives of the farmer. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107543	Here's your answer. Comrade Voter, thank you very much. [[/Intruder Voter: Do you think it makes sense to keep such an incompetent woman at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture?]] Here's an answer from a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107544	Of course not, of course not! But they will hold because obviously from keeping her in a position that she is not up to where her job does not work properly have a certain interest. Whether this interest is purely held in power or that interest is much deeper and will be financially determined by those who are currently at the Ministry of Agriculture that is OLAF, and we will not be silent about it and we will point to problems both in the ministry and in many others. The problems of corruption, crime which then leads to a job that should be in the interest of Croatian citizens simply not being done. Because when you're preparing your defense that you're going to take to the BUSKOK, OLAF or whoever it is that's really hard to concentrate on this kind of trickery as it is to make sure that the support comes to the farmers who really need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107545	Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107546	Comrade coat of arms, you said this government wasn't capable. I wouldn't agree with you. I think they're just capable of, or their ministers getting a mandate to do exactly what they've been doing. I would like to remind you that Minister Horvat when he sent his associate a text message and one of your choices and arranged a clienteletist allocation of 100 to 150, 200, 2500000 kunas to individual companies at the same time denied Uljanika similar funds that would allow the Uljanik to complete the famous yoke and continue production in Uljanik. What he got the mandate for was what he did. He has indeed been given a mandate to destroy the last levers of our economic development, and that can be said for other ministers in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107547	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107548	One for you, one for me. It is a policy of employment of the Croatian Democratic Community one to you, one to me. So if there's anyone else in the food chain, let's let him have one. The result is that one who has no relationship, who has no acquaintance, who has no blue envelope in this country will not come to work and must go outside. And then we come up with a brilliant programme of 200,000 kunas for a return nobody uses, no one. And that's the taste of it for you, one for me, one for you, one for me, one for me, and so on from Horvath and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107549	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107550	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grbin, in recent years we have witnessed how the highly positioned personnels of Andrej Plenkovic cannot quite explain their assets. To me, the most secure in that is somehow the Minister, the current Minister of Paladin. Anyone who claims on the career of such a systematic tax evasion would have to read it in detail, because it's some combination of insults to common sense and crime stories with superhic elements stealing from the poor and, for the sake of it, want to be a minister with good prospects. How many stories about the success of Minister Paladine's miracles also tell us the fact that even that forgotten Minister Maric, Goran Maric, in 2018, wanted to remove him by breaking the contract. However, Minister Paladin has remained below the radar of Andrej Plenkovic. I'm not surprised, because he's so quiet, he's pale. However, who else believes that the entire Coopers remain below the radar of Andrej Plenkovic Do you believe? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107551	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107552	No, I don't, I really don't. Because when you read everything that's happened and all the shops, all the steps that have been taken inside can't be by chance, it's too much. That one move is suspected, that two come on, for the average minister in this government nothing strange, but all that there is in Paladin is simply for Plenkovic's radar a little too much not to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107553	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107554	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Grbin, thank God the opposition has the right to initiative and I see you have been elected leader of that opposition to talk about crime. Since you've alienated what's not yours, if you've kept your mouth shut, since you've been taking a lot of it for a while, what would you have to do if you had a lot, would you sign up for yourself to the DORH?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107555	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107556	Dear colleague, if I have broken the law and if you know it is your duty to go to the police and the state's attorney's office and file a report. If you know I've broken the law and don't do it, do the crime of not reporting. If I broke the law go, report me, but then answer why yesterday when you had the opportunity to regulate the issue of compensation for a separate life you didn't want to do it and why you left it in such a way that I who willingly gave it up today could freely ask and you would have to approve me because according to how it was written I have the right to it. It's the worst of it all, the worst of it all. You had a chance to fix something, you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107557	Okay, we've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one's a colleague of Bedekovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107558	Thank you very much, I think the president has been injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, namely counterpart Peja Grbin, show hypocrisy and insults fellow MPs. We will remember that he gave up the fee for a separate life because if he hadn't done so, he couldn't have entered a city kindergarten costing seven hundred kunas but would have had to put him in a private place that cost about 3,000 kuna. So, mathematics, he gave up 1,000 kuna to finally earn 2,000 kuna. It's pure mathematics. and pure hypocrisy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107559	My colleague Bedekovic, this was a replica, so I'm going to give you a third warning and you're losing your right to speak. A colleague, Deur, and a colleague of the coat of arms, he answered the same thing. ... I know, but first it's Deur, and then it's you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107560	Thank you, Your Honor. Infringement of Article 238. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107561	Wait a minute, just a little buddy, back to square one. So, first, my colleague Deur, and then after that, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107562	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague, Article 238, did not answer whether, to ask whether he would apply himself to the DORH, and the reason is that, what you did, kidnapped, alienated from yours, lied, in the assembly, you were false, as president of the opposition, you are returning to your old habits of the old SDP and your government where you left the mess, all devastated, quarrels, conflicts, today you support The same way that initiative comes from Pantovich. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107563	You get a colleague Deur and you get a warning, this was also a replica. Now with a call from a colleague of the coat of arms if I've figured it twice No, he's retired. [[I'm out.]] Okay, well, then nothing, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure by fellow coat of arms, so let's move on. [[No, I pulled.]] Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107564	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. coat of arms, I'm watching you wipe the constant sweat off your forehead, and you seem very uncomfortable because you know that your proposal is not even on the verge of your mind, but beyond any thought. What I must say is that in times of never more difficult since World War II, not only for Croatia, but for all of Europe and for the world, you are calling for destabilisation, you are calling for destruction just because you are yourself. You are destructive, unstable, ignorant and not in your best interest of a better standard of Croatian citizens, not in your interest the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world but in your best interests is destruction and destruction. So since you have brought the largest Croatian opposition party into a state of decomposition, here's my proposal for you to fall apart really to the end [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and resign when you want it so badly. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107565	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. Time's up. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107566	My colleague Buric injured Article 238, paragraph 5, because by her conduct, she had deviated from the usual behaviour of HDZ MPs, to whom she preceded and did not begin her speech with these thanks to the great leader and to the achievements of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. There, that's the injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107567	Comrade Voter, of course this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was some form of replica, but I'm just gonna have to say it a little bit, I have to say it a little bit. So if you were listening to your questions now to your president then you would see that they are very similar to those whose HDZ representatives are asking their president, but all of this is, you learn from the best, that's right, yes, but you're doing badly. Yeah, yeah, fellow Voter, of course you got a warning. Let's move on, and let's hear from my colleague Buric about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then after that, you'll get hurt. [[And I'm allowed to, no, I'm not allowed yet, thank you.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: After that, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107568	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer to Article 238, when we talk about the achievements of this government, then we know very well that we never have a larger number of employees, and we also have a number of unemployed who are below 120,000 in this very challenging time. Also, colleagues of the Voice at your time while you were acting as a government, you left nearly 400,000 unemployed on the market. And that's your result and proof. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Your abilities. [[Intruder: Fellow Buric.]] Besides, You broke out 4 [[Intruder: Comrade Buric please!]] billions of kunas to the citizens. [[Please, it's been a long time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107569	My colleague Burić, please receive a warning and please ask everyone to stop with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure for losing the meaning of the debate then and we are completely leaving in the wrong direction. Here's an answer to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107570	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Buric, I am not sweating because I am uncomfortable, but because I am warm, and especially around my heart, when I listen to you speak and read your replica, read your replica, make one big mistake. So with all due respect, this is not the biggest crisis Croatia has been facing since World War II, but this is the biggest crisis Croatia has faced since the Homeland War, so I ask you to learn the difference between these two wars or at least read more carefully what they have prepared for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107571	All right, let's move on. Comrade Mazhar, here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107572	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Grbin, here I will try to please you so that it will not be a complete debacle and I will tell you that since the start of this government's mandate in the Republic of Croatia, the salaries have increased, increased employment, increased pensions, increased social benefits, increased GDP, increased amount, increased investment, increased credit rating, revenues from tourism. Taxes have been cut by nine billion kuna, unemployment has been reduced, public debt and deficits have been reduced, and the SDP has been halved, and therefore the Croatian citizens understand your anger and your anxiety.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107573	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107574	Thank you, buddy. There is no anger, there is no anxiety, there is only regret for everything you do, but there is even more regret for the missed opportunities that Croatia had in these 2 and 6 Plenkovic years, and it did not take advantage of them. And yes, you'll be right when you say, for example, that the average salary in Croatia in February 2022 was 400 kuna higher than in 2021 and you'll be absolutely right when you say it. 400 kuna on paper more. But what you're not going to say is, what you're going to keep quiet is that for that inflation pay, you can buy less than a year ago for the one that was on paper alone was lower. What about retirement? What about the pension that's going to be even smaller by the end of the year? You don't answer that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107575	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107576	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, so here I am, the esteemed President, the esteemed representative of Grbin, and I wanted to go in that direction that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic did in the past and this conference for the benefit of the citizens and gave answers to numerous crises and threats, and now we are indeed in one even bigger and indeed, because of these results that he has so far, by the number of fellow Members of Mažar and part of fellow citizens, Buric, we can certainly promise that he will give the right answers to this demanding situation. Of course, in the mandate, everything was growing, and clearly, unemployment was dropping, the number was falling, and it was already said. My question, how do you think we lifted the fee yesterday? A separate life would save [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You who wrongly and unlawfully used it? [[Intruder: Comrade Murganić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107577	Comrade Murganic, please, not just you, but others. Conceal the question to stop in one minute. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107578	Dear fellow Members, you are at the helm of the Committee who decides on the administrative procedure, open the ZUP and if I have broken the law use the rights that this Law makes available to you. Short and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107579	Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107580	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Grbin, here I am, a representative at HS relatively short, for a little over a year, and I've already had a chance to see more failed attempts at impeachment than any proposals that would make our citizens' living standards better. As a young representative, I am extremely disappointed that good authority, the good government of the Republic of Croatia does not have a good counterpart on the other hand, and it would be very good if the opposition made an effort to contribute to the growth of living standards with its ideas and suggestions, not to engage in attempts of impeachment that it knows in advance that it will not pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107581	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107582	Dear colleague, you said yourself, you've been here for a year, you've been studying, you've shown your will to do so, and I'm glad you'll learn in time that we won't do what you ask of us and how it suits you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107583	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107584	Thank you. Dear Grbin, remember the replica of HDZ representatives Totgergelija and Bedekovic. In fact, the question has been raised why we deceive the public that we want early elections. Let's get some things straight right now. Yes, there are opposition MPs who do not vote for opposition initiatives, so I call on citizens to follow the traffic light a little bit better where it is. There are also opposition deputies who don't even show up on the day of the vote, hiding like a snake's foot. However, this does not mean that the opposition is weak. No, there is not, in fact, every opposition representative, and not out of the ranks of the ruling, his own cheek. I don't mean you who are obedient, who are cowards. I mean those opposition MPs who are willing to be chippers, but citizens should take that as a threat, as a threat coming from the HDZ that is capable of buying more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107585	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107586	Thank you, colleagues, and as before you, colleague Matula, and you have shown one situation that those who should be here with HDZ are gone. They're not there to support them. They'll come to the vote, there's no dispute about it at all, but I guess they can't swallow anything they need to be here today and defend this story. It's not working. That would be a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107587	Let's move on. Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107588	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, it's funny to listen to you call the election today. You who are at the head of the SDP party that has almost half as much rating as HDZ's strongest party. You who our citizens think are 51% negative. You who are at the head of a party that received 222,000 votes in 2020 less than in 2016, and after that you succeeded 18 of your colleagues with whom you were on the same election list...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107589	Please, just, just a little colleague. Comrade Rasudiæ, colleague Deur, I ask you to allow your colleague to speak, we have an atmosphere that is really okay for now, the topic is exciting for everyone, but let us speak this and to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107590	...you who have since 2020 managed to get 18 of your colleagues with whom you have been on the same election lists to escape from you and your club, and have been in the party for over 20 years. You've managed to get that you don't have a single replica of support today. And you think that you would achieve some better result and you could assume the duty of leading this country. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107591	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107592	Then what's the problem? Let's go to the election. If everything is ideal, if the polls you are calling on show that 3/4 citizens think Croatia is going in the right direction, not sorry, 3/4 citizens think Croatia is not going in the right direction, then we are going to the elections. Then what's the problem? There's no problem. There's no problem. Let us go before the citizens, give them a mandate to decide on the direction and who will manage Croatia in the period ahead of us. Yes, I'll agree the period is challenging, the period is difficult and precisely because it's challenging and difficult at the head of the state needs someone who's capable, not someone who every day lists a black chronicle to be found in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107593	Comrade Jelkovac, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107594	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My fellow coat of arms, I would expect you as the leader of the opposition to be serious. You've hurt Article 238, because you're not only insulting us as agents, you're insulting citizens, you know, and you know what the cost of the election is. We had regular elections, citizens showed their will. The government is stable, and you here have pointless suggestions. I suggest you start getting ready for the next one. for the next regular elections. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107595	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning from a colleague named Jelkovac. Let's move on, Comrade Whitey, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107596	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Grbin, I must correct your speeches all the time about the incompetence of HDZ parliamentary representatives. I wouldn't agree if they were incompetent. Well, look at them, I mean, they're capable people who make anything out of themselves, of course. For example, Mrs. Bedekovic, who called me because of some dissociation, I don't know what she said, and here she is, and I'm going to Google her a little bit, because I've never heard of her before, even though she was a class teacher for 16 years, and she joined the HDZ, so she became the headmaster of the county, then the master's degree, then the doctorate, then the dean, and the councilwoman in the county, and the representative in the assembly, even though she got only 507 votes, then the minister, and again the parliamentary representative, and it was very loud. And now you tell me that she's incompetent, so that she's capable, she's as capable as all HDZ's make out of nothing to express herself harshly. It's just that they do it for themselves, not for Croatia What we should be working for. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107597	Wait a minute. My colleague, my colleague Bedekovic, please calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, don't [[I'll do it now, I'll do it like this.]] Don't be, don't go to personal level, but stop. [[No, this is a felony.]] A colleague of Beljak you yourself went personally to work on a colleague of Bedeković I let you go, you had a replica, now wait for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, before you were colleagues Mažar and fellow Shimičević. [[I'm not on my way.]] Here you go, Comrade Mazhar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107598	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, if anything is done or if it is done every day for the Republic of Croatia, then I think we should be proud of it. And I'm also glad that we're diametrically opposite because you've created nothing out of something specific from the HSS, you've become the undertaker of a historic party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107599	You get a warning from a fellow Mazhar, this was a replica. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107600	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague has injured Article 238 because he insults and disrespects his colleague. What's good about this story is that we're more capable because we're in power, if it's correct, then they'll admit it and say that we're more successful and better than he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107601	Your colleague Simičević gets a warning number two. Now, a colleague of Beljak, a colleague of Beljak, has already received two warnings, you will lose your right to speak if there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107602	That's why I'm asking you not to give me a warning, but seriously, right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107603	I'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107604	So, this is not a replica, this is therefore a criminal offence committed by Mrs Bedekovic, Article 238, whatever article, it is a criminal act of predication and disgrace. I'm thinking about suing her in court. It's an insult. So you can read me, read the Penal Code, and you'll see that you've committed a crime. I beg you, Mr. President, don't give me a warning about this. Because I warned you it was a felony. [[Employer: A colleague of Beljak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107605	Comrade Beljak, you will be warned because this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure Just please don't fight. [[Intruder: How is it not, and what?]] So, I'll explain it very easily. Continuingly, both part of the ministers and part of fellow MPs are accused of being corrupt, of committing crimes, I do not make warnings, so I do not make warnings. Now it's the same in an unacceptable way for me, but that's how it's done for you. So, you can seek your justice, just a little bit, in court if you consider yourself defamed, but you will get a warning and lose your right to speak. Please sit down. We have a further violation of the Rules of Procedures of counterpart Habian and colleague Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107606	I thank the esteemed president of this, in principle you said what I wanted to say. So, Article 238 was injured by the deviation from the usual behaviour in HS, so while the left side all the time, not only to the ministers, but to all of us here he calls criminals, thieves, your mentor says we're a gang then that's okay, then there's no presummation of innocence, and while colleague Bedekovic says something that's a notorous fact that's a criminal offense. So don't have double standards, don't have double criteria it's hard to listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107607	You started out well, but then you ended up with a replica, so I'll give you the same warning. And my colleague, Peovic, called in for a breach of the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107608	I'm calling in an article. The 238th demeaning of MPs and MPs was indeed injured here in this article. I am not in favour of personal and personal mud-popping, but really, my colleague Beljak listed only the biographical data of my colleague Bedekovic. It was not defilement or disgrace, and what she answered to him was indeed a disgrace. Let's warn and remind that HDZ is powerful Convicted party. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107609	I often warn you of double criteria, listen to my colleagues and colleagues in the opposition as they speak to the ruling and if you are going to condemn this way of speech then I would give you the right to rebel against what your HDZ colleagues say. But I'm trying to be objective and correct, so I'm not giving you any notices about the very serious insults that come to the expense of some HDZ colleagues, so don't expect me to do the opposite now when they're at stake. So you get a warning, too. Let's move on, Comrade Brcic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107610	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow coat of arms. Here I closely followed your presentation in a special way in the introduction, so here I kind of underlined to myself the two essential words that you later dismembered, and that's an argument of interest. Of course, this argument is indeed in one exceptional moment, times are working and that certainly the interest is not particular but one general common good specifically directed towards the most vulnerable social groups. I'm not just saying this in that Dalmatian that you're buying, I'm trying really to be exact, and the contribution is one of my questions to you. Here we recently had a theme about investing in preschool institutions where a billion and 600 million investments were mentioned, is that, in your opinion, the largest total amount of investment in kindergarten infrastructure and preschool education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107611	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107612	Dear colleague. Would it be acceptable for the government to do absolutely nothing? In some segments, it might be better if the government didn't do anything at all, but the government should do something from time to time. And when we talk about the interest of public and particular interest, I ask you what kind of interest is there, for example, in the software case, what's the interest in the flower business? Your Honor, Mr. President and Honorable colleague, Beljak, you may...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107613	Yes, fellow Beljak you deserve it I have done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if you think I have mistaken you have a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system today by this point of the agenda you cannot say that. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107614	Thank you, Mr. President. And Branko's up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107615	Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107616	Thank you, Mr. President. I first said that the proposal and the explanation was pointless, and now I'm going to tell you another attribute for this article. It is also very important in the opposition to show credibility in order to be able to take over and gain citizens' trust, and in this respect he would comment on you in the following way. You are asking to disband the council at the fact that the ruling majority is stable, it is interesting that as SDP president the moment your club fell apart, when 60% of your club members left you did not ask for elections on your own page. Do you think it's a credible approach to defend this decision here today about disbanding the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107617	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107618	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. If we were talking about the intrinsic elections in the assembly, then I'd tell you that your internal election process started two years ago and it's not over yet. Under your statutes, a new party leadership was to be chosen two years ago, you didn't finish it. But it's not an issue of HS work, not an SDP election or a HDZ assembly, it's a matter of your political options and our political options. But here at HS, we are discussing whether the government stems from the parliamentary majority because this is parliamentary democracy, whether it is good or not. We think it's not working. And at that moment, it is absolutely legitimate to say that this government is incorrigible and that only the elections can be fixed. You'll vote on it. The way you want it, I can't influence it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107619	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Now you will be replicated by your colleague Bauk. [[Smackback: But I can point to reasons.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107620	In recent days, one topic has reminded us among other things why this government should leave. Because this government does not implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Law on Abdition and the Rules of Procedure of the HS, because it has not passed a new law, because, after the Constitutional Court's decision, it has not given its opinion on our law and because women who wish to commit a legal abortion are humiliated in Croatian hospitals. And this helps the cowardly silence of a government supported by two parties who, in their name, have the word liberally. So when HDZ 1 and HDZ 2 agree as they had to negotiate about Istanbul, to pass this Law, then you can talk about 1 and 2, but to comfort you We're just one and the best. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107621	Comrade Bačić, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107622	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. ... Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Bauk, in Croatia, there is a law that allows for the termination of pregnancy. If you had the intention, the political will and the world-wide approach to amending that law, who has defended you for eight years? Why did you keep your mouth shut for eight years when you were in power? But now you're very loud when you're in opposition. [[Intruder: Thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107623	Very good replica, but you get a warning because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure What, what? [[- What's his problem?]] Second. Buddy Bačić, other No, I'm warning you, from now on, I'm warning everyone when they have two. [[Just so he knows it doesn't happen to him as well as Kreshi.]] Now, you answer to the replica of my colleague Bauku, yes. [[- I'm allowed?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107624	Dear colleague Bauk, but also dear colleague Bacic, because I cannot answer my colleagues to Bauku without answering your questions. The Constitutional Court's decision concerning the law on abortion was adopted in 2017.The Constitutional Court adopted the view that what is necessary in the 70s law is a change and has given a deadline for this, from, if I am not mistaken, 2 years. The ruling majority was then as similar as today, and it did not want to do so, however, is not only a problem in the law. The problem is that some doctors allow this law to be interpreted absolutely beyond what is being approached and beyond what is written in it and therefore we have cases such as those to which the Croatian public has witnessed in the last few days. But, dear colleague Bačić, we will respond and so today we will hand over 30 signatures necessary to open a debate in HS next week on an abortion law that the government has passed three years ago after the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107625	Thank you very much. Let's go to the last line, colleague Dreven Buddinski, please. [[Intruder: Suggest 3 years ago.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107626	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear colleague of the coat of honor. All the things you've been doing in your opening statement we listen to almost every day, but running the government, the Parliament, it's not a small thing, it's a big responsibility. And you're already, I can tell you, in the first tide of your party staffing. So I have a question for you, how would you maintain the ruling majority when you couldn't even hold your own party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107627	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107628	Thank you, dear colleague Dreven Buddinski. Don't worry about the SDP, the SDP is here, the SDP is strong and will be even stronger. Don't worry about the SDP, it's not your concern, your concern is your party. Your concerns are citizens who gave you the trust to do something about it two years ago. Your concern at this point, and you're right, leading the state is a great responsibility. Your concern is that by acting through the club of attorneys of the majority, you make sure that the decisions made in HS are in favour of everyone in this society, not just some, and I leave you to wonder whether at this time you and your colleagues have acted and worked in such a way. Your decision, your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107629	Thank you, colleagues. We've come to an end with replicas. We will now take a break, though, given that we have been almost 2 hours and will then speak on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives Mosta co-worker Selak Rasdic and colleagues Rasdic. We'll continue, I'm looking for a break for myself for 10 minutes, so we'll continue at 11:30. It's 11:00. 20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Now, on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to representative Selak Rasdić and representative Rasdic, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107631	To begin with, I think this House should be disbanded because it has obviously already disbanded itself, and with the proposal attached, I see, agreeing, and the ruling majority is already acting as if this House should not currently perform its function. So, I'm glad you respected the opposition's motion to disband the Parliament and that according to what you've just shown us, with these empty benches, we're obviously going to early elections. Now I'm going to briefly look back at why they're necessary, although I can see it didn't take you too long to understand the lesson yourself. The Parliament, as such in this formation, no longer corresponds to the function of the highest representative body in the country. It is doubtful who else is represented in the first place, whether it corresponds to the political will of the majority and whether, given how and in what terms the ruling majority is elected and how the ruling majority has been drawn up and what it has become responsible for in the meantime, whether there is therefore such a composition of the Parliament still makes sense, or whether it is time for the mandate to return to the hands of the citizens and to give them a new assembly of parliament. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, for giving a confirmed answer to this question. We can guess which of us present advocates in the new assembly will be and what ratios there will be in it. This, of course, remains in the sphere of speculation, but what is certain is that unlike the present, he will have full and fresh legitimacy, so what citizens choose will be so. Indeed, after all these praises which we have witnessed in the past, what are you afraid of? This isn't leading to anything right now. First, it is questionable how much this assembly of Parliament is in accordance with the Constitution at all. A long time ago, the Constitutional Court ordered election units to be modified, and the recent census further confirmed that the difference in the number of voters in individual constituencies was already so high that heavy discrimination was taking place in the elections because the vote of citizens in some election units was worth much more than in some others. And it has to be fixed. And why hasn't it straightened up so far? Well, that's because HDZ's in favor. Furthermore, as we have recently pointed out, it is doubtful whether three Serbian minority representatives were elected against the Constitution or whether, with 2 from the SDSS in this session, a member of the other Serbian party was to sit under the law. The Constitutional Court will soon have to be manifested. By volunteering the timing and atmosphere of the elections that produced this assembly, they managed first to shoot down the turnout at only 46.9% using panic, lockdown and to God's rescue role of headquarters at the beginning of the pandemic in order to use the members of the same headquarters as constituencies and campaigns under the slogan Safe Croatia. Here, I'm glad my colleague, Habib, has changed his mind about disbanding the council, so he came here to defend the current assembly. It's not like you're afraid of being re-elected. Today, 2 years later, they hide it in public, and they hide their headquarters’s feathers in public as a snake’s feet, and the facts about the vast purchase of Covid equipment outside the Public Procurement Act and under the label that is still not removed, are completely unreasonable amounts of vaccines obtained that we now or donate or destroy despite the invisible economic situation in which our citizens are present and for which no one is responsible. And that we didn't even try to fight to have any free hands to decide whether we needed that amount of 80, 18 million vaccines and what we're going to do... Whether we will continue to throw and donate vaccines to obtain new amounts regardless of the needs and will of our citizens to use them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not a question of ideology. This is a matter of material survival and economics. What we invest on and on what we're from and what we're from. Not to mention the flower shops that received input information jobs overnight, all these facts will yet be established and will be held accountable for justice. How many more reconstructions or government refreshments can we expect? Instead of encouraging citizens to greater democratic participation and trying to increase the turnout of a people who respect and respect you so much for your interpretation and love and respect all your successes, by perfiding the introduction of an e-voting and also by a lettering vote which has long been practiced by countries like Italy and BiH that we know are far more dysfunctional than Croatia, you are doing everything to ensure that fewer Croatian citizens go to the polls because we know that your clientele is coming out, so with a minor response from other citizens who do not feed and dress HDZ increases the relative share of their vasals in the election result. And after all of this, therefore unconstitutional election units, the use of the pandemic to manipulate the timing of the elections, exploiting the headquarters for the political campaign, disabling the correspondence and e-voting to reduce the turnout, disabling and sabotaging of the potential referendum in order not to hear the citizens' will to manage the same pandemic, so far there has been an unprecedented trade with minority representatives who are elected on special lists. Exploitation of one right and privileges and democratic fluids that we have about the election of minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and they are elected in line with a drastically smaller number of citizens' votes in order to recapture the ruling majority, so you used it. Which, imagine miracles, when you wonder who is represented by whom, most who are de facto minority by the number of votes because the representatives of the ruling majority, so when we add these 76 or 77 hands to what they really have legitimacy, given the significantly smaller number of votes elected by minority representatives, have received fewer votes than the opposition you think you have the right to manage and which you are disabling from its right to hear the argument that you are here who have been trusted by the citizens. Has the majority of citizens really given you confidence? Until this meeting, there was a good democratic custom for minority representatives to wait for the majority to form and then agree with it so that they could articulate and realise the special interests of the communities they represent. But now minority representatives have been elected on special lists, some with a handful of votes and they have determined who the majority will be even though they do not have things legitimacy do so. That is how we came to a state where the ruling majority is formed from an electoral minority with the help of minority representatives. Then, in a further congregation, what has unfortunately been seen in the past is happening. What distanced our citizens from politics and caused them to lose any faith in the system of voting in general and that their voice could make a difference. I'm talking about harvesting. The voter fraud in terms of voting for one option, and then some of its stickers run across the ruling majority organised by the electoral minority and minority representatives. Indeed, the fundamental question is, who here represents most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Release the ideology, release your own attitudes, let's just look at the mere numbers. The people say, "What a coat of arms does not correct time," I add, which can only be congenital, anti-constitutional, illegal, commercial, harvested by bad and criminal fruits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107632	He will now continue his colleague Raspadic. Here you go. Here, please spare your fellow Dedication of witty throws, be insolent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107633	You'll have a chance later for the replica and for the answer, so refrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107634	My colleague Rudic, what he did to my colleague Deur happens all the time, nothing was scary, you have 9 minutes and 57 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Updating on this people's saying, "What a coat of arms doesn't make right", I will now move on to the fruits of the government that was formed after the elections that were held in the way we heard and most of the people who were marred by the minority plus the representatives of minorities also heard how. What are the fruits, and what are the fruits? After more than two years of earthquakes in Zagreb and a year and a half since the Banovina earthquake, nothing has been restored. It worked faster and better during August Shenoa after that earthquake in the 19th century. It's like an orchestra that's constantly being tuned, and it can't get through, and after one conductor ended up in prison, we've got a new young Shostakovich, I've been calling him out of a mile. Nothing has been restored, only the government has been restored, so instead of the Minister of Construction Horvat who ended up in Remetinco in prison in front of whom I propheticly invited Plenkovic to the meeting because there the HDZs will feel at home, as if at home, and a lot of the teams are already there, today I see that the comb and the Ministry of Health that Willi Beros is very airy, instead of the fall of the government and the new elections after Horvat's fall we got Minister Paladin. A man who is in an unsettled conflict of interest because he and the minister of state property, who owns 10% of the project in the Kukarim, and his ministry will decide on a concession that has been doing nothing for seven years in an attractive location, so he also decides on his ownership. What's he doing? Go to the bathroom while he decides, exclude or sell his share, so of course he can get a higher price because he will decide what will happen to that concession. So, you chose a man in an indecisive conflict of interest and you chose a securely unverified long-term partner of unclear Russian capital. And what may be the worst and what we've seen this week is definitely the man who still doesn't have a plan to speed up the reconstruction that supposedly led him to it, not Stephen Curaj or some other who refused the offer. But that's not the end, after the investigation of Minister Aladrovic was launched, he left. I watched them here, and I tried to express their melancholy with the lyrics "We are like autumn on the trees of the list", the three leaves that were sitting there flew away, today this is how Minister Beroš shakes, and some more will see what happens. Ode Aladrovic, but your partner Radimir Cacic did not come out of the ruling coalition as he publicly promised 22. He said if another investigation was launched that he could no longer support the ruling majority, but there he remains constant towards but the ravine of what an old song would say. Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic, who, despite his presummation of innocence, also went on to become too heavy a burden for the government. Why didn't the government respect the presummation of innocence? The man's only been charged. There's been an investigation. Maybe he's not guilty. But look wonders are a burden for the government, but it's not bad for the council, so you brought it back to our assembly because the face of HS is more thick and the stomach is more resistant than the government's. The same goes for former Minister Coric, who got tired of being tired of Jasmina Stavros and Voika V in the same-named songs "Tired", and sent him to rest in the CNB. The burdens directly and waved his emails at the first co-worker arrested in the Krš-Padjene affair, so as Milosevic became unworthy of the government, a moral burden, but I guess given the CNB's reputation, he is quite similar to that institution. About the arrest of Plenkovic's close associate, Gabriela Žalac and Mr. Petrica, that we do not even talk about it because the arrogance has become so much that it pulls out of the eu funds even though it is known that there is strong control, so we can only expect what was done in the purchase of covid equipment that you have placed under the label secretly and past the Public Procurement Act. He'll get it on the wallpaper, too. Maybe Mr. Berosh knows something today. The day before yesterday, a complete debacle of Croatian foreign policy took place, the Croatian government did not act as a sovereign state, a full member of the EU and NATO pact, and did not use any mechanism to intercede with our allies in order to address the problem of Croatians' inequality in BiH, which was imposed by changes to the electoral law two decades ago by the same allies. It is regrettable that after a year of dragging the Croats into the nose-finding negotiations, nothing has been achieved that Wednesday's elections were called yesterday under the old anti-constitutional law, and that Andrej Plenkovic, as a great success, points out that he put a sentence into the EU strategic compass on the constituent nations standing in Annex 4 in the BiH Constitution. You're not gonna make it. Well, in October, when the heads of Croats are politically decapitated in BiH are caught by a strategic compass. The decision of Oreskovic's government is still not being implemented and has not been met once, and has had to be met four times a year, so a 24-fold meeting with a body to monitor Serbia's progress in negotiations with the EU. Not even the Vukovar hospital records were returned, let alone anything else. But that's why the government unspeakably attaches Serbia's Vučićeva to the EU, while Croatian Ambassador to Belgrade Hidajet Bištevic publicly clashed with Croatian community leader Tomislav Žigmanov, who in recent elections managed to enter Serbia's parliament, not thanks to the assistance of the Croatian government but despite Hidajet Bištovic and his obstructions, he spoke publicly. In short, crime, nepotism, incompetence, unhappiness, not renewal within the country, but cowardice, serviality, treason in foreign policy. So I repeat, that the coat of arms is born time does not correct. This majority has never represented most voters, even in such a coronal election with a headquarters that was attached to the campaign by Willie Beros, and even less, it represents today after all they have afforded Croatian citizens over the last two years. You like to call on your electoral legitimacy and your polls, you're strong, you break down in polls, great. Let's disband the council, call the election, and let's see this great love and trust of the citizens to you. I hope the Croats are not so ungrateful as not to see what the government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic has done for them all these years and that they will not be granted you even more trust, and we will look only at the TV after the election. So make it easy for us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107636	Thank you, too. I will now invite my colleague Selak Rasdic to respond to the replicas, there are 8 for my colleague and 2, 4, 7 for my colleague Rasdic. So, let's take the turn of the first order of fellow Milanovic litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107637	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I'd just like to look back before here may be the topic for the debate at Parliament's presidency I wanted to and colleagues I'm going to break up this line, but here I'm not able to at this point, so maybe you should consider doing this by some option to make it when the time is divided that both of these replicas can be raised. I was actually going to ask you about direct democracy. This is something that the whole world tends to do only in Croatia big parties of this color and referendums have always been a thorn in the eye of both this government and the previous HDZ governments, so I am interested in your opinion on the level of democracy in Croatia and the level and direct democracy you have just discussed, especially around national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107638	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107639	The democratic system does not mean ideal editing, but it is certainly the least evil in selecting existing systems and therefore we have chosen for democracy. What is particularly interesting is the debate on democracy that we have when we are talking about the way we are going to decide on referendums in the future. So the left, which declares itself precisely for direct democracy and promotes as one that is closer to the people and wants a greater participation of citizens, is suddenly the most concerned about how to limit access to referendums by these same citizens, which is the largest form of the greatest democracy. And here we see a certain hypocrisy. We see that you seem to be making referendums as a direct democratic tool in Croatia impossible, and we at the Most stand for the exact opposite. To reduce the number of signatures required for writing which is necessary for a referendum to be called in order to go in line with democratic European fluids. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107640	Thank you very much. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107641	Thank you. Dear fellow Minister Rasudiæ I am here yesterday, and I will be referring to my colleague, so on the referendum statement of the citizens, I asked the Vice-President of the Assembly what was sent to the Constitutional Court by the Croatian Assembly, as Mr Šeparović said I could not make a decision within the legal deadline, and this should be by tomorrow, the day after the month because he sent them something later. What does the President of the Croatian Parliament do, past the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament and why is he assisting in suffocating citizens' referendum initiatives? And that is the reason for the disbandment of the assembly to move Gordan Jandrokovic from this position and for the new elections, not only this crime we could hear a lot about from your speeches, from the speech of colleagues who had previously spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107642	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107643	The first thing I want to point out is that as soon as they can't make the decision, they know what decision they should rightly make, which is that the referendum must be called, but also politically, because of the various pressures that come from the ruling majority's ranks, they must avoid. So that's an unequivocal conclusion after this delay. Secondly, of course we have the right to know what is secretly coming from the Croatian Parliament whose component we are to the Constitutional Court in order to disable this same referendum, and really isn't it enough for us to have the highest threshold in Europe of 10% in order for the referendum to be called into the procedure at all at all, but when it is by some miracle that you must continue to work on sabotaging this same referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107644	Let me just say to appease my colleague Grumo, so nothing secret has been sent, all the records from the Committee's session, your letters, everything related to your request for a referendum have been sent to the Constitutional Court. So in the first phase we delivered a number of documents, they asked for everything else and a few days after that first package of documents we sent others. So there's nothing secret, everything is verifiable, you can see on the record that went to the Constitutional Court. But you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107645	Yes, Article 238 was injured, so I don't know how discussions with the board affect the Constitutional Court's decision. Is it possible Miroslav Šeparovic wants to hear what Branko Bacic said, perhaps they haven't seen each other long ago to see what Branko Bacic was saying on the boards so they can make a decision. So this just shows how far the Constitutional Court is on the remote control and how their decisions have nothing to do with the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107646	I don't know why my colleague, or the President of the Constitutional Court, asked for those minutes. He may have been interested in what you were saying, and maybe being a colleague of Bacic, I don't really know, but the Constitutional Court asked and we delivered it to him, so it's nothing controversial. But I have to give you a warning, unfortunately, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Troscott, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107647	Dear colleagues, Selak Raspadic. Here are the last days I see that the external media are also transferring the European Parliament's 2016 research. And that conservative figure that unfortunately the monetary value of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is 60 billion kuna a year, it's some maybe 15 Peljeka bridges going to corruption. So here's what you're thinking, yes, and here's what's finally a conservative method. That's $10 billion, maybe even more in today's course, maybe even 70 billion, that's one third of Croatia's budget. So imagine what our health system would be like if that money were gone, how many planes we might have to defend our skies and how we might have a better education system that money per independent European Parliament body does not amount to $10 billion, respectively. 60 billion kuna. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107649	Given this fact, given that the government's reconstruction took place on our initiative precisely because of the various USKOK investigations, it is indeed cynical to listen to HDZ colleagues who are standing up here talking about how the elections could cost us dearly, that they are a huge financial cost to this country. They may be the cost of this power because they would otherwise share the money among themselves, but the biggest cost for Croatian buildings is precisely the same corruption that brings millions to them at the annual level. So it doesn't cost us the election, it costs us the maintenance of the corrupt government. And if we are talking about conservative assessments, we should bear in mind that in Croatia, since all medical supplies are the most money that has ever been spent past public procurement and under the authority that this corruption is yet to surface.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107650	Thank you. Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107651	Thank you. Dear MPs, Selak Raspadic. I've been listening very carefully to your speech, and here's only a short time to narrow it down. For the first three minutes and 43 seconds, you were in the spirit of today's motion to disband HS, so you questioned the assembly's composition whether it was in accordance with the constitution or not, whether the electoral law is in accordance with the constitution, to which it is in favour, whether minority quotas are also in line with the constitution and who need them. And then after three minutes and 43 seconds, you turned to the classic bridge turning chicken upside down, demeaning the government's work, and even you even set math laws as questionable because by you, the minority is bigger than most, and then at 10.00 you handed the word to your husband to Mr. Rasputic. What I was about to say, how dramatic you are You will be in opposition for two more years. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107652	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107653	It is nice that counterpart Brkan knows that we will only be in opposition for two more years and that he is already aware that after that we are coming to power and I am glad that HDZ has informed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And as for this writing of the timing of my speeches, you're just flattering me, keep up the timing and sentences, maybe you'll learn something, it'll take you two years to go to the opposition, maybe use a few tricks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107654	But a colleague of the Brkans was looking for a breach of his rules of procedure, so we'll see what he...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107655	Thank you. Mrs. Prosecution has been injured by an officer. In 238, I forgot to say in the tenth minute your husband took the floor and then immediately at the beginning to declare himself psychic, and his announcements prophetic and continues with the bridge. You are probably calling for new elections because you are counting on third luck, twice after the parliamentary elections you entered the government with HDZ twice you were expelled. You're counting on a third time, maybe we should stick around.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107656	You're getting a warning from a colleague, Brkan, because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107657	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Rasdic. So I fully understand your need as an opposition to criticise, that you are trying in every way possible to reduce the results of this government that is really dealing with all the difficulties in this challenging time in the best possible way. But I don't really understand that you don't realize that with your attitudes like this, with this kind of criticism, there's really nothing really good about you in this country. You're just losing credibility. You just said that people are moving away, that people are moving away from politics. That's exactly the kind of attitude you take away people from politics. Are you aware, did you hear that our men were now carrying oil to Germany after Easter? That one Germany, from now on you can buy at the oil store. When you saw somewhere in Croatia that anything was missing from the goods, from the food, from the fuel, from the heating, anything. So give it to me once, Admit it, something's good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107658	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the reply to the replica, colleague Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107659	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, you insult all of us MPs who are very well aware of this, so there is no oil in the shops in Germany, and in Croatia it is not. You know why? In Croatia, few households can afford to buy from their salary oil supplies for a year. A little bit. You can do it. In Croatia, I can't, but you're not aware that most retirement families and households can buy 1 litre of oil per month And it can't be 10, so you've got enough oil. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic, colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107660	My colleague Bencic, a very creative attempt to explain why there is no oil shortage in Croatia, but it is a reminder because it was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Replica response, colleague Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107661	Here, you say there's oil on the shelves. And even if it were to open the door for us to see how many of them are in your wetlands. I think it's a real question that interests the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and when you talk about reducing results, I can only tell you one thing. There's no shrinking because the results don't exist. Two key problems Croatia has encountered over the past period, pandemics and earthquakes, 0 renovations, one of the largest number of deaths in Europe. So, from me, it would be a creative attempt to bring you to a positive zero with your results, and to reduce something that doesn't even exist can't exist anyway, and when you open the door of your pantyhose, I don't know, but it seems like the BOOK might do it for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107662	Comrade Habian, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107663	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you have called me directly in your presentation twice, which shows me that I am obviously very dear, I have not arrived at the beginning of your presentation because the president has set a rather short break for lunch, so I apologized, but I am touched by your concern that you are not sure whether I will enter HS again, however, I have been touched by your statement to one daily newspaper that you and your husband, Mr. Rasudic, Bruce Lee, have been living much worse recently since you entered politics, that your incomes have fallen greatly. So now I'm interested in this whole situation of yours and the whole of this... The performance and this proposal of yours, how does it all fit you together? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No more 5th day, no more, how do you say easy money in HS, so how are you going to vote ultimately for this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107664	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107665	As for my husband, he learned in time how to fight in the dragon's nest because he probably anticipated that he would come here to the Assembly where HDZ is in most of which a hero could still shoot down. And as far as the second part of your question is concerned, I fully understand that from the perspective of the HDZ someone unusually gets into politics, and then his incomes fall because your account is clear. Whoever enters politics, there is, not only to gain it, but to secure themselves and all the next generations, so I can only express my understanding of your surprise that someone's income wasn't a priority when he chose whether to enter politics. From the perspective of one HDZ, that's really amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107666	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107667	Thank you, Honorable President, Honorable Representative Selak Rasdic, do you hold more to left-wings, Nina or right-wing men? The leftist who built civil Bosnia in BiH, where the Croats bled without knowing it belonged to that people. Today, a patriot from Pantovich, a right-wing man, full of emotions that he shows in the fifth day towards his people, what are you doing here in the next internal elections of the Mosta, him or Petrov? What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107668	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107669	You'd better take care of your own choices because as far as I can tell, they're already under way, so the heirs know how to secure their positions, and as far as we're concerned, things are always simple for us because we can agree. In the Bridge unlike HDZ, no one has ever worked on a colleague's head and it will never happen, and what is happening to you right now is clear to everyone, given the signals that come from your own camp so promote a little bit of Slavonia and other parts of Croatia and ask them what they think of the current leadership. And as for everything else, my husband was always the same, it's familiar to everyone, except here I am, little and sad and smiling that you can't dig up any corruption affair so you're stuck with Bruce Lee, you're still holding on to your dragon's nest, so Bruce Lee probably never was a hero in your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107670	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you still have one replica, so don't leave. Here you go, colleague Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107671	Thank you, Your Honor. 238. Art., ma'am. Respected MPs, I didn't mention Bruce Lee at all, whether he would be some famous actor, it's now your business to you or your husband. I asked just because there was a war in Mostar, BiH, I asked Nina left-handed, not knowing her people or the suffering that was happening today in the mentorship of time today from Pantovich, which is the difference you hold Nino to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107672	Thank you, colleague Deur, but this wasn't an injury, this was a replica and some kind of query, so I have to give you a heads-up. He will now be replicated by his colleague Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107673	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleague, here's one from Slavonia. I expected a lot more from you. Peja Grbin, he doesn't know where he lives, and it was perfectly natural that he wouldn't know, this one, answer, but we even went to your hand. On the fifth day of the week, we hold a parliamentary debate. The only ones who benefited from the fifth day are you and your husband, then Croatian television was the best TV in the world, it was not regimeal. You hugged her, you kissed the same phone booth about three, four months ago, you said enough of her, no more, no more, we can't go on. The only thing we've come up with from that policy of yours is that Nicole Grmoya will be the new chief of police who will beat and beat anyone who won't approve his mandates with a public notary. It's the only thing that I've ever, in these two years, been articulating from the entire bridge policy that you and this team are leading on this right hand side of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107674	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107675	If someone had told me that there were so many fans on Day 5 on the right side of the assembly and that you'd all been following it so much that you'd miss it so much, I would never believe it. Thank you for that, I hope that you enjoy the same debates that you can follow several times a week, and as far as the policies we stand for, dear colleague, I personally, if we look at statistics, the most active parliamentary representative, you can also follow all the legal proposals, if you are interested in the content at all, as well as all the discussions in which I participated. But since you're not interested in content, the only thing you really care about is when there's a potential crackdown. Because you want to portray the opposition as destructive, but the situation is very different, look at all our activities, and we'll see who's really doing something, and who's just getting away with it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107676	Thank you very much. Now I call on my colleague Rasputic, he has seven replicas. The first is Comrade Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107677	Thank you, President-in-Office, dear colleague Rasdic, if we leave all the relevant facts that are listed and will be indicated why HS should be disbanded, I will ask you one other question. It's never good in life to generalize. I personally know that there are colleagues in HDZ who call HDZ's return to valuable roots essentially what they were. On the other hand, I do know again that in the HDZ, the vast majority of these people are not satisfied with the policy of Andrej Plenkovic, who pushed them, if we have in mind Istanbul, the SDSS and everything else, lefter than the SDP. For what reason is this not an opportunity for these people to go back to where they really want to go? For what reason will he vote against the disbanding of HS?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107678	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107679	I am convinced that they will vote for the disbandment of HS because we have heard today the counterarguments that in the polls of their great, that the people loves them, that they give confidence, that the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has done a lot of good things for Croatia, that he has done a colossal thing for the Croats from BiH, because the Strategic Compass put the notion of constituent peoples standing in the Constitution of BiH, so after such results, I am convinced that the HDZ in the next election would get 90 clean mandates, and that it would not be brought into a situation that as an electoral minority with the help of minority representatives who had first torn apart in such a way, and did not wait, which was a good democratic practice, to form the majority, and then to have the opportunity to articulate and to realise the interests of the communities that they represent. So I wouldn't deny at all that possibility that colleagues from the ruling minority in the alliance with minorities who represent themselves as the ruling majority to vote for Parliament's disbandment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107680	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107681	Thank you, President of HS, colleague Rasdic, for coming out of the data, for the report by Pfizer to his shareholders, page 6, page 3, where at Risk Management, shareholders are asking Pfizer if we are going to get a permanent permit for the vaccine and CO, the head of Pfizer says no, because we have too many side effects. So these are official documents. I wonder if you think Minister Beros knew that, whether he should have told the Croatian public about the truth and why he paid 30, more than 30 million taxpayers' money for a drug that is the American CDSE of... said it didn't help, that it wasn't effective in the treatment, so Covida, and do you think that Minister Beroš, given the purchase of instruments worth 5 million kunas, and the Ministry paid them 11 million kunas will soon end up where some of his predecessors ended up, and that's a wrinkle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107682	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107683	When I said earlier that I was prophetic, I did not invite Andrej Plenkovic to the meeting, but he invited me, so he publicly said that he would invite Professor Markotic to spend his time at Covid's departments and then we would discuss each other. Now, the old gentleman rule is when someone calls you to a duel, he throws a glove, and the one who's invited has the right to choose the place of the duel. That's why I chose a place in front of the Remetec prison, by the old gentleman's rule I choose, where I turned out to be a double gentleman because they feel at home there. Then it wasn't from this band yet, and then this opened up, Horvat, Zalac, Petric, everything else that went on, plus these now going into investigation, we're going to see what happens to Beroshe today. A huge business is turned around. It doesn't need to be clumsy and too harsh, the whole world is in a new decision situation some should have made quickly. However, they themselves took full responsibility, did not want to go after the article. 17 but in half, they placed under the mark secretly beyond the Law of Public Procurement, Well, that responsibility will be questioned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107684	Thank you very much. Comrade Commissioner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107685	I thank the Honorable President, my colleague Rasdic, here you have said in your statement that the renewal is zero, in the Banovina area, but I must correct you, so you must bear in mind that the total damage from the earthquake in the Banovina area is more than 5 billion euros and bear in mind that we will not be able to resolve all this damage only from the Solidarity Fund but that this government, the government, led by the HDZ, has provided funds for the reconstruction of the houses, so I note here because the public thinks that the restoration of houses, family houses, is coming from the Solidarity Fund. No, but from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, except for houses, there were great damages on the infrastructure, so on the roads, all of it, except donors and volunteers, whom I thanked countless times, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was helped to resuscitate, to establish life in that area, and here I am afraid what would be at the head of your government that was Had an opportunity [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which orbits only along the way and the populist earthquake area [[Thank you, colleagues.]] For selfies and similar purposes [[Intruder: Fellow Comes thank you very much.]] And if you go to the choice you can take your parole MOST lie. [[Intruder: Do you hear me, the rest, it's been a very long time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107686	Comrade Comes! Just, just a minute, Commissioner, you're new to the assembly, you're new to the assembly, but like all other MPs and MPs, you have to stick to the rules that exist here, so I won't give you a warning now, but next time I will, but a colleague of the Grmoya for the injury, not a colleague of Škoro and a colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go, fellow Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107687	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm older in the assembly, so I can get a warning. Article 238 has been injured, the colleagues are not true. Dear colleagues, I want to donate 50,223 kunas of money to a family in Banovina that I have earned and that would have given them, but it's impossible because your prime minister's government will take 13% of the value added tax, they'll take my taxes, they'll take my contributions, and they'll still tax them for donation. It is a state of affairs in Croatia and how money can be given to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107688	Comrade Škoro, of course you'll get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now a colleague of the bush will come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107689	Thank you. Article 238, the mayor of Petrinja constantly deceives the public. He claims someone's going to Banovina to take a picture. I want to remind her here's a DVD that's been given to our representatives and members of the Most because they've been covering the roofs in Nebojan for 20 days, and you're saying we're going to take a picture there. And you attacked me because I called you because you're back on the cut and you're You said that I was lying... [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] You didn't have to return it, but you did. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107690	Still brought him back in one heavy... [[Agreement: You get a warning from your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107691	..still brought him back in one heavy...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107692	You'll get a second warning, you'll get a third one and you won't be able to speak, please. Injury, you're getting a warning. My colleagues, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107693	... Croatian citizens as you know, and Mr. Grmoya here is not heard when I told you if you go to the elections you can take the password MOST is lying. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107694	Comrade Commissioner, you get a warning this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but two replicas in one request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Let's move on, now it's time to re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107695	Thank you very much, President. Col. Grumoj injured Article 238 by disdaining our colleague Magdalen Komes, the mayor of Petrinja who became mayor thanks to the citizens' trust and citizens are those who always decide on each of us and decide which moves are best and who should lead the local environment and state as well as citizens have shown that the best move at the start of the government's mandate was to throw Most out of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107696	You get a warning from a fellow Mazhar, this was also a replica. Now a colleague of the Troscotts will also report a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107697	Article 238, I refer to Mrs. Commissioner's presentation, and I think that the best answer was the satisfaction of what was done on Banovina right in front of the church when people shot the Prime Minister and perhaps Mrs. Commes with their breasts. And this is the only relevant fact, therefore, of expressing the dissatisfaction of the local population and the dynamics and all those promises that Banovina unfortunately emigrates, that this is the only county where pensioners are higher than the number of working people. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Troscott.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107698	A fellow Troscott you get a reminder this was also a pure replica, so let's move on now it's time for the replica of counterpart Selak Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107699	Dear, yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107700	Excuse me, is, is, is, is, excuse me, here's a reply to the replica of my colleague, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107701	I don't understand what you referred to in my speech because you didn't deny anything. So, I said that 2 years and 3 months since the earthquake in Zagreb nothing and a half years have been restored since the Banovina earthquake that there is no renewal. I'm sorry you performed like this. We split into two parts at the moment of the earthquake. Part of it was on the ground the whole time Saturday, Marina Miletic and the Rijeka boys were assigned a thank-you note to Nebojan, where HDZ's chief. Miro Bulj was, he didn't just bring people, but he brought the best masters from both Sinj and the trucks and the help trucks. The Troscott lived there for two months. I guess those complimentary notes from the HDZ chiefs are saying something. We have done the second part, with architects, urbanists, lawyers, economists, builders in 20 days, the day before, working on the full guidelines for the restoration of Banovina and today you could use them after losing a year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107702	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, please choose your replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107703	I'll make it up to this, that colleague Rasudiæ we made guidelines for the Banovina recovery strategy 20 days after the earthquake in agreement with the experts and exposed some hodogram of reconstruction. And what happens today? Today we have a resolute minister, a new minister who presented to the public a plan to speed up the recovery, be careful the acceleration has no recovery plan, because the reconstruction never happened, he was already on speed, and when he was due to come before the committee responsible who called him just to show that plan suddenly takes him another month to put it together. So, after the minister taken by Uskok, we have the minister's bluff. So much for who contributed to the restoration. And I'm going to ask you, given that HDZ is very burdened with what kind of ideology you're taking, how do you interpret that they are more inspired by the dragon's nest than Bruce Lee?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107704	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107705	As far as ideology is concerned, people are evaluating, some are coming. There is a phenomenon that left-handed people in Croatia come after 50. This happened with President Tudjman, with Zdravko Tomc, perhaps it happens with Milanovic. I wouldn't have any problem if I had evolved with years ago than 10 or 15 years ago, but about 600 of my columns have been published in 4 books in the last 15 years of writing. It's over 3,000 cards, hundreds and hundreds of hours of video material, please find me something that would be more to God's left or that I supported the civil concept. And if you think that Bruce Lee is some kind of Zeljko Komsic or Bakir Izetbegovic who advocates, Bruce Lee stood up for these things in BiH, so he gave him a monument, and we, as students of young people, had to raise a monument to defenders for what it took your partners over 20 years in Mostar, and a million marks a day came to BiH, a day, when I'm talking about who was supposed to raise which monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107706	Thank you very much. Let's move on, fellow Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I will dissipate. You also mentioned the Croats of BiH who are extremely hard to live for, there are fewer and fewer of them and often we get letters complaining and asking us for help. I'm afraid there isn't any help. How much on the state, do you think, the political situation of the Croats in BiH has been affected by this evident and whiteish, poor electoral law, and how much is the fact that it was in 2006. Supported by the Zagreb HDZ broken political corps of Croats in BiH to HDZ and HDZ in 1990.? Is it possible that there is a problem and the fact that Croats have not had political unity since then, and everything is as expensive as I say 100% from Zagreb, you and I, but colleagues in HDZ know it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107708	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107709	Comrade Škoro, I think that we all in Croatia, and we should not be far from reaching a consensus on the position of Croats in BiH where we are really only looking for what we are looking for for and for other peoples in BiH, and that is important. And that we should not set ourselves up as tutors to anyone, we all have some Croatian options that are closer to us than agree that we will fully support Croatian interests the way their legitimate political representatives articulate, so the leading Croatian parties in BiH. Yes, responsibility lies partly on the leadership of Croats in BiH and on some of the loops from Croatia, but let us not forget that in such a way the electoral law has been forged, that the best people of Mother Teresa and most capable of being run by Croats that Bosniaks can revote them from the House of People to the presidency at any time. And just the change of electoral law would allow real pluralism among Croats in BiH because this is how Croats homogenize around the strongest option though Many of them would not have done so if they were not in fear of voting. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107710	Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107711	Thank you, Mr. President. By listening to counterpart Selak Raspoudić and you for the past 20 minutes, there has been an impression that there has been a modification on the Croatian political scene Mosta in OPG Raspadić-Selak Raspoudić family parliamentary economy Rasudić-Selak Raspoudic. Some bad voices say the OPG means leaving Petrov-Grue which I would not agree with knowing the tenacity of my Mets when it comes to fighting on a political scene so that it will not allow you to do so, but I have replicated for another reason. You mentioned the word cowardice several times. You know what cowardice is? When one opposition pa was one and the O.P.G. called the government for 20 minutes, and he finds a business trick that doesn't lead that same government to a duel here. If you wanted to slander the government for 20 minutes then you could find another business an instrument such as recalling the question [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And then you'd be in that duel having what you wanted [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague BAčić.]] and not in this way hide behind a business model like this. [[Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague BAčić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107712	You have two warnings don't... get me a third. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107713	I didn't understand this the last time, and what, uh, excuse me for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107714	Col. Selak Raspoudic's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107715	Art. The 238th demeaning of legitimately elected parliamentary deputies who stand by the number of votes so that most HDZ deputies cannot be measured with them. The fundamental difference between OPG Rasdić and OPG according to the HDZ model that is ruling Croatia is next, in order for us as an OPG to come to HS citizens to choose us, and for the OPG HDZ to rule Croatia he will go beyond the competitions of law and the will of Croatian citizens as is the case today. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107716	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ thank you very much. This is a warning, it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I see you now and colleague Jelkovac, as I have announced I warn you you have two warnings that you may get a third, you will not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107717	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm aware that I have two warnings, but my colleague has been injured by an officer. The 238th Rules of Procedure because it defames us of the representatives of the HDZ. My colleagues, if you were elected by the citizens, and we were elected by the citizens, but you must also know that in power comes regular elections. What you're trying to do here is really nakarad, and this isn't going to happen to you. help strengthen your position politically. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107718	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, you are losing your right to speak, this was also a replica and you can no longer participate in the debate. You don't want to see your colleague Selak Rasdic anymore? Okay. Then let's go to the last line, and yet let me apologize. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107719	I appreciate your concern for the political future of Grmoya, especially God Petrova as party president because I know what you are... I know what you've been doing to your party presidents after they've fallen, when the tree falls, everyone jumps on it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what I can guarantee you, God make us live, that in both 10 and 20 and 30 years I will surely be friends with God Petrov and with Grmoy, and as you treated Ivo Sanader, to Jadranka Kosor, to Karamark, and how tomorrow you will treat Plenkovic when he goes away, so... that's the difference between us and your OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107720	Now I'm so sorry I can't say anything, but good. Nothing, nothing. There were a lot of people... [[I forgot about you, who's behind my back, so I forgot about the wolf. Okay, okay, okay.]] No, no, there were a lot of people in the Bridge, so they didn't exactly stay in good relationships as I remember when they left. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's not when my colleague Rasdic gave me a little chance after all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nothing, we're going to the last line of our colleagues, Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107721	Dear colleague Rasdic. Here you are here today to continue such a relatively successful game that he started, a performance initiated by fellow Peja Grbin this morning. I have to tell you it's easy when you know what you're looking for isn't going to happen because you don't want it yourself, but not because it's your wishes, but because most of them are stable. We don't have a problem with going to the election tomorrow, you've seen what the party rating is like from week to week, I don't know where you are. Are you sure you'd be representatives again after the election? Well, here's a play you can keep playing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107722	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107723	Thank you. The polls always gave us less, according to the survey I should not enter the parliament, and the Jutarnji list spread seven days before the elections Raspedic did not get 4%, so it got twice as much. And by these polls, we're... we're getting into a council a lot more. But that's not why we're looking for impeachment, we've cited a whole series of arguments, and it's the fact that in a situation where nothing has been restored for two years in Zagreb, a year and a half in Banovina that your Minister of Reconstruction ends directly in prison is enough in every democratic country, civilized for the downfall of the government and a new demand for legitimacy from citizens, not to mention everything else. So that's just it. And as for the show with Mr. Grbino, perhaps you're concerned that your strategic partner might be taken from you. Your coat of arms and his hands were clapping when you pushed the Istanbul Convention, and I never got a round of applause from the coat of arms. I've been given the coat of arms charges to paralyze to death about it, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107724	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas, now I'm going to open a debate and we're going to go to the first club of representatives that's the Bridge, they're going to talk to two representatives of their colleagues, Mr. Grmoy and colleague Troscott. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107725	If anyone here in the assembly could talk about corruption by ruling it, not because I know more than you, means other fellow MPs, not because I'm smarter than you, not because I speak better than you, but because I'm in that position as president of the Anti-Corruption Council. On a daily basis, citizens send me plays that warn me about the corruption of rulings, not only at the state level but at lower levels in their cities, municipalities, in their counties, they send me complaints about employment in state institutions, public institutions, state companies. But I don't really have a stomach to talk about the corruption of the ruling, I don't have a stomach, and there's no need. Whoever wanted to see that saw it. And believe me, you're not good at your colleagues' polls, so comfort yourself. Look how much you've won the election, and how much you have now, even if those polls are correct, and I assure you that they're not, that you're much worse in reality. You fell from 36% to 25%, and now you have a thin majority, now you have a thin majority with the help of minority deputies. So you have no chance of coming to power and for Croatia it would be medical for you at least eight years of opposition, and for you too it would be healing. Maybe there's still a chance that you can save your soul, save your soul in a political sense, not think about your souls personally, about it only dear God can judge, I mean HDZ as a political structure. And what I'm about to talk about is using these two-and-a-half minutes of debates, I was tagged by one of our former Facebook colleagues, my colleague Alexic, and then I called him this morning. What's this about? According to the EU court, the pilot's hand in the Franak case is 55,000 of our citizens where the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that when they were 2015. went into conversion that they gave up the rights to compensation even though then the currency clause was not yet declared harmful, so it happened several years later than this conversion. So the government of the Republic of Croatia stabs the back of Croatian citizens. And then what will the EU court do but wash its hands. So the government plays for banks, not Croatian constructions. What's the reason for that? Some say this arbitration in Washington, where the government has agreed with banks, banks will withdraw the lawsuit in Washington, and the government will play for banks in the EU court in return. I don't like to share labels so easily traitors, high-level traitors, but I can't characterize this any other way than a treasonous policy, so the government's policy that goes to the expense of 55,000 Croatian families and the game for banks. Shame! That's enough reason for this government to fall and go to early elections. If we take all these affairs aside and we're so kind to Prime Minister Plenkovic and we say, a good man only misrepresents, he chooses bad associates. So if we are completely kind to him and we say that man has nothing to do with corruption only mischoice, he chooses his associates, but this move shows that the entire government is working against the interests of Croatian citizens. He'll continue his colleague, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107726	Like this, I'll just pick up where the bush left off. So our further argument is that this government has been working intensively in recent years on the Hungarianisation of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia. Just look at the reports of Plinar or, say, CROTE, to see that the number of gas pipelines entering Hungary has increased, and the prime minister himself has spoken recently, not long ago, in fact, that he will buy the INU. None of that happened. For the Hungarianisation of the CNB, I don't even have to speak for the reason that the CNB governor got a gift, I haven't seen it anywhere in the world that the governor of the National Bank got a gift from a government, for which, for the Hungarianisation of the financial sector. Now, the still incriminating Coric, who has worked intensively on the Hungarianisation of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, and his wife and renewables will still come, will now get a position as governor of the CNB to continue further and Hungarianisation and energy and financial sectors. Now, I have the authority to say this at the heart of the sohon emeles master orszag, which is that the Croatian country will never be Hungary despite what the Prime Minister and Coric and all the other players in Herdervar's spirit are doing on the Hungarianisation of the energy and financial sector. I can also raise the issue that Prime Minister Plenkovic is working intensively to implement Russia's economic strategy. My question today is next. What am I based on? Can I ask you ladies and gentlemen today why we don't have economic sanctions on, say, Little Losinj? Or in Croatian we will ask if Crimea is Ukrainian whether Mali Lošinj is Croatian and therefore I do not need Google translates Ukrainian to ask that question. The second argument is the Paladin itself, so in the way that man burned our pensions, how he literally burned our pensions, how he burned the NEK fund, and thus damaged the storage of nuclear waste, and then we can go to Mandre and nicely dump nuclear waste in his backyard. And it still charges everything another 8 million kuna so that he and his family can pay us back what he literally took from the NEK fund which is connected to the Ministry of Economy and which is paying money into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And that second argument is that all of his assets, so Mr. Paladin got no less or less in collaboration with Sergei Diadelkin, so now we're talking about another argument where it's still the implementation of hungry players who are tied to Russian capital. The legitimate question is this if Lithuania, which today has 16% inflation as well as all the Baltic countries, is importing the embargo on Russian gas, whether it will do this to Croatia or will continue to force certain gas boilers and earn additional nooses on the energy situation in the Republic of Croatia or we will finally start with the model of the island of Krk or Cres, and we will be doing photoelectricals on roofs where energy independence on an individual level could be done automatically, not to satisfy the king's wind, rather than to satisfy the king's gases and not to satisfy the king's thermoelectric power plants burning in lignite and thus burn both BiH and Serbia. Furthermore, Fortenova, therefore that capital was transferred to the Hungarian capital Jelinek who bought there by Primosten hotels etc., one chair man did not replace, but it is well known and Bloomberg has proved that Jelinek is connected to the Shogor of Orban, and Orban via financial reports and ownership structures of the energy and financial system is tied to Putin. Do you see now how our prime minister is doing directly, what he is doing indirectly in the conduct of Russia's economics? strategies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107727	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107728	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues during this morning's debate we heard incredible arguments and arguments from the HDZ why this initiative is not needed. We heard among other things as an argument that their coalition is solid, the coalition is stable, so why should this government be questioned at all. The fact that the coalition is stable is just a reflection of the political chaos and the collapse of every political value because the coalition manages to be firm despite the government's not, which the government is not. Calling this government stable is literally Alan Ford's thing, the Superhick thing. How stable is the government in which, and I call this the Government of Continuity since 2016, in which a dozen ministers have left because of corruption or those for whom criminal proceedings already exist or because criminal proceedings have been known to begin? How can a government that can't be stable for nearly six months now choose the head of a key agency for the distribution of eu funds, and eu funds are the main thing you're boasting about? How can the government in which the prime minister cannot get members of his party to be his ministers be stable? Your party doesn't want to be ministers in this government. And that's a stable government? Ask Bačić why he's not the Minister of Construction why Mr. Paladin is? Ask how long it took for the prime minister to find replacements for the officials who were removed. Ask the prime minister how many people he had to ask before he got to those who are now just replacing on his toy bench. And that only the replacements and possible temporary replacements were said by him because he said both Aladrovic and Mr Milosevic welcome them always to the government if it turns out that the criminal proceedings will not be conducted. However, these affairs are not the worst that is happening in this country, nor are they the only reason why we have launched Parliament's disbandation. The key reason is that nothing in this country is happening because of these affairs, the key reason is that you have not implemented, but not one reform since 2016. which you have repeated year after year in the reform plans, and I will count them all for you today, each year you send them as a proposal for Brussels and none has been implemented. No basics were carried out that you instructed in the reform plans like I don't know, the establishment of a centre of shared services, and that failed your competition last year. The worst part, the worst part is that today you've been talking about the 2000 SDP government I don't know about, the SDP government that was until 2014, and I can really have a lot of complaints about how it was then, but gentlemen dear, that government built the highway in 2000 in three years. You haven't been able to build one house in two years after the earthquake in Zagreb, one. Mrs. Mrak Taritas two years after the flood in Gunja were absolutely all, 2160 houses were renovated in Gunja, two years after the earthquake in Zagreb zero, zero. So don't even compare yourself, you're digging yourself a pit. No matter how many complaints I have on everything that has not been made in these governments, for two years and we have zero renovated newly built houses in Zagreb. I'm not talking about Bania. The mayor of Petrinja came as a replacement to the parliament, as a replacement to the Parliament, the mayor of Petrinja, who should first be engaged in reconstruction in Petrinja, and she had to come because you no longer have benches because they're all done.../The speaker's off./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107729	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Stay, stay here, please. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107730	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues Bencic, I will not expect from you after this replica of mine that you have a magic wand and answer, but is it really startling that there is no O from the renovations, there is no renewal. More than two years have passed in the city of Zagreb in the area of Banovina for more than a year and it is being restored in fact who in the expectation of Godot who did not eventually come, so I fear that in the end there will be no renewal. So what does the prime minister do? Bring, bring a top manager who'll manage. What exactly will he manage? His property, his interest in a ministry called the Department of State Property Management as an alibi for why there will be no renewal. So we don't need an alibi for why the renovation won't be, we know it won't be, but the alibi needs HDZ for some future elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107731	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107732	Mrs. Dark Tarritash, I'd be happy to answer your question. Yes, there is no renewal, that the prime minister is looking for an alibi and I will actually formulate a third as a question, how is it possible that in a situation where he replaces the minister whom he has arrested selects the person at the head of the most important resort currently in Croatia, he chooses the person for whom we needed a new business institute, the recall before the appointment, we really needed it. So anyone who Googled it could see that the man had robbed the hydropower and the IGH. Anyone who cornered it could see that the man had 10% in the Coopers project and not only that, but he's not coming out of ownership because he has three property disputes with them because he's asking for more money than what the owners give him. And you named it without a pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107733	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107734	Dear colleagues. Not only is the number of newly built houses zero, but also where people themselves set out to rebuild and give it to the ministry, give the fund all the necessary documentation, they don't get the money in the budget as a fol. You remember how we reduced the item that was supposed to be refurbishment in rebalancing, we reduced it because they couldn't do their job but it still goes on, so they couldn't even start the process of rebuilding the buildings of the Parliament and the Government of the 2nd. After the earthquake, not the parliament, not the government. And now I'm asking you, the Paladin has presented five points, if anyone knows what those five points are about and how those five points should speed up the restoration if they even exist or come down to what is number 5 and the digitization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107735	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107736	Can I give you my word or am I insignificant here completely?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107737	Excuse me, you're very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107738	Here you go, dear counsel Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107739	Thank you, thank you. My fellow coat of arms, so this government didn't make it in two years. to arrange for the company to restore its roof over someone else's head. It's, it's, it's amazing, look out it's amazing, so it's 2.g. There, 2160 houses are restored, no company can be contracted here to restore the parliament or government. I mean, here I am, I really believe, I really believe that all of you around it is that mild discomfort, I hope. As for Paladin and his 5 points, the first thing that Paladin repeated in those 5 points is what we've all been saying here, all of us here before the adoption of the first Rehabilitation Act, about how they have to concentrate in one place, the issue of documentation needs to be reduced by the number of actors in this, that the procedures should be accelerated in a way that there is no unnecessary red tape, etc., but he said it all on the general level. We've had concrete solutions, he's got about five points he doesn't know how to implement in detail and that's why these dots aren't, he's only got his cosmetics to cover up his affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107740	Thank you very much. Don't, you've gone too long, so please hold on. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107741	Comrade Bencic, we both have Zagorje's blood, so we know that saying, "Silent water on the banks." I wouldn't agree with you if it wasn't for the reform. True, there were no reforms that were held and drawn forward, but there were reforms that undermined itself, the very foundation of the statehood of those reforms that made the state weak. HDZ has euthanized independent state bodies, especially those with a certain anti-corruption role, has weakened the independence of the judiciary, now the judges are checking our secret services looking for compromising materials with which the government will blackmail them when deciding on highly corrupt ministers and other affairs. What do we do? I think we should explain to the citizens what the state will look like one day when this HDZ government is being replaced, and I believe you have something to say about that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107742	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107743	Thank you. The fact is that Croatia is not in these 6 years. The governments of Andrej Plenkovic have not begun to take a step, nor have they taken a step with the EU. The fact that we are all indicators of quality of life, infrastructure, economy, etc. at the bottom of the EU scale. The fact is, when they asked the prime minister the other day, he's now the longest-ever prime minister, so they asked him what your results were in the 6th year, he didn't know the word, he didn't know the word of the people. He said he had a difficult mandate, he had, I don't, I don't dispute that mandate was difficult, a pandemic, earthquakes, is, but 6 years old. You don't know how to say one result except we built the Peljek Bridge, how many bridges were built when the highway was built? He's six years old. One bridge built so that he took the money from the EU and gave it to the Chinese construction sector because he destroyed his construction sector according to the model.../The speaker turned off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107744	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107745	Dear colleague, let's get back to the HDZ satellites, as far as I can tell, there's none here, so we don't know if they support this government, whether they want to disband the assembly or not. Mr. Hrebak, however, has said quite liberally that Croatia needs stability, not freedom of choice, although the liberals have always advocated freedom of choice, but such freedom may not have brought a place in the assembly again. Or, let's say, Mr. Pupovac gave conditional support to the director of HRT in his own time, and as far as I can see, he's also giving unconditionally because he's editing HRT policy or part of Mr. Cacic's representative. He publicly advocates the government of the left center, so I'm wondering if he's still up for it or he's changed his mind because he's saying a little something, so he's having second thoughts. Where is Silvano Hrelja, the first official chip of this government? What do you think of the support of this government and this commercial majority when there are not exactly their most important satellites?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107746	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107747	Thank you. The fact that there are no HDZ coalition partners here today, it's not an accident at first, it's not an accident. They're not here because they know, because they understand that I can't answer questions, that I can't replicate, that I can't speak on behalf of my clubs in a way that will defend the HDZ government, I mean, well, that's, that's, I, I understand that they can't do that. On the other hand, they are trying to hide themselves from Croatian citizens and hide the fact that they support the government that has failed, supporting it for the reasons that they know that the elections will not pass the threshold, and I guarantee them that they will take this courageous step, perhaps politically survive, if they do not make it for 2nd year. They don't exist, how many they swallow HDZ and their affairs so HDZ will push them through and they won't be in 2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107748	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bencic, you mentioned the highway allegedly built by the left government in 3 years, but the invoices are working. So the idea of the highway was created in 1961, the academic Roglic brought it out, in the 1970s, the first stock was made. It's also true that in the 1970s, when it was over, it was called a self-dependency, and apparently these money went to build a Belgrade-Bar railroad, I don't know, they didn't teach me that at college, but this sure did. The left government was when it came to power in 2000. She said she was in the St. Roc tunnel that passed the regiment. Franjo Tudjman can quote "cruise mushrooms" So it's a fact, though, that these works started early and that he was without a competition but also signed contract with Bechtel, so they didn't build the highway in 3 years, but they did a lot, here's just a invoice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107750	Oh, there you go, Mr. Scoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107751	Comrade Bencic, let's go slowly, slowly, You'll be there, you'll be there. [[I'm sorry, so let's speed it up.]] Dear, honourable representative Bencic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107752	Thank you. My colleague Škoro, I said with all the objections I have and certainly the affairs that were later good, although when HDZ took over some shares there were all kinds of the same phenomena and I'm not saying that there was no problem here, but tell me, here you tell me about any infrastructure procedure today, if you can make a project documentation at 3 years, so don't make a project documentation in 3 years, let alone to start a bargaining process, let alone to get the works started. Well, we haven't been able to make the centre of shared services with all the European Union's money, so I mean nothing digitally, nothing infrastructure. We don't know where the money is, we don't know where it is, so we don't have a big project to boast about any physical or digital infrastructure. It's a shame to me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107753	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, and the time will be shared by respected representatives Milanovic litre and respected representative Sačić. First of all, the respected representative Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107754	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, okay, here I was talking a little bit today during my request for a break about apathy, about the way in, about perception of actually citizens about politics and politicians. I think that we should all be concerned and the way people perceive the Croatian Parliament. In fact, even 54% if I'm not mistaken for Croatian voters did not go to the polls. It's a worrying number. All of us have contributed in some way to this, but still feels that the greatest responsibility is in the ruling. That the ruling have the greatest responsibility for the failure of the player, the voter pardons. Of course the opposition, and the opposition there has the same part of responsibility. But we must be aware that 50 of those 54% of voters who are not Croatian Parliament would look very different today. HDZ probably wouldn't be in power, and I guess the left-hand side wouldn't have that many votes either. So I think that we should all be the goal of making this one political discourse successful and finding a way...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107755	A colleague Milanović litre just a moment. My colleagues and colleagues I ask you nicely if you need some arrangements, for some talks please go outside and do not disturb the speaker, it is not correct, it is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107756	Yeah, well, it's about not being able to speak on behalf of the motionor and having two applicants, we don't know on the basis of which decision, so we now have to adapt to that debate so the current question is given your decision that we will also seek the interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107757	I, first of all, can you speak when I give you my word, that's one thing. The other thing is, of course, when the debate is united, then behind each, you can pick up behind each but of course one proposaler, not two proposings like you don't have if you accidentally thought of six replicas, but three replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107758	No, so a united debate when we have one applicant is one thing, and the other is a two-proposer debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107759	My colleague, you can't argue like this. This way. [[Intruder: Of course.]] I'm giving you a warning now. So I'm asking you nicely that this one, if you have anything to discuss, come out, make a deal, discuss it, and it'll be fine. Here's a colleague of Sacic's. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107760	Hurt...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107761	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107762	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, so we have two proposings...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107763	I'm sorry, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107764	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107765	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107766	Yeah, so if we have two proposings...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107767	What does that have to do with Article 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107768	And may I say by the end of the vice president's assembly? I've got 30 seconds to try...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107769	What difference does it make, no, no, you can't talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107770	Well, I can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107771	... calling for Article 238, to talk about whether or not you can negotiate with another... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107772	Well, I didn't, but I didn't tell you what this injured Rules of Procedure was, I couldn't even tell you, you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107773	Yes, you said, in 238 that it doesn't stand in, it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107774	Dear Vice President, I rarely raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I take great care when I raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure to that effect. On behalf of the promoter, two applicants spoke twice in 20 minutes, and now they can't speak twice in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107775	Please. Because it has nothing to do with Article 238, you get a warning, and of course you can't because it's united and that's how it's going to be. And that's said in advance, so please, let's not go back to the same stories and the same, same one now. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107776	The President-in-Office was injured in Article 238, paragraph 1 of the Intruders and the Disruption of Speakers. My esteemed colleague Milanović Liter, you broke up, allowed his thought that the Croatian public, on the polls, did not know what he could say because colleagues and colleagues do not respect the basic principles of parliamentary democracy, have problems, but let them stand out in the foyers and let them discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107777	My colleague, Sacic, it's me, I just told them, and I just asked them not to interrupt the speaker, so you don't have to do my job, do this, do my job. Uh, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's an injury. Article 233(2) The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS which regulates the matter of time specified for the speech of the proposing representatives. So, we have a situation here that is a united debate where we don't have a single proposer. That is why the president allowed representatives and one and the other proposings to have a separate rather than a pooled opening exhibition at the beginning, that is the first. And secondly, it's not true that these rules were said at the outset, I've been here since the start of the debate, and there's no point in talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107779	It is true that there were two proposings, however it is not, does not mean that after each presentation, representatives of each proposal can speak. It's just not like that. If you think I'm wrong, you know better than me, probably the one that's the way to solve it, right? Excuse me, colleague Milanović litre, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107780	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107781	All right, this esteemed representative, Skoro, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what did he get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107782	Thank you very much, sir. And you're the one who hurt the Art. 236. The Rules of Procedure of the HS who says, I will quote, I have already said, to the MP who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives the order as soon as this request, the speech of that representative cannot last longer than half a minute, and the MP must immediately specify the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is speaking. The chairman is obliged to provide an explanation after the complaint has been made. So that's what it says in art. 236, I apologize if I misquoted it, but I didn't, I read it. You can't interrupt while you're taking out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you've hurt yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107783	Yeah, but if, but if you're referring to a completely wrong article that has nothing to do with it, then of course I do. Okay, now we want to keep working normally so that colleague Milanović litre can and colleague Sacic can, of course, speak normally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107784	Thank you, Chairman. I will actually agree here to subscribe, this may even be a good example of why this should disband the Assembly since even in the Rules of Procedure there is not a clear amount of things, but I will agree with my colleague Škor that whether you think it is hurt or not, you should allow someone who has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say their thoughts to the end that you might then conclude whether this article is hurt or not, but what good is there, what kind of state such and assembly unfortunately. I've been thinking about getting ready for today, there were a lot of topics, a lot of things we could say to each other in the last 2 years. which happened, we could refer to the previous government which is the continuation of the government's policies, but there was an interesting document on the HDZ pages called "Safe Croatia", which was published there in the summer among other points that are planned, in all the plans that this government will have 10 priorities in the next term. Now, if I didn't put too many of my views out there, I'd just read those ten priorities, so we can figure out what's been done and done and what's not done. The first point is "Praise and Sovereign Croatia", driven by patriotism and democratic values, we will continue to boldly promote national interests such as Croats in BiH, protect the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, perhaps Mr. Sačić, General Sacic, I apologize later, to strengthen the HV and the police, and to strengthen Croatia's sovereignty and influence in Europe and the world. We will continue to connect Croatia's homeland and evicted and worry about the situation of Croats in BiH and neighbouring countries. Thank God for the election law that has been changed in BiH. An effective state, we will reduce the number of ministries, you have done this, I admit it, we will halve the number of local officials, and we will enable the functional integration of municipalities with the further digitisation of public services that we will intensify and speed up, we will continue to reform the judiciary, it is started by Mr Mamić from Medjugorje, you have somehow put it on, you have passed a new Executive Law and uncompromisingly combat corruption with emphasis on its prevention, and build a society that respects human rights and the rights of national minorities. Point three, jobs and wages. We will create the conditions for opening 100,000 new places, and here we should consider that the crown was defeated in the summer, it was safe Croatia, but there was already an announcement of the autumn wave of crowns, so this should be realised and 10 billion kuna should be invested in it, by the end of the term, the average salary will be 7,600 kuna, and minimum at least 4.250, each young person will be provided with 130 thousand kunas for self-employment, we will continue to include persons with disabilities on the labour market and in society. Demographic revitalization, that's where you turned out to be extraordinary. We will provide parental benefits of full pay, double the child's allowance, subsidize 20 thousand housing loans for young families, and provide extended work in another 200 kindergartens, regulate the work of shop on Sundays, and allow everyone to spend it with the family. Here's the time, I can see it's about to end, but I'll be over the others in a hurry. Taxes, health care and pensions, education, science and industry, self-sufficiency in food and energy, reconstruction of Zagreb, uniform development. I'm sorry I can't read all this, but if you'd filled this out, I don't think today would have come to this debate. Unfortunately, it has not been fulfilled, I do not believe that it will be fulfilled by the end of the term, if I am mistaken, God forbid I am mistaken, to fulfill everything, but knowing the work of the HDZ, the ruling so far and what has been done, I do not honestly doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107785	The Honorable Representative Sacic will continue on behalf of the same person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107786	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. So today we have a specific moment in HS where opposition representatives are looking for a disbandment of parliament, and as I have read through this political history, these are moments relatively rare in this European area. In HS, it seems to me that they happened once or twice I'm not 100% sure, of course, always unsuccessful, once successfully when a representative of the ruling majority asked for Mr Karamarko's disbandment and this happened in 2016, and I didn't have a chance. However, we from the Croatian Sovereigns club, although you did not include us, the promoter did not know Mr. Grbin or colleagues and colleagues from the Mosta, we talked, but we did not formally sign anything, but we are very supportive of your proposal, although we will see when the vote will come. And why is that? Why do we support that? It is therefore in the interest of the Republic of Croatia when the majority of parliament is created and when the mandater is given confidence in this assembly to do his programmes and we have had the opportunity to hear from colleagues, unfortunately the interrupted counterpart of Litter on the Safe Croatia programme, and this programme has also been accepted by the HDZ coalition partners, much has not been achieved. I will only refer in short lines that there were also objective circumstances that have been potentiated by the problems and difficulties in the functioning of the Croatian society and Croatian government, and to the burden and damage of Croatian citizens from terrible earthquakes, we have nothing to say from Zagreb, Petrinja, Banovina, from the Corona. Now, about the crown and the covid reaction we could talk about, but I don't have enough time, I'm just going to say that there wasn't a proper reaction and in my opinion we over-granted the citizens of the Republic, did a lot of damage in 4.5 billion kuna, caused the psychotraum. Of course, it took people's lives, but the reaction could have been more appropriate than anywhere else, so the damage would have been less. In addition, we have unsuitable reactions in these two years that we are in the assembly why should there be an argument as to why the elections should be discussed is that corruption, which unfortunately still erupts however we fight, defends. Here today I had the opportunity to hear an encouraging news, the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, said that in the future, he abolished immunity on the very basis of suspicion if some minister is in corrupt criminal acts. Excellent. Well, after 30 years we're done and we get it, it'll come in the process. Now, dear opposition I dream of these elections so whoever comes to the assembly, who doesn't come, but please come together, let's unite all of us from the opposition, and maybe someone from HDZ can succeed. Let's change Mr. Grubin's electoral legislation before we create the conditions to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So what we're going to do now, Mr. Grbin, is look for new elections, disbanding the government, and yet, according to the old story, we're going to get people to vote for HDZ in the belief that they're going to get a patriotic right-wing party, at the end of the age of the government with the abolised rebels, with left-wing liberals, with concrete left-wings, or I don't know what. So we're going one step at a time to ask for a divorce, there's a reason, but let's change the electoral legislation. This is a constructive proposal. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107787	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107788	... you're always interrupting what's right in a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107789	Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107790	So three seconds, 10 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107791	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, please. You're probably looking for a break if I get it right, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107792	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS for ten minutes for additional consultations and for a break that is real, and not she declared after which you will proceed with the session further. I ask Stanku to agree that today he will continue the debate on the common agenda points and that for reasons that you as chairman cannot because you do not know on the basis of which provisions will make it impossible for the opposition to report two different proposals for a word after each speaker. There are no such rules, these are your made-up rules and your abuse of the chair you're sitting on right now. So HS is a legislative body, a legislator of all regulations and rules and it's humiliating that you take that power, that role to tailor and interpret according to your will. It is a humiliation not only of the dignity of this home, but of all Croatian citizens. Please tell us in advance what the rules of this game are that in these rules we can beat you as it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107793	Thank you very much. You said it wonderfully, and I will, of course, allow you to take a break, so here, since you want ten minutes, we'll see each other in 13 and 27 minutes, and by then they'll have to wait until they want to make a stand on behalf of the representatives clubs and independent representatives, which should have been now. It's a meeting at 13:18 p.m. Now we will return to our point and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak esteemed... And I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary, she will now speak first-respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107795	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the start of two findings, the first of the ruling HDZs together with their coalition partners is no one but the vice president who must be there for someone to lead the session, so much about it. Second thing, 2016. When the action was launched, the action was of the opposition, in order to be absolutely clear, the opposition set off on the topic of disbanding the parliament that ended successfully. So, enough would be enough for all those colleagues who are here today to look up and talk about how there's only some election, they're going to show their victory, have a chance, have a chance, vote, so let's go, let's see where we are and what we are. Although here, in this address, on behalf of the promoter, I will refer to a successful acquisition of the prime minister, and this acquisition is called Ivan Paladin. He is the minister of spatial planning and construction and state property. When it comes to him, the emphasis must be on state property. Why? So Minister Darko Horvat ended up in custody and resigned, 6 days before a debate was held in the assembly about him and his poor work. The request to discuss the confidence of Minister Horvat signed a record number of MPs and MPs, 62. However, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, that part of the government's reconstruction was done by the DORH and what happened, we got a new minister, a successful manager, a big star of the real sector, the name and last name Ivan Paladin. About what kind of manager it is and what real sector it comes from, we've heard a lot, and what I'm afraid of, and what I'm afraid of, we'll certainly hear a lot more. Where he passed the grass no longer grows, only failures and unfinished transactions remain, except for the collapse of a million-dollar private property that was mostly owned by a company he led. It has been 26 months since the earthquake in Zagreb, and since the earthquake in Banja 15 and since then nothing has happened, there has been no renewal. The first great address of the new Minister of Paladin to the Croatian public confirmed what was worried all of us would remain, he simply continued in a tone of all his predecessors and gave us a general review of the situation with the conclusion that nothing had been done. Great, he should've come to the head of the resistor and found nothing was done. In addition to showing complete incompetence, Prime Minister Plenkovic's daunting lack of will has managed to bring the whole recovery story into classical HDZ corruption mud. So the former Minister Horvat did not change because he was incompetent but because he was arrested, and then he replaced him with a man who knows nothing about the restoration, but because even before he formally took over the mandate, there is a lot of media affairs and it is clear that Prime Minister Plenkovic brought him here to say that he is not guilty of rebuilding or restoring anyone from HDZ, but that unfortunate minister is, in fact, unhappy for all those people living in containers in the area of Banja and Banovina and those who in Zagreb have not actually launched any tragic exit strategy and attempt to reduce the damage to HDZ and Plenkovic, and there is no renewal. It's not slow, the renovation's gone, the whole time I've been trying to think positively, maybe something's going on, maybe something's up, but every day I'm disappointed, there's not going to be a renovation. The message we are constantly getting from Prime Minister Plenkovic and from his statements and reaction is that the topic of reconstruction is actually getting on his nerves. If we really wanted to get things going again, we'd have to work things out differently. Minister Paladin had been able to analyse what was wrong for two months at the time, see critical points, give solutions and deadlines for these critical points. He acts like it's his job to say what's wrong with him instead of offering a solution, it doesn't work. If the critical point is administration, then someone organizes processes so that they work. Let him change them. But it wasn't his intention, What the Minister of Paladin was interested in was state property. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107796	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107797	Thank you. My colleague Mrak Taritas, you said that Ivan Paladin is interested in property, it seems to me that the most controversial moment is that for a real-estate minister who should take care of the entire state property is a chosen person who in his former or former professional career has shown that the only thing he knows how to do is to acquire his own wealth, his own property at the expense of a business entity, a company, a legal entity, whatever interests you want, and also the property he was obliged to take care of. So it's a man who sees the position as an opportunity, an opportunity for himself, an opportunity for his wealth, not a commitment and responsibility to what he should do in some position. This is the bottom Croatia has not seen in its history before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107798	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash. There were no questions, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107799	Okay, thank you very much. So what to add or subtract, when Mr. Paladin became minister, it was evident that he was actually not interested in rebuilding, that there was one topic he was interested in was state property. I can somehow answer this finding of yours with one question, which we would all think together about a state that manages the state property that puts a person who, at a time when there are 10% shares or participation in a single project that is important to the state and is being sued. Imagine an investor who comes to such a country and says, "I have a minister who decides for me, and he keeps me 10% of the portfolios, obviously, I'm going to have to make a deal with him. It's an investor who thinks of such a state, thinks it's an agreed state and what Mr. Plenkovic's been doing with his acquisition, creating projects in the state with agreed projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107800	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Selak Raspoudic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107801	I will continue the renewed topic because it is certainly one of the biggest problems facing Croatia, perhaps the best mirror of HDZ authorities' practices. So, most often when we talk about HDZ we talk about in the context of corruption, and then you even have those voluntary interpretations that are wrong, but often in the people, let's go steal, but everybody steals anyway, but they at least know something and do something. However, this renewal that has never occurred is a clear example of the truth about HDZ's authority, which is the next truth, they are not only corrupt, but are primarily incompetent, and the consequence of their incompetence is corruption because it is the only way to advance and secure their functions. When you can't with your own abilities, then you have to and only you can do with corruption. When we talk about the new Minister Paladin, first of all, to get away from these potential or future affairs and to leave them to the competent authorities, we need to deal with what he called a plan to speed up the reconstruction process. So he became a minister, came to HS on the board of directors to tell us he's ready to take over. Many of the issues raised by the opposition, including my own, were in the direction of seeing what his qualifications were for doing the abovementioned work, so to hear what he had planned for the restoration. And the minister has openly admitted to us that he currently needs more time to get to know his sector, although time is the only thing people haven't had in two years because they've long since lost their patience because the reconstruction hasn't gone from a dead end. But let's be well-intentioned, the new man's time has come. A month later, somewhere after that, the minister comes out in the Croatian public with a plan to speed up the reconstruction, as two, we have already had and realized now we are going to speed up and hear some five points, we hear about how communication is crucial for good co-operation, how he will most advocate it and get the impression in the public that the minister knows what weak points are in the system and what it is about. Great, let's let the affairs go. Let's talk about his recovery plan. The opposition, or opposition members of the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, are moving to bring in the Ministers, come to praise what you have praised to the Croatian public, let's really talk about this plan of yours that you have so grandly presented. When the turnover, on the board of directors after a third of the opposition MPs, specifically all the opposition MPs addressed the proposal with the item on the agenda to speed up the reconstruction plan so that the minister would come and we could talk about what he had already presented to the Croatian public, eh, the president of the Board of Experts heard from the minister, not yet, it would take him another month. How do you need it in a month for the test you've already solved? How does it take you a month for the plan you've already shown? The thing is done, we call you to boast, we call you to realize your communication skills that you have established as the key to the recovery progress, to establish dialogue with the Assembly Committee. No, no, the minister needs another month. And what's the only conclusion that comes from all this? The recovery plan...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107802	Excuse me. My colleagues and colleagues, let my colleague Selak Raspadić speak, so let's not do that, please. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107803	The plan to restore the more accurate recovery plan as the marketing plan was called a plan to boast and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself to show us that he brought in a man who knows what he's doing and how he's going to change the system. There is no, there is no, Minister, the new Minister of Paladin is just a simple bluff. He told the public, and when he was due to come with that same plan, he had to present the truth, and it is true that he needed another month. Of course it's now, in a month it'll take him another month. There's so much about it. Will it happen and how that restoration will ever happen. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107804	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107805	I thank the chairman. So, my colleagues and colleagues have mentioned the renovation before, and today I'm going to use this space for a little bit of 10 minutes to talk about who's in charge of our reconstruction and who's headed for the ministry that has all the state property in the portfolio, so the newly-roasted Minister Paladin. In the story of Minister Paladini we have absolutely all the steps of real estate mixing from the HDZ privatisation manual for beginners, privatisation for dummies. There is also the first directorial position at the head of the building giant IGH, then the Russian investor, there is also the sucking up of IGH property through the sale of debts secured by IGH's properties, these debts and bonds secured by valuable properties are sold to comas, factor companies and demand agencies from which then Minister Paladin is now buying these claims for a small part of their value. So here, for example. My colleagues from HDZ to repeat for 27,000 euros buys a claim brought to him by 8 million kuna worth of real estate in Plamotic, meaning 150,000 kuna buys 8 million kuna worth of Palmotic property for them. The IGH, of course, is left without that property. Of course, then he can't buy it because he's the director of IGH so he buys how? As it says in the HDZ privatisation manual for beginners, buy through a lawyer, find a lawyer to buy over it. There is also an inescapable from the 1990s known to us as a partner contract, one of the concepts that enables different fraud and robbery of public companies or private companies that are also revealed to us by HDZ. So, the partner contract of the mother of all HDZ mutineers from the 1990s here Mr. Paladin has such a partner contract with Sergei Gljadelkin and this partner contract guarantees that these bonds secured by the property worth 30 million kuna, which is now the second package, buy, therefore, the ability to buy for 200,000 euros from the citizens of the very well-known Agency for the collection of claims from B2 Capital. Great. I've talked so many times here about EOS Matrix and about B2 Capital and all these claim-paying agencies that buy 10% of the value of our citizens' debts, and then whether these debts are out of date, they're not out of date, of course, charging 100% of the various methods. We talked, and we all agreed that the problem is because it's not regulated, I said that it's not just the fact that it's the citizens that are taking us, that the key problem of these agencies is that they're serving money laundering. And what does your minister's case prove to us? To serve money laundering. So, just over B2 Capital for 200,000 euros Paladin gets 50 valuable properties in Slavonski Brod and will receive the IGH building in Split. There is, of course, his share in the Kupari project, a share which he has failed to collect for two years, and then becomes the minister responsible for the concession for the Kupara which is the only real value of the company because the other values of the company do not have, so now, of course, he negotiates differently with the other co-owners of Kupar because now he is no longer one of the 10 percentage owners alone, but is the minister who keeps their concession in his portfolio. It's in the people, isn't it, a famous saying, which is why whoever's holding it here, we're not going to repeat it here. Now, if this isn't a brief history of HDZ's destruction of the Croatian economy for private real estate empires, I don't know what it is. So, from beginning to end. That's why I asked if you were sure Mr. Paladin wasn't your member because he's like a non-party minister. Because I'm surprised that he downloaded all this methodology developed since the '90s to perfection he developed it. The Ortac Treaty also shows that the Paladin for exit from partnership with Gljadelkin was not paid for the money but by the assets of the company it ran, i.e. the property of the IGH Institute. This, of course, also proves the list of his current assets. In fact, a man of the 60 million kuna value of the property he owns has rightly bought an apartment. All other properties he has in his large portfolio are IGH properties. When IGH was deprived of valuable real estate, by the way, but it was, like, collateral sacrifice, it destroyed the hydroelectric power plant. Hydroelectrics were taken away by different contracts between IGH and Hydroelectrics, all the machines that hydropower then had to rent from IGH and then were later surprised that the hydroelectric power had failed. And they literally left themselves with no basic means to work. And now watch out, we have a minister in charge of the construction sector, of state property and of the reconstruction he participated in, I won't say he's the only one responsible, but he was involved in the destruction of two of Croatia's largest construction companies, IGH and Hydropower. And not only that, but a man now needs to do reconstruction. With who? The construction sector, major companies in Croatia have been destroyed. Who's he gonna do the renovation with? Well, everything to speed up procedures, which we know won't because he doesn't have a time, he has to deal with these affairs, all to do, and we don't have a sector that can do it anymore. We don't even have a sector that can carry out our green transformation and everything we have to do in it to build. We don't have it because it was destroyed by this key and by this privatisation manual. But of course, that's not all, as in that famous commercial, there's more. So one of the very important things is that in all of this, Paladin, namely, led to a loss of at least 12 million kuna pension funds, means pensioners and admit that because of his bond malversions, they lost 12 million kunas, so our citizens, that's their money, and 7.9 million kunas were falsified by the NO Krško decommissioning fund, so the state fund. So he made it along the way and did it. I mean, if anything, people, we have to admit to the man, he's efficient. He's fast. So, the Investigations Index published last week, and this was confirmed by 3 pension funds, as well as the NK Krško Decommissioning Fund, which is precisely because of these decisions, the Minister of Paladin suffered a total loss of 20 million kuna. However, our pension funds do not find it appropriate to search for these 12.5 million kunas, although they know they can legally and admit that they can, but they will not, as long as the pension fund association is still reconsidered. So, Paladin in all of this, this series of investigative journalism has not been able to answer any journalist's inquiry, nor has he explained to the public that all of his assets of 60 million kuna except for that one apartment have managed to be extracted from the IGH. At the same time, it is being investigated by USKOK and DORH, however, it continues to have the support of Prime Minister Plenkovic. And now I repeat, the reason why we said there was no government reconstruction, the point on and it was the Paladin because he was going to go to you in a police car, I'm not sure about any other ministers whose resources are being investigated, from OLAF to others. But Paladin, Paladin must go, and for him is directly the prime minister. Directly prime minister because he chose him, defended him, and on my question how he managed to ask a person who had such a bunch of affairs from day one, he said he didn't have a magic wand to check out what kind of person he was working on, that Paladin told him he could justify everything and he believed him. So we have a minister who became the minister of mothers and we have a prime minister who really is Time... [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107806	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107807	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this speech that I had on behalf of the Club with my colleague Troscott, I touched this important topic that nobody really talked about, I see that today Franak also had a press conference, it is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has stabbed 55,000 citizens who had loans in francs, which they converted in 2015, and which, according to the EU court, the government has actually agreed that they will not be able to claim compensation for this change in the currency clause by signing that conversion. So it's embarrassing, it's high treason behavior. It's about 55,000 people, we can say of 55,000 families, and it's sad to say that no one today except the Bridge in HS is talking about this topic. We will therefore continue to warn this problem, this case is going to the Supreme Court and I hope that the Supreme Court in this case will bring a justice that goes in favour of our citizens, but unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia is actually acting like some kind of branch of banks in the Republic of Croatia, that you will laugh, you have a funny colleague, Deur, but 55 thousand people who had loans in francs are certainly not funny and some say that, in fact, this is a dirty deal between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the banks where the banks gave up the arbitration in Washington, and in return the government gave this opinion to the EU court and then EU Pilateski washed his hands, did not make a decision. So we will fight for all these people, for those 55,000 people to be compensated because neither the banks, nor the teleopers, nor all those you let behave in Croatia as they please, so they cannot behave in the countries where they come from, so we will be with our citizens and we will stand by them. And it's corruption, and it's corruption that we don't have proof that one of you got the money, but we know representatives of which interest groups have access to the government, we know what the connection is between Miss. Mišetic and the key people of Croatian Telekom, we also know about what the Croatian Telekom was doing, and what the Government of Croatia does or does not do about it, what Croatian courts do or do about it, what the state's attorney is doing or not doing about it, and all of it is your butter, all of it is your butter and you, you support and raise your hand every Friday for it. I'm convinced that when you went to war with those ideals you didn't go to war, but I don't know what happened to you in the meantime, I don't know what happened to you, as well as to many, I'd be happy to listen to this one to hear why such a change happened to you. And so also fellow Troscott talked about it, so there's no point in discussing those ministers who left this government for corruption anymore, there's no point in discussing Horvat who ended up in custody, but we're going to be very much discussing those who are sitting in the government today, and there's Minister Beros sitting in the government today, who is being charged with serious corruption and his ministry, but not only that, so these people are 2. and more terrorized us with these unnecessary and excessive measures to come here now that we are all sitting here next to each other and nothing, the coronaryvirus is still there, nothing has changed except our relationship with this virus and thank God and thank the Croatian citizens that they chose us in HS and our fellow sovereigns and others who had a colleague Skor, who had a reasonable relationship with this pandemic because who knows what you would do and what would happen might be similar to some countries, we could see what happened in Australia and New Zealand and Austria, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107808	We have several replicas, respected representative Selak Rasdic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107809	Dear counterpart Grmoja, HDZ is so concerned with people in debt slavery because of credit in Switzerland that during your speech, the chairman of Mr. Reiner of the ruling majority managed to conduct an entire phone conversation while the meeting of the HS he chaired. But I'm asking you something else, how can we be surprised at this when we say what they were most boasting about, which is a housing policy that was supposed to make it easier for our citizens to get to the first real estate, in fact, in favour of the same banks by making the first commitment to a minimum of 15 years, not giving God a shorter loan and then returning, and after that, of course, creating a disturbance on the real estate market, and now people are paying even more than they paid when the state didn't help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107810	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107811	Yes, I don't know what Vice President Reiner and who he called, he may have called the EU court to say that they don't agree here with the opinion of the government that played for the banks, and against Croatian citizens, it would have been nice if he had made such a call, but we won't get carried out, we know that they each Friday and Vice President Reiner and Deur and other colleagues raise their hands regardless of what decisions they were and how much they were against Croatian citizens. Now I'm going to say something unpopular, it's time to stop taxing this hard work in Croatia, and let's think about taxing property, to think about it, I didn't say to introduce it. Why? It happens to us that dirty money is laundered by investment in real estate, real estate prices are growing, so the real estate market isn't active enough and it's almost impossible for our young families to resolve the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107812	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107813	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy, about my patriotism, I've shown it all when I was supposed to, so you and your herd from the Bridge can't supplement me or ask me. The other thing is, you showed on the show with Mr. Representative Capulco who you are and your credibility and your morality. The third thing, when you were in the Bridge of the old one that you half threw out and they ran away from you, and the ministers you chose with Orepić and others you showed that choice of yours and thank God that the Croatian people will not give you the opportunity to destroy the list of properties, go ahead and I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107814	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107815	Thank you. So this one I see upset you with this question of mine, otherwise you wouldn't be using who the hard words are and calling the MOST herd, but good if this is it, it's your choice free. And when we talk about my colleague Kapulica, my colleague Kapulica did not meet our agreement, my colleague Kapulica hid somewhere the same thing as his godfather Puklin kept 4 million kuna Dragan Kovacevic in his garage, and a leg of the Janaf affair revealed that the same Puklin was sending the Capulaica messages in which that Fadljević said that I brought you to lunch and we set him up in the office in Croatia lottery. Do you know a colleague of Deur who was doing Fadljević there? He was director of logistics setting up the businesses of Flexbit, which is owned by Kapulika's godmother Puklin and Fadljević himself. So don't talk about it, it won't go well. You'll pass as barefoot on the thorn If you wake up... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107816	Thank you very much. Comrade Deur, I'm just distracting you that you've already got two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107817	That's my colleague Grumoja I can't stay quiet. Article 238, Your Honor, all you know is that you have the opportunity to know the institutions, report whoever it is, there's no problem. It's your business and your duty as a citizen not only as a representative. That's the first thing. The other thing, I was just expressing what you said and you bet what Mr. Capula said in the assembly, that you lost the credibility of the MPs. You come here to accuse and insult each other. You know it's not pleasant to tell the truth about someone. You've been persistent for years, that's your main statement. Lies and insults and simple, and you yourself know when Prime Minister Plenkovic ran there like a rabbit per assembly. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107818	This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I need to give you a reminder under Article 240(2) by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107819	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear comrade Grmoya, of course, you're right when you say it is, that we can suspect some combination with the banks they pulled, that in the end and the State's Attorney's office found we had a chance to read it, slowly before, in Washington weighs $4.5-5 billion, so when anyone heard the banks swear to give up. We get warnings for 0.35 lipa Zagrebačka banka sending, and now we would give up 4.5-5 billion possible. We need to investigate, see how Alexic does it. And what worries me more at the end now, do you have any information why we tried 200 doses of vaccines for the Croats to order and then Capak's deputy lady said she made 127 doses, for which they ordered it, and where it stands. Do you have any knowledge, you've been informed of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107820	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107821	Well, unfortunately, I don't have any knowledge, but it definitely needs to be stopped because it doesn't make any sense. So the person who was vaccinated and the person who was going to vaccinate was vaccinated. I don't think the citizens will go into those extra booster doses. We're now looking at 60% of the hospitalized data has been vaccinated. So, so whoever is at an older age, who is in danger of this one, and if he decides to vaccinate, but for children, what the President of the European Commission is now announcing again, certainly won't, will not vaccinate us, nor will we allow it. And as for the colleagues of Deura and Capula, let him take a look at it, I call back HDZ's men that Capula and I bet, and they'll see that Capula didn't keep his promise. And if you're interested in a little more Janaf affair, I'd be happy to share the details with you, it's not very pleasant for a fellow Hood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107822	On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Zeljko Pavić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107823	I thank the chairman. I'm going to try to do a little bit of cross-section to hear and see why we've actually launched these two proposals. If we start from last year, the end of last year when we were making a budget, we said the budget wasn't good, that too little funds were being reserved for the Ministry of Health. What happened? Everyone claimed from the ruling majority that's fine, that's determined, it's been three months of the new year and in healthcare we have minus 5 billion kuna. So it was a bad assessment. The government misjudged, the government proposed a bad budget. If we're talking about the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, we had here a few weeks ago on the table of social welfare laws. Unfortunately, most of them accepted it, voted for it, today the law is not enforceable, and most of the social care offices have problems because they simply don't know how to pay off the funds. Furthermore, we can talk about the Ministry of Defense here for days. We have a minister who presented his position as soon as the drone landed in Zagreb that upsets all our citizens. Afterwards, he claimed there was a 120-pound bomb inside, and then, overnight, there were 80 kilos of explosives missing, and he claimed that there were 40 kilos of explosives inside. Well, now those who were in the army who knew what a 25-pound knight or dynamite was, here's the general and the other generals know what a five-pound explosive would do there, not 40-pound explosives. So we have one man who's not competent, unfortunately. It tells things that don't stand. He doesn't need to know, but he shouldn't and should not disturb the public with the wrong and wrong information. Shall we talk about the Ministry of Science and Education? It's been a few months since the budget was passed, and they came here with a proposal to take a new loan from the World Bank. Of course, it's being delayed, it's not going to be brought back by this government. He'll be paid by another government in another term. Grace period, if I'm not mistaken, it's been six years. Furthermore, to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. We talked here several times about the problems that happened there, when I asked the minister what about those 39 million kunas that were spent on information, and the results were gone, the fact is that it wasn't her fault but the minister before that, she told me about the beds. How many new beds are installed and how many new beds are paid to come to Croatia. I didn't ask her that. I asked her where the money was. Why was the money spent on what was not to be spent? Shall we mention the Ministry of Agriculture? 30, or sorry, were spent on the Slavonia project at the time the minister submitted a report, over 20 billion kuna. At the same time, with the spending of 20 billion kunas from Slavonia, 40,000 inhabitants were evicted. So who did we give that money to? Who spent that money? What did he spend it for? When I asked the minister where the people were, she said we had more sheep. Literally, you can check on the video. That was her answer. Do we want to go to the Health Department? I already mentioned, we have currently minus 5 billion for drugs only. We have a problem with the treatment of our people, people are waiting a year to get a checkup. The problems are getting bigger and bigger. We also hear about some of the malfeasances that are happening, alleged malfeasances, I can't say, I can't say, I haven't seen, for some alleged malversions when buying equipment. That's a big problem. That's because the ministers aren't good at this government, because the government isn't good, because we all see it, not that we feel it or we assume it, but we and 68% of the population in the Crodemoscope polls, see that the country is going in the wrong direction, that's why we asked for this initiative to be launched, and that's why we gave the signatures, to try to change it, to go to elections, and to make it work differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107824	Thank you. We have replicas, respected representative Maric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107825	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here, you've cut off everything we have against individual ministers or ministries. When a man prepares a little for this debate today, but also some of the previous discussions, he actually sees how much he has. So the most, normally, I know the health care system and I know a lot about it, but this is all we've heard and what we're reading from other ministries is really worrying. That's a lot. I know that colleagues from this side of the assembly are certain that this point of ours will not pass, however, and they should be concerned too. I'd be blushing if I were, like, a member of the ruling option, and every once in a while, having affairs out of certain ministries. So now we have witnessed the shift of the 3rd Minister, do you, forcibly, think that this is all we are saying and what it is our duty to warn, just as the media do, will it still encourage Minister Plenkovic to consider whether his government can go on like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107826	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107827	First of all, let me warn you, I was just trying to draw attention to the most important things, not everything. Today, this whole day will not be enough for us to list all those affairs that relate to this government and these ministers that remain in the government. We know for the new ministers, she just had a colleague's debate, so she listed one part that's attached to the new minister. Unfortunately, I don't understand how such a minister can come at all in short notice. A man with so many affairs, with so many problems to get into a narrow choice and to be presented here by the prime minister without a problem, that's really weird. In one of my discussions, I told the prime minister that no one can challenge his knowledge of foreign policy, his internal policy, but his human policy is a disaster and he should find a new, new person to choose people because this can't go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107828	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107829	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Pavić. So that's where you mentioned and referred to our Minister of Health and the topic of wholesalerry. I can only compare it with one movie that I like to refer to often, which is when a monkey lifts a stone, under a stone sees a snake and faints. And all right, he fell for the first time, but when he wakes up unconscious, he raises the stone again, sees that snake again and falls unconscious again. We've had this topic of wholesaler, we'll have a second and a third time. And you know why? Because someone doesn't do their job. 'Cause if someone was doing their job, we wouldn't be arguing about the biggies at one point. So it's easy to say and drill into your chest and talk about reforms. Reforms are sleeping out there somewhere in someone's, in some impasses of someone's reality. The health reform was first the prime minister's fault, because, well, he delivered it, and it wasn't. Do you even see the possibility of any reform in this government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107830	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107831	It's really hard to answer this question. In fact, if we remind ourselves that the prime minister had a health reform table about a year ago according to the minister, it is obvious that the prime minister is slowly reading and making very slow decisions. If that reform was on the table, if it was good, I don't know why it hasn't started yet. We will have, and again, we will now settle all these debts if we want to have medicines for our fellow citizens, if we want hospitals to work for us, if we want the ambulances to work, we will give money from the budget, or we will take credit, we will probably take credit for doing so and making a budget that what needs to be financed by party colleagues who are somewhere to get money for their local, local self-government units, it will be spent, and for what we have to do for our population, we will take credit. However, if we want the prime minister to do something, we need to run these initiatives maybe two and five and seven times, to finally get to his ears. And not just to his rather than to those who bring [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Human policy in the government. [[Intruder: Honored Representative Shashin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107832	Insect: Honorable Representative Shaslin./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107833	Dear colleague Pavic, dear Vice President. Well, I had to react, and indeed, when you mentioned the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. You said 20 billion, and yet 40 thousand people moved out. Tell me, how many people do you think would have moved out if that 20 billion hadn't been invested? You are aware of the situation in Slavnia and Baranja in 2000 and after the Homeland War, etc. How much more famous and Baranja is behind the rest of Croatia. Are you aware of what strategic projects these are, from the highway, from the reconstruction of railway lines, from different centres, of 400 new kindergartens are open there. Are you aware that if there were no project that would be happening in Slavonia and Baranja, what would a demographic image look like there today? If you're public, tell the public that you're against this project more famously and Baranja, then say it publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107834	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107835	Your Honor. Don't mix pears and apples, I was talking about farm incentives. So what you're talking about here is highways, roads, kindergartens, that's got nothing to do with it. It has to do with the 20 billion spent, but they're given to the wrong people. So 20 billion kunas are divided into people in Slavonia, and yet the people of Slavonia have moved out. They got highways, but they moved out. They got roads, but they moved out, they got kindergartens, but they moved out. Where's he stopped? Which part? Look what it looks like to you. A little card and you'll see how wrong you are and don't defend what's indefensible. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Here she is, said the minister here alone for this pay phone said, we gave 20 billion, but still people left because money was divided into the wrong people by the wrong criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107836	Thank you very much. Here, we've got a little bit of a mistake. Please, follow what's going on, don't let it happen to you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Mrak-Taritaš, and afterwards, the respected representative of Oreković, please. First respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107837	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ governments this country had a lot and too much, although they all have one thing in common since 1990 to this day, it is that they have been having an affair after each other. The suspicions of corruption, court proceedings to ministers, and even to the prime minister, the inadequacy and the rightful verdicts from peeling potatoes to prison sentences, these are HDZ governments, these are HDZ ministers and even one prime minister. Andrej Plenkovic came with a promise, and here in the Parliament he said he would transform HDZ. Instead of transforming him, he was able to achieve a new record, surpassing all his predecessors. Namely, to this current government of his, it has never happened that one minister in the ministry directly replaces the Remitin. Minister Horvat, there it is, and he did it. However, even these affairs, even these suspicious affairs of judicially proven abuse, are not what the main problem is. The main problem is they're incompetent. This government is in no condition for any serious work that has taken place or done as it belongs or to be completed. That's the main problem, and that's why this government and this majority should leave. We need a new mix of cards, new elections and a chance for citizens to decide whether or not such policies suit them, such ministers and most or not. I recently requested a thematic meeting of the Committee on Economy with the topic of energy supplies. The materials and information we received seemed pink. We have everything, we stand better than most EU countries, the LNG term on Krk is a magic wand that will disappear all our problems as a bubble of soap. And then a European network of transmission system operators for gas publishes a report in which we are among the worst in the EU, which predicts that in the event of a gas shortage, we will not fill more than 30% of our warehouses by winter. And the member of that network that gave that information is our company Plinacro, a state-owned company. And then what's the truth? What does the government or the roof organization at Union level assure us of? We don't know, but that's the problem. The Ministry of Economy sent no unusual statement saying that the data in the report from before the LNG terminal, and this report also mentions the LNG terminal in as many as 5 places. So the reaction is unconvincing and unsettling, and most worrying. We still have no idea what our readiness to face the consequences of war in Ukraine and sanctions Russia. Are we going to have gas in the fall or winter, we don't know, will we fill the warehouses in time, if it takes them 3 months to fill up to 90% of their capacity? We have no idea. Do we trust the government to start preparations in time and in the right way? Of course we don't. What our willingness to deal with the consequences of the crown was like, unfortunately, we saw. Among the most dead and least vaccinated in the world, communication 0, strategy 0, results 0. Minister Beroš, for that time, while people were dying the most, and at least the vaccines managed to lower as small as possible, the larger affairs with millions of kunas he doesn't know why they were actually paid for, but he knows who. The minister's friend. Millions for an application that didn't work, millions for a company whose employees managed to do 112 hours a day. But maybe I should go back to Minister Horvat from the beginning of this story. The man who led the greatest shame, not these, but all the governments in the history of this country, the restoration after the earthquake, after he got out of custody probably slams his head against the wall and wonders God who they replaced me with, and he's probably right if any replacement in HDZ's governments is even worse than the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107838	On behalf of the promoter, he will now, on behalf of the club, continue the respected representative Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107839	Dearly beloved, nothing new will be heard by our citizens in this debate about the HDZ government which they had not heard before and knew. Everything that is dirty and corrupt has long been published by the media. Although it is not a bad thing to do all this again, it is undeniable that this will not cause HDZ's authority to fall, HDZ or ratings will not be more seriously threatened, however, in the same way that HDZ's parliamentary majority rather than respecting its constitutional obligation to oversee and control it. Likewise, HDZ voters feel that they do not mind and do not harm all this devastation that took place under HDZ rule. In the past 30 years, HDZ has turned Croatia into its own community, and it uses the government as an opportunity for prey, for the kidnapping of everything that does not belong to them. I therefore believe that since this is nothing new, this should not be a debate on ministers, nor on this corrupt relationship between such authorities and their voters, this should be a debate on the work of the Croatian Parliament, its role and purpose. And if we want to explain to voters why this congregation needs to be dissolved, then we should also tell them what makes the next congregation different and better. So, not to those HDZ voters who have already lost hope of fighting with us for better power whenever there is an election. And the HDZs just on the way to say that this initiative will not fall because it is our opposition, but it is the right opposition voices little bit, but because they are those, those who keep this power alive by guarding their parliamentary chairs, the privileges of the parliamentary mandate, and their electoral body and their electoral base are their jobs, their business relations, their system of clientism, nepotism and relationships. Such is Croatia under HDZ rule from day one to day. And I'm going back to the question why does this congregation have to disband? Well, because he lost his basic constitutional role. He was humiliated in his constitutional role, and Croatian citizens were also humiliated along with the Croatian Assembly. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia puts the Croatian Parliament first as a representative body of citizens, as the holder of the legislative authority, as a body that oversees and elects the Croatian government. None of this is in the work of the Croatian Parliament anymore. In this hall next to us, it is the hall of Ante Starčevića there is a large picture, it is called the Bringing of the First Croatian Constitution on 22 December '90. A year. In this picture, the meeting room is full, and if one solemn moment is painted on it, which is still different from the usual discussion, the picture shows everything that the Croatian Parliament today is not. The parliament simply stopped being the place where the main political debates were held, the place where the most important political decisions were made. And what, then, is some kind of guarantee that we can offer the opposition that the next assembly will be different and better? Well, the first thing we should promise is that we're not gonna put people on the list who don't have their own self, who aren't able to tell their party boss or minister that it's just a ball. The second thing we can promise is that we will change the Rules of Procedure and the rules of procedure. That we will give a greater role in legislative interventions to the parent councils, but that there will be no 30 unnecessary ones as they are now, but that there will be the number of resolution ministries, so that each parent committee will monitor and control its minister. This unnecessarily unnecessary number of constituency committees with imaginary names serves only to give one of the MPs another additional constituency chair and some pay raises and a certain satisfaction and some false picture of themselves and the importance they don't actually have. We can also commit that the assembly will have greater initiatives and that it will oblige the government to respect the conclusions and instructions of the assembly, otherwise it will be removed. The parliament must become a place of competence because the incompetent assembly is also politically impotent and the only thing in such a assembly is no matter who sits on this chair behind me because the main criterion of entanglement is that the wrinkle is compared to the power of the party boss. Such a Croatian Parliament does not need our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107840	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, a respected representative, Ivanovic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107841	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Oreshkovic injured Article 238, her pathological hatred for HDZ is a scientific and medical problem. I'm not a doctor, so I can't help her, but she'll have to explain to the voters first which party she belongs to and the other one will have to explain to voters when Kovacevic got out of prison why he first mentioned her name as kneeling and begged him to cooperate with her. When she explains it, I believe voters will be able to approve it and verify it in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107842	It is, of course, the political party who is not legally convicted of a corrupt crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107843	Of course it wasn't, colleague, colleague Oreshkovic, please! I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107844	I didn't even ask you for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107845	All right, you're getting a warning too, and, of course, my colleague Ivanovic gets a warning. The Honorable Representative Shashin has a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107846	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. In 238, colleague Oreskovic practically insults all members of HDZ and myself personally, especially us who have been members since '89-'90. When we entered the party because all we cared about was what was in front of HA was HDZ, and the vast majority of you who are sitting there have actually changed a few parties in all these years, I honestly don't even know which party you're currently in, you watched when you were only going in how you're going to take your personal interests... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107847	Okay, colleague, colleague, colleague Shashin this one wasn't the same, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Let's stop with the wrong violations of the Rules of Procedure, please. You're pulling, thank you. [[I'll pull, I'll pull, I'll pull, I'll pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna ……]] This esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash is pulling the same back, thank you very much. This one will now speak on behalf of the motionary, honourable representative Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107848	Thank you. I hope I don't get a diagnosis of some incurable hatred for the HDZ that started sharing here, and here I am going to start, I will go specifically with the minister, by the minister, the first one I'm going to touch is Minister Bozinovic. So a month ago, the European Court of Human Rights of the Republic of Croatia found guilty of the death of a girl named Madina Hussiny, a girl who was barely 6 years old. and which Croatian police illegally expelled in the middle of the night through the railway along with the family in Serbia, did not even allow them to seek asylum. I repeat, the European Court of Human Rights has made a decision saying that it is about the fact that the Republic of Croatia has violated the right to the life of a 6-year-old girl. I think you're very concerned, we can also see from the statement made by Minister Beros for unborn children, so let me remind you, this was a living six-year-old born child. Okay. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights condemned the Republic of Croatia because it systematically, systematically and organisedly covered up the crime because they deleted evidence, videos, etc., because it called on activists to talk to the police where they were being intimidated, it condemned her because her brave lawyer Sanja Jelavic Bezbradica, also the Croatian police were threatening and trying to install false evidence, convicted her because the Croatian state had cut off 60 thousand kunas for helping the families of Madina Hussein. The European Court of Human Rights has condemned all this by the Republic of Croatia. But the condemnation of the Republic of Croatia in this case is, above all, the condemnation of the police, which was led and led by Minister Davor Bozinovic, a minister who did not apologize to anyone, who did not stand before us who are citizens of this country who were convicted of taking the right to live a 6-year-old girl. No, it's the minister who even complained about the verdict, so they told him again that we were guilty because it's not weird because that Minister Bozinovic could offer an apology and show his condolences in this situation that would mean that he would have to believe that the police did not act properly, and we know that this is not the case because other migrants are being expelled by the Croatian police besides little Madonna. In 2018, a UNHCR report warned that Croatian police were systematically pushing, beating and robbing migrants at their borders. In the first half of the year, about 2,500 of them were rejected by 700 live births. If you don't believe the UNHCR report, you must believe your own eyes. We all watched, not just us, he watched the whole world of footage of Croatian police officers in Croatian uniforms beating up migrants and hunting them with pendejos in the woods. What does that tell us? So this tells us specifically that Madina was not an incident, Madina's death is the result of policy implementation, and politics has not been brought by individual police officers, politics has been brought by the government's competent ministry that has to go. Politicu was brought by a minister with a name and name named Davor Bozinovic. So the European Court of Human Rights ruling goes to the address of the government, goes to the address of the MUP and goes to the address of Davor Bozinovic, the address of the minister goes to the fact that the Croatian state in which the government believes it has the right to trample on human lives, that it has the right, and even the duty to trample on human dignity. If it's not for the Minister's resignation, I really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107849	We have a replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107850	Thank you. My colleague Kekin, we have therefore followed the case of little Madonna from, from this tragic event to finally this resolution at the European Court of Human Rights. What is the fact is that, apart from Minister Bozinović and the police who were covering up and in fact made it impossible to investigate what is now, what is now confirmed here has indeed undermined the entire Croatian judiciary of DORH, the constitutional court, etc., so here I see the responsibility of Minister Bozinovic, but also other ministers in the government, and especially Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has been lurking at all times, and they knew, and how did they know? They knew not only about the incident, they knew about all other incidents reported by the EU's most prominent public television, EU member states and outsiders, for example. Switzerland, so how come not once did Prime Minister Plenkovic condemn such a practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107851	Thank you. Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107852	Thank you for the replica of my colleague Bencic. So I think I agree with you not only that the public houses were reporting television, but they were also reporting the most significant societies like UNHCR, and they were clearly talking and talking about it now. I think the reason why Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Bozinovic are unable to stand before Croatian citizens and all others and apologize for the incidents is that these are not incidents for them, but that they are systematic and systematic implementation of a violent policy of deterrence at Croatian borders. I think that's the plan. I think it's a strategy. And I think, of course, it's scandalous that it's a violation of basic human rights directed by the state government. And yes, I think that, with all these other reasons that we have cited and that we will also point out because we see that human rights are being violated daily in Croatia, too, the reason that this government finally goes away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107853	On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107854	Speaking of refugees, it is interesting to see the hypocrisy of the ruling majority, which declaredly takes great care of the rights and position of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia. However, when the Parliamentary Committee on Gender Equality decided to put on the agenda precisely because of the extremely large number of female Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia and underage children representing more than 85% of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia, calling on all relevant institutions to be seen about the acceptance, needs and problems of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia, which makes HDZ so concerned about the acceptance of Ukrainian refugees, because we know that Ukraine's main political forte of the current prime minister, the Ukrainian community, NGOs and all other relevant institutions, which makes HDZ so much concerned with the acceptance of Ukrainian refugees, because we know that Ukraine's main political forte of the current prime minister, who has been waving with it as some kind of own flag that doesn't serve to take care of the difficult situation in which these people have found themselves, rather than to dehumanise themselves and dehuminate themselves, has generally called them political purposes. So what did they do when this debate that was long and seriously prepared came to the agenda of the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality? Now, at that moment, the prime minister remembered, and for that is the responsibility of this assembly, more specifically, those who are currently chairing him, that he must change three ministers overnight. He couldn't for weeks, he couldn't for months, and then he had to do it in five minutes, that famous simultaneous. So what did he do? He put it, of course, at the time of the Assembly Committee. So that only three members of the Committee on Gender Equality, including myself, could attend the Assembly Committee, because the rest were scattered on the committees that had to question, specifically from the HDZ, to defend the new ministers. Therefore, the de facto debate on the acceptance and needs of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia with all relevant institutions has been sabotaged by HDZ because the topic is second-rate in relation to the HDZ Simultaneous, which wanted to cover up the shame of changing three ministers as soon as possible because of potential corruption affairs. Some of them, more specifically the vice-presidents of the government, were later served in the Croatian Parliament because they are not good enough for the government to investigate them, but they are good enough of course for the Croatian Parliament because there are obviously no criteria for which someone in the Croatian Parliament should or should not be. So if you're doing that in those issues that you send a picture to the public that matters to you, what you're doing in all those situations where you're not even trying to make your image look better than it is. Here, on a concrete example here, I can say that in what way this committee has had the opportunity and should point to the acceptance of needs and problems, mostly the problems for the first time systematically at the level of the institutions in the Croatian Parliament that the HDZ Simultaneous entire debate has fallen into the second plan or almost disappeared from the plan and that this session at the level of sensitization of the public can be said to have failed. There, it is your contribution to the acceptance, needs and awareness of the problems of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia. So you guys keep waving that flag off the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107855	We have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107856	I won't stick to the stories of Ukraine, I think we've all said everything together by voting for a declaration that passed here almost unanimously with one abstention and there are both ruling and opposition being completely clear. What fascinates me with this ruling majority that I repeat will be once again formed by the electoral minority together with the representatives of minorities is this paradoxical combination of extreme stability because there is no thing that will happen without them being able to swallow with their stomachs and cheeks, and on the other hand, the most fragile because we do not know from, not from week to week, but from day to day which of the ministers will remain on the tree and which leaf will fly away. Well, less than three months ago, we heard a sentence from the Prime Minister from here, and you can plant your eyelashes, remember, I'm not taking off any of the ministers, so three of them are gone for different reasons. One because of fatigue, the other because it doesn't harm the government's reputation, and for the council it's okay, the third for the same reason. How long? I'm afraid this leads to a devastation... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107857	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107858	A new function of the interim minister has now been invented, and as the pool of potential HDZ ministers has fallen significantly at an incredible rate, we may soon have an institution-a-minister from the opposition ranks, so people will be borrowed because there is no one currently to occupy a key place in the government since they do not find enough people in their ranks. What worries most about it is the collapse of any criteria for becoming a minister. We have already discussed in the debates on behalf of the club that everyone in Croatia may become a minister for 15 minutes, it is no longer clear to anyone, and when we saw how much Minister Paladin was sent with the recovery itself and who refused to do anything before him whether there is one criterion that is of professional nature, and to take up such an important function in the country, therefore first incompetence, and only then corruption is the underlying problems of this current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107859	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107860	Thank you very much, Vice President. On December 15th, he remained involved with his colleague, Grmoji, and he said the anthological words "we did this very badly, we turned everything against ourselves". I'm giving you a chance, now you've got a microphone on, to admit that you've done this very badly, that you've turned everything against yourself, and we'll forgive you, so let's slowly separate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107861	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107862	It's funny, really, that the microphone was on, so you could hear my answer, and that was that we didn't do anything wrong, that this was all pre-directed. It is interesting that on a concrete debate in the lack of arguments about an important topic that you would like to have an opinion, which has been sabotaged, which is where the problems are encountered by Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia, you are returning to some kind of turned-on or off microphones to potentially incriminate us as persons here. Once again you confirm how much you really care about the real problems involved in the opposition and about which the opposition is speaking, and how important it is for you to deal with persons in opposition without focus on content because you cannot mate in content, which is not what I regret, but whose consequences are the citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107863	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107864	Thank you. Here is the sad thing when a colleague Ivanovic in a debate in which he is trying to pair us from Club Mosta lists as an example of something where the Bridge has succeeded, so I was worried that we were attacked by all and the meaning of the left and ruling who were against our referendum, yet we managed to collect a sufficient number of signatures. You then well concluded that it was not us who were responsible for these attacks, but that these attacks were most likely agreed, but in the end here it turned out good for Croatian citizens and for us a sufficient number of signatures was collected. Do you think this is a delay with actually a referendum where citizens long ago mean that it was, we ended up in January and handed over the signatures whether this delay is also a reason for disbanding this government's parliament and falling?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107865	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107866	If someone asked me to bet on the most likely scenario why they're currently stalling with those results, we could say so by considering the constitutional court on our referendum issues, I'd say the scenario is next. The Constitutional Court said, and look, we understand what you want from HDZ, you'd like to bring down both questions, but here we really can't, we can't both, we may succeed one, but we both can't, and if you kill us we won't survive as experts. The HDZ, of course, asked to bring down both questions, and then when they said e, but away from this it's not going, then they said sorry, sorry didn't say sorry, they'd rather threaten, it's not a good political moment, so at least delay that decision, we'll find a more favourable time out there when nothing else is going on in the summer when everyone's on vacation to get this under the grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107867	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107868	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, our Parliamentary Committee on Equality of the Committee often coincides with other sessions or other committees. There is often no quorum on our board when there are no other committees, so when there are no sittings, and most often the quorum is held by members of the HDZ. As far as the opposition is concerned, she's the one who's most often working on our board and sabotaged you. And when you spoke of the three members who were present on the committee with you, I think it is correct to say that there were two members of the HDZ, so the two of us from the HDZ and you as chairman, while I was looking at the members and members of our committee and the other committees that were sitting and I think it was time for the members of the opposition parties to join us on this really important topic, the thematic session of our Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107869	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107870	To be precise, there was no quorum since the 20th session held on the board. However, what you were saying, what you were referring to, my criticism is not addressed to you, and I am glad that you and the vice president were there, but is directed towards what you were referring to, and in one of the next discussions, I will refer to the work of the assembly and concrete proposals to improve it, not to say that the opposition is not constructive, to one who manages the way the entire work of the committee will go, and not to go parallel and how the schedule will take place, and that is the ruling majority, so I am not the problem which of the other committees, who of most MPs was on the committee itself, but why these people are both from opposition and from the ruling majority brought into the situation that I cannot attend the committee meetings because of so many parallel meetings of the other committees, because everything has been violently over the order, during the night, suffered in order to perform this symutate around the minister's shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107871	Dear representative and vice president of this house Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107872	One small contribution to this debate that has begun, one truly scandalous detail that I must share with you when we talk about the abuse of the assembly of parliamentary deputies. Two or three months ago, a meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy was held with a video link to a certain Plazonic, state secretary at the ministry. A health reform has been announced in the debate, which is what it is, he... It broadly says if you want to know what health system reform will look like, join the HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, one example really is the arrogant one, not only the arrogant one, but the politically obscenities of the highest legislative body in this country and the people who represent the people and the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107873	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107874	If you ask me, I'm going to make a separate commitment to this in the next debate because I continued here because my colleague Kekin opened the refugee issue, and I've been trying to keep some kind of thematic whole with this current issue of acceptance of Ukrainian refugees. If you're really asking me what's the biggest problem of this ruling structure, it's decoupling the dignity and even the work of the assembly. We had a serious problem with that, too. We are not the lowest-ranked institution in the country because it is determined that this must be done rather than because of various tricks, I will point out the specifics that make it impossible for us in our work to have such humiliating answers because we are not actually serving anything, where we are completely passive, which is why citizens rightly react to it as about what we need this at all. This then fails at all to be a constructive contribution to creation It's the law, it's the fight, and someone's responsible for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107875	Now, on behalf of the Fokus Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the respected representative, Damir Bajs, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107876	... Club Focus and independent representatives, I say actually a position related to the Proposal for a Decision on the Disband of the Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I must stress that we are one of the subsignors of this proposal and that there is a reason why we are behind it. First and foremost, it is clear that this is not about disbanding parliaments, but about changing the government of the Republic of Croatia and it is written in an explanation. The position that is now in power has been said two things so far. Most of them are stable, 76 or 78 votes about anything. Let's be optimistic coalition partners have said several times that in some situations they may not vote with the majority, whether it will be this we will see, but the other part that they argue should not go into this decision is that elections are expensive. The elections are never more expensive, and apparently that is what HDZ thinks because Minister Miletic, Piletic is actually the Mayor of Novska and Novska going to the new elections. And they don't have a problem with the price of it or anything else, so if it's not expensive for Novska to choose a new mayor safely for the Republic of Croatia to choose a new government. And when I talk about it, then I'll point out that we're talking about the government and we're talking about the prime minister. The prime minister of course chooses his associates. They say he may be the first among the equals, but not to the end, he chooses his associates. Over 25 ministers went through his government and left. In that picture that has been shown many times, there are only three or four ministers who have survived through all these governments. I must stress that it is most important and that is why we signed it in front of Focus are actually the government's results in view of such a long term. The Prime Minister said my greatest achievement was the Pelje Bridge, and I was facing great challenges. Well, the Peljek Bridge is not unnecessary, but let's hear a little bit about these challenges because the Croatian government is ruling. It is responsible for the situation in society, and these challenges were clearly said, pandemics and restorations, or earthquakes that hit Croatia. And when we talk about the results of the government, Croatia, then we can all... Underline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, when we talk about the pandemic of the Coronary, Croatia reportedly fought a great fight against the Coronal. This struggle was such that the measures changed from week to week, day to day, the approaches changed, the events changed, and our headquarters was extremely active. However, in this very Croatian Assembly, we received a report on the results of this struggle. Namely, on the day the Minister of Health explained the results of Croatia was the first in the world after a week coincidence with the coronal virus. Is that how we did it, then, if, which is the problem, perhaps in Croatian citizens, perhaps in health care, but perhaps in managing the problem that the prime minister himself has identified as what followed him through this mandate? And in particular now we're eight in the world by mortality. So now a man asks the question of what is the result of this struggle and these problems that have arisen before this government? The prime minister didn't boast of it, he just said the Peljeski bridge. The other thing is, of course, about the recovery and the earthquake that hit us. Should we say that we are not the first country to have a major disaster in the EU, that we are one of the many countries that have experienced this, but also that nothing is said much about this because it has been shown that Croatia is, after withdrawing the funds that have been granted to us and that the deadlines have been extended, in fact, at this moment, the last in EU history. This actually means that one Romanian, Poland, Germany or any other EU country that has been in the same situation has dealt with it in a short time. What does that mean for those who are in Banja? Those in the city of Zagreb or Zagreb County or perhaps Krapina-Zagorje County mean that the objects that should have been made are not, that they did not, that neither the conditions needed, and that the HNK could have been built in a year, and we cannot build one house in 2 years. Well, the prime minister wouldn't show himself about it. Now, we have one more thing. In 6 years hence, the previous government of Croatia was mostly, not entirely, but most of it was gone by 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Over 11%. What kind of citizens are they? Well, these are the ones that are working, people for families, and when you look at the demographic structure, they make up over 15% of the total of Croatian working people. And now we come before what, who will lead us to the greatest challenge? According to the EU and EU Commission report, it is clear that the economic crisis that is coming is not short-lived. It's supposed to take three or four years. The data that we had and that we presented, that we would have, for example, 7.5% of GDP increases and 2.5% of inflation, turned around. And this moment we, if we're lucky, will have 2.5% increase in GDP and at least 7% so inflation. As things stand, there will be even more inflation. What does that really mean? The media are saying that the average standard of Croatian citizens will decrease by 50% in those 3 years. It's a challenge. I won't be such a pessimist. However, the figures are clear. If the salary rises 4%, the economy stands in place and it lasts for 3 years, 3 times 10 is 300%, 10 percent goes pay growth, so for at least 1 fifth or 1 quarter each Croatian citizen will have a smaller, I would say, standard. That's what we need, we'll need to pay attention. Who's going to lead us in that, and it's not going to be one year, not two, but at least, the way things are now, four years. The government gave a plan of measures before Ukraine, before this new data. After that, however, nothing. We expect new measures and new activities. Only if what the governor of the National Bank of Croatia said is yes, which is a recommendation for inflation. Let's go shopping where it's cheaper. If it's a message from the CNB government, the state, then it's not a policy we can support, it's like we're talking about Alan Ford, not something else. And how we're gonna get those 400,000 people back if our standard falls that far. It can only be the other way around. It could be more people. Therefore, a review of the election, a new parliament, a new government that will respond to these challenges and a prime minister who will not say I had challenges, but does not want to say that he has solved them. That's what we want. And no, it's not expensive, for neither Novska nor for the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if that's gonna happen. This one would say, which I said is statistics and the reality of life. And no, we are not here to be the last in the EU for anything, and not now, as things are almost everything and therefore the elections are necessary, and that must precede, of course, what? H.S. Disengagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107877	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107878	Good afternoon, everyone. I come right from the verdict of Filip Draca, a young man who drew a sickle and hammer at the foot of the statue Franji Tudjman, and that is the first case that a first-degree sentence is obtained for graphics in Croatia, meaning the Criminal Court, meaning not a crime, but a prosecution for the man who drew the sickle and the hammer that was wiped out, practically by hand. It's political persecution. It's also one of the reasons why we need to change this government. And when we heard here in the morning a series of estimates that it was an incompetent government, that it was ministers who were incompetent, I would warn them that they were doing exactly what they were paid for. They're mercenaries who do what they do why they get a mandate. They're here to protect their own interests and interests of the groups that put them in that place and they do it very well, they're not incompetent, they're really focused on what they're assigned as a task. Well, Minister Horvat, who has been warned for years by the Workers' Front that one of the worst ministers, if we can hold that ladder, is that, in any case, a degree, he was really bad. When we warned that it was responsible for the destruction of the Uljaniks, when the oil workers prayed that 150 thousand kunas were given to them to end the yoke in Pula that would allow for further production, maintenance of production that would prevent bankruptcy and cancellation of thousands of people, then they said that there was no money, that it was a bottomless bag, even though it was, of course, a bottomless bag, that we understood and that the money was always going in the wrong pockets, they ended up in terms of shipyards and they didn't give the money, at that moment we find out, at that moment Minister Horvat with his associate was exchanging SMS messages and he was responding to one of your choices, thinking of companies that had just received such amounts, 200,000, 250,000 kuna, companies that did not know how much of our economy and how much more competitive our economy were getting through the connections. What I want to warn you is that apart from being people who are extremely capable and who are working for their own benefit, they are actually implementing government policy. And I would like that criticism of that government to focus not only on those reports that we are now commenting on here and the fact that it's about people who are actually under investigation right now because it's only because they're mercenaries who are put in place to destroy the last levers of our development and the possibilities of our development, and I would like to read the affirmative proposals of this government, not only to look at USKOK investigations, let's read the recovery plan and resilience that stands there, there says to improve corporate governance of state-owned enterprises under the State-owned project restructuring of state-owned companies. The objective is to sell shares, i.e. shares to companies that are not on the list of companies of particular interest, etc., etc. So we in the affirmative programs themselves have a corporateization of companies that are in the hands of the state, which may still have the opportunity to be some leverage of development. They destroyed the Orlyava that was a state-owned company, the Eagle produced excellent shirts and it could have been as it was for years, an excellent exporter, but we settled down on the lohn jobs of so-called. non-performing, non-branding, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-produced higher value because it was the government's decision. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107879	Dear Representative Glavasevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peović, on the trail of corporation, I'm actually terribly glad you brought this up because we've had a lot of debates about this affirmative as you say the documents. Recently, at a joint session of the entire board of this assembly, in which about the consequences of Russia's sanctions on our economy, a very closely seen gentleman close to the HDZ summit was deadly cold, saying that the focus on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship had thrown the EU economy on his knees and also advocated that corporations would be large enough to get the measures of this support the government is offering. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107881	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107882	Well, I'm not sure I understood correctly, but maybe it was a little time to explain what it was about, what I'm concerned about, the specific sanctions and those on that list so it would be a very good proposal that came from your club to actually follow the sanctions and who it is, in general, I mean, what the subjects are talking about. But on the other hand, we have ministers like Paladin who are working with these Russian tycoons by destroying our industry, that's the man responsible for destroying our industry. He acquired all his assets through the real estate of IGH, Elektroprivreda Niskogradnja he destroyed so that he brought in a Russian tycoon who promised workers to continue production if they gave up their claims. After the workers gave up their claims no more, almost, game over, took the machines and distributed the jobs to the workers. Such people in ours, our government with Russian capital has no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107883	The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107884	I'm calling in an article. 238th Honorable Vice President. A colleague calls the government and all of us for the Ulanik, and over 4 billion kunas are pretty banged up to save jobs. The new oil company now employs over 300, and up to 500 people are expected to negotiate new jobs, and this Ulnik is a healthy Ulnik unlike the one you were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107885	It's all nice and good, but it wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure, so I'll give you a heads-up. My colleague Pevovic, you are also looking for a breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107886	It's amazing to me, colleague Peric, that you are comparing the new Oily with the old Oily. A new Oilman who doesn't hire or a part of those workers who were hired by the old Oilman. And it's the money and the bag with no bottom, so that's your responsibility. So you're responsible for putting state money in the private pockets of the local tycoon for years, and then you're talking about the new Oilman who started the workers who fought the most for the Oilman in the Oil Station who don't have the number of workers who were before and went to Italy to work until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107887	Thank you very much. It was also a replica, so you get a reminder. Please get a warning, don't have two warnings, don't get a third one. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107888	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. If Croatia were to be a model country of Western liberal democracy on this point, we should neither make a statement nor we should launch a debate on Parliament's disbandment because such a debate would be completely unnecessary and only the disbanding of parliament would be formal, but deeply moral, both of the ruling and of the opposition. Unfortunately, Croatia is a country without political responsibility. Croatia is a state that supports the theft of public money, the state in which people have been sitting on serious charges recently, and one minister is even deprived of freedom, the first such case in modern Croatian history. In countries that hold to themselves, no government would survive such tectonic disorders and a colossal and system of abuse of public duties. But this country, with such an essentially corrupt government headed by the main protector of the corrupt-HDZ mentality of Andrej Plenkovic, has no intention of holding onto it. Corruption at the top of the government is not the only reason why we are today asking for the parliament to disband and for the decision on the mandate of representative democracy to return to the citizens. The reason is, colleagues and colleagues, and with this corruption and too much. The current ruling majority managed to create two parallel realities in Croatia. In one reality live they deprived of all political, social and human scruples, and in another, the realities live all those whom this government makes life harder and more unpleasant. With daily propaganda and spins, the government must find a way to convince citizens how they live better, that Croatia is one phenomenal place for life, just as the former minister of work has assured us recently. These spins are manifested in manipulations, in twisting the thesis, in half-truths that lack a complete picture and an unheard, unheard of need for Andrej Plenkovic to appear as the savior of both the state and the nation. But colleagues and colleagues are just like autocratic regimes. So what kind of Croatia is every day trying to show us HDZ? We are bombarded with reforms that are about to begin and how large the government's reform capacity is. No fundamental reform has been made in 6 years to catch Croatia up with advanced EU countries. The prime minister boasts that he is Croatia's longest-ever prime minister, but that is exactly why Croatia is not progressing. Reforms don't happen, and if they do, it's eye massage to the people, just like in the case of so-called. the reforms of the HGK or, for example, the introduction of those Croatian transparency. What about health care in the Republic of Croatia? HDZ and Willy Beros would say they're just blooming roses. They bloom to individuals who pay for millions of diaries, flowers that are transformed overnight into IT companies, companies that are twice as paid for by medical devices. And all that under Willy Berosh's stick, of course, our hero. The reality is, however, that there is nothing since the announced health reform. A year ago, Beros, you remember, sued Plenkovic about the reform in the drawer for local elections. He didn't even sound when Maric took 6 billion in his last year's budget for health care, and, behold, after our countless suggestions on how to cut debts, the debts to the large-scale drug system again threaten the hospital system. We remember last year that the prime minister was lying here about oncology patients not missing their medications, so the next day, these same cancer patients in the media denied it. The prime minister boasts that he has secured billions of European money and thus directly gives hope to people who are still living in containers, but that hope is drowsy every time they see their eyes as they do not move from the container and that the restoration is in a shameful waiting status and that is more than 2 years from the earthquake in Zagreb and a year and a half from the earthquake in Banja. And speaking of that renewal, the former minister ended up in prison, but the prime minister boasted that he had found an ideal expert in character today in the work of Minister Paladina. The source of personnel has always been the stronger side of Andrej Plenkovic, especially if we look at the score of torpedoed ministers from his government who, of course, were the choice of Andrej Plenkovic. In order to say propagandaists from the HDZ Facebook page who copy their friend's electoral slogans from the European People's Party of Aleksandr Vukic, people, look at the scoreboard. More than 17 ministers had to leave for the appointment of Plenkovic's anti-corruption radar. Instead of dealing with the reconstruction, Paladin explains its many tens of millions worth of non-risk assets, investments and work, according to the modern-day owner, but with partner contracts such as the HDZ since the 1990s. Being a mate, Paladini was obviously the strongest reference. The government boasts that it has raised salaries and saved jobs and has taken measures against inflation. The government can raise salaries to the public sector, that's true, but at the same time it hasn't made d of digitisation and optimization of jobs. In fact, the government does not raise salaries in the real sector, the market only works, but not because of government policy, but because of its own success in production and export. You saved jobs not from the government, but from taxpayers' money, which would be even more so if you weren't systematically destroying this country by stealing. The pay's up. So who are you cheating on? In the year.../incomprehensible... inflation that you laughed at in this House on September 15, 2021, not only did it eat wage growth and deepen poverty for the poor, but we don't even know how much longer it will grow. What about crime in public enterprises? In the Croatian forests and pay lawyers to the president of the Croatian Forests Administration, we already know everything about taxpayers' money. But on several occasions, I have spoken publicly about favouring HEP PPD, which I have both evidence and documentation and contracts. I also asked a parliamentary question because I discovered a huge affair, but Coric of course did not answer me for two months. Now the media has finally taken an interest in it. It is that HEP has set up a tender for the purchase of Russian gas in order to get a more expensive price for the PPD and has paid HEP for it in advance, so you publish the tender, get a lower price, then cancel the competition, to republish it, get a higher price, but this time PPD offers it. And not only that, a few days behind that, you pay PPD all off, and watch out for Russian gas. This story will still be discussed, and I personally call on the DORH to examine all the actions on another HDZ affair by Frane Barbaric, of course I am personally at the disposal of the DORH with complete documentation. You're promoting cooperation and solidarity with Ukraine, and you're paying off Russian gas, and I could go on like this. My colleagues and colleagues, this country is not being managed, this country is stychically destroying HDZ's rule, stealing and stealing, setting up and bribing public money. HDZ is destroying this country so that it can only be grabbed for itself and you HDZ gentlemen can do whatever you want, as your beloved leader says, but you can't as long as you want because the bubble of lies, manipulation and propaganda that you've blown up and sold to the citizens at the time will crack, or the DORH of new arrests or choices at which you'll touch the bottom and remember who's flying high down, your fall will be very painful, but for the citizens it will mean freedom from lies and corruption. It is simple that Croatian voters must free the country from HDZ's kleptomaniac nature, you have issued all principles, but all the principles on which one society rests, you have made it your own. Thanks to you, Croatia should start from the beginning because you have devastated the entire society, but you will not anymore, it is really enough, so it is important that this commercial majority of which are hiding and its coalition partners leave immediately to heal this society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107889	Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107890	Here they keep asking us, and what would you do, and in order for you to have nothing, you just complain and criticize. So now I'm going to talk a little bit about how we're going to, what we need to change and how to fix the most important body in the country, and that's exactly HS. As I have announced in the previous presentation, the biggest problem of our democracy is that HS and its work has been sabotaged to that extent that it has lost every confidence of the people of the Republic of Croatia so that we regularly get the worst score in the exams, but I don't think that this is the situation and I don't think that's necessarily what HS should look like. In fact, if someone else were to run this country in a different way he would arrange and the work of this assembly could finally be what his name is saying, and that is where Croatian citizens are represented in a constructive, articulated, democratic debate. And what's the problem here? Let's start with the chairman, the president of the assembly and the vice presidents of the ruling majority think that the incarnation of the Pharaohs with their respective powers and give themselves the right to document the parliamentary MPs and comment on their discussions instead of being what their duty is, and that's the first among the equals, and their job is a very simple, impartial Moderator here, and what we have here when you say something is given you a reminder or three in a row to get you out of that same debate whether you're right about what you said, what happened to me here a few hours ago, and I'm not the only one. Therefore, a person who is able to behave with dignity, to moderate the debate, rather than abuse his/her function in order to politically edit the content of what the parliamentary representatives are talking about. Secondly, I started this in the previous presentation, agreeing on a meeting schedule, so this simultaneous who sabotaged some important topics on other committees is one problem, but what is generally done with the way the schedules are drawn together, the fact that in the pre-election period the debate is knowingly diverged by less attractive topics, which is the abuse of the country's most important institutions for the purpose of its own election outcome. Then we are well aware that the opposition proposals are regularly included in the late nights in order for them to be discussed beyond the eyes of the general public and one specific problem that the schedule is illogical and unnatural, the laws are discussed before the reports necessary to understand the legal changes, the amendments to the Island Act a week before the report on the effects of the same law. Does our schedule really have to look like this, do we have to wait until the evening to find out what will be on the agenda and when the new minister will come to the parliamentary committee so that we hope that there will be as few parliamentary representatives present at the debate as possible or that there may be a ruling majority who will arrange the parliamentary schedule in a way that is sent in time to release key topics for Croatian society in a crucial time and to enable, and not sabotage, a parliamentary debate? If you're really so strong from the ruling majority that you're sending opposition proposals in small nights, let them go, so fight, you must have knowledge and arguments, what's the problem? It is not a problem that you recognize your own weakness that we know well, but that one image is created that HS does nothing and that is completely incorrect. What kind of laws are you sending? Legislative proposals are not normative or substantively arranged, so some of them do not provide basic information as to why legal amendments are needed, and some of them cannot be provided with a report to indicate whether legal changes are justified at all. And finally the committees, it's a broader question of forming a meeting that has more than parliamentary committees and bodies than the government of the ministries. And it suits everyone in the assembly because it's almost 100 presidential and vice-presidential chairs, secretaries, increased coefficients and so on. Each representative is a member of at least 3-4 working bodies, some or more. In this regard, there is no systematic or effective assembly work if the representatives run from the session of one committee to the session of the other committee just to get a quorum at all. There are no quality discussions on committees, the work is superficial and everything is fragmented. We know the consequences, but nobody takes it seriously. The second ruling majority would have arranged it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107891	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107892	We ask for the disbanding of this assembly not only to refresh the legitimacy of the highest representative body after all the affairs and all the dirt that has been happening in the last two years with the aim not only of some other people and other ratios, but also of doing otherwise. Parlo Parliament late Latin means talking, talking. It is our job in Parliament to speak, and the way the sessions are held in these two years and in which various business tricks are used we see that speech is well-limited here. It's the first thing that needs to be changed in the new assembly. To make this really a place, a place of speech. So, if in the new assembly we just get different people and other ratios between parties we've only done half the work, this assembly has to restore its dignity, and that will, among other things, achieve as a place of free speech and articulated speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107893	Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107894	I've been talking about this topic for a year and exactly a year ago I had my first parliamentary debate on how to improve the work of the assembly. Of course, however, there is no hearing for it. The aim is to raise awareness of the voting machine where only government decisions are confirmed. The consequences of this are disabling parliamentary debate, preventing the work of parliaments and losing citizens' confidence in institutions. Of course, the other ruling majority, who truly see democracy as a valuable asset of our time, and who is trying to realize in practice, would be able to edit this assembly in a completely different way. Imagine a meeting where you have high-quality bill proposals, in which you discuss at a normal time and which is modernized by someone who is not obsessed with sabotaging the same debate, and parallelly you have active committees who participate with their proposals in this same debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107895	The Republic also has a respected representative, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107896	... Here is Minister of Health Beroša, who violates the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore, according to the decision of the Croatian Court of Justice, forgive the Constitutional Court, violates the laws. [[Specially enabled.]] It's been 30 days since I asked him a representative question, why he spent 30 million kunas of our money, taxpayers buying Ronapreve, so the Americans gave up using this medicine because their CDC said it was ineffective and had too little effectiveness in treating him against Covid. After that, some time passed, our minister spilled 30 million kunas of our money. It's been 30 days, he didn't answer me. He's breaking the Rules of Procedure with it. According to the decision, the Constitutional Court is in violation of the laws. What kind of minister is that, and where is he hiding in which basement is he?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107897	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107898	Dear fellow Minister Miletic, I have already had a controversy with Minister Berose about answering parliamentary questions because he has been late for several months with answers. After which he, as I say, made a personal effort as if it were doing me a favor to start getting answers on time. And when I referred him to these answers in the next assembly debate because there were not enough concrete facts about the questions I asked, he insulted me that he tried to get an answer, and I should have sat down and said thank you. So the question that the minister gives you an answer on time is a matter of his goodwill and service to you, not of following the law which should be the case. The last question I asked, for example, was the minister of the economy, and it was about the storage of medical waste of people suffering from diabetes. And they said everything is by law while people who suffer from diabetes said exactly the opposite that they had nowhere to store their waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107899	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107900	Thank you. So maybe it's better this way. Yesterday I was preparing for this debate, my next minister is Minister Berosh, and there are really a number of reasons why he should go and I was ready to comment on them here. But what Minister Beros has done today is an unprecedented move. And if he had been the brightest minister so far, if he had carried out the reform, if he had revived the health care center, if he had split the citizens, if we had had had had a low mortality in the pandemic, then after today, Minister Beros would have had to leave anyway. In fact, Minister Beros today revealed to Croatian citizens in his statement to the media before the government that it was Minister Beros through a commission that he established changes the law. And that's what every medic knows, so so does Berosh, and I can and can only change through this assembly. But let's start from the beginning. So in his statement today, Minister Beros made it clear and unequivocally clear that the Commission in the case of Mirela Cavida, but also in all other cases requests for termination of pregnancy after 10 weeks, had to determine whether the status of the fruit was incompatible with life. Besides repeating it several times, providing medical records on the condition of Mirala Chawide, which I'm not sure is his Mrs. Chawida agreed, even threatening to ask himself, what if the patient had gone to Slovenia, if the condition of her fruit was compatible with life? What would happen, Minister Berosch, to whom exactly do you threaten? Do you threaten Mirela Chavaidi, threaten doctors who have sent her from Croatia to Slovenia or threaten Slovenian colleagues who, by the same law, approve of the termination of pregnancy, by the same law? The doctor also told all other citizens, Minister Beros, that abortion in Croatia can only be obtained if the life of the mother is at risk or if the state of the fruit is incompatible with life. However, Minister Beros disregards the fact that this Law, which he and his doctors sitting in the Committee, and all other gynecologists should observe, is, with these two conditions, abortion after the 10th week of pregnancy, quite acceptable in states where a child will be born with severe physical and mental defects and damages, which, in the opinion of all gynecologists who have seen Mirel Cavida, is exactly her case, but also, and the condition in which the pregnancy of a potentially healthy foetus occurred by committing a crime of rape, a promise of an powerless person, a promise of abuse of position, a promise of promise to a child or birth. So Minister Beros today has repeatedly claimed that women in Croatia do not have the right to what the law guarantees but to have the right to what the Beroshe Committee allows them to do. Well, you can't do that, Minister Beroshu! We can't have a commission that you or anyone else from your specific worldview establishing law-making. You and your committee can't add the conditions for termination of pregnancy. Your commission is not and will never be a Parliament. Only if you're planning to start some new headquarters, national, abortion headquarters, for the wrinkles, for the freedom of women who will then tell us how, when and who can interrupt pregnancy, and who, when and how they have to give birth. So no way. We see what you're planning, we see what your strategy is, and from this place we're telling you, it won't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107901	The Republic has a respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107902	Dear colleagues, you're a doctor. My question to you is related to some of the things Minister Beros, who also, the doctor, spoke today. Minister Beroš presented details to the public today on the health condition and data of a patient. The information he's come up with in his official duties, not just the doctor, but the minister. We'll take responsibility as Minister on another occasion. But now I'm asking you as a doctor. Was the minister allowed to talk about the state of health, about the state of the fruit and everything related to these diseases of his patient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107903	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107904	Thank you for that question. I think it's extremely important to open it. So, it can certainly be checked, but from what we have learned, we are therefore talking about that he commented on something that no doctor should allow himself to comment publicly, and also, in any case, should not allow the minister to comment publicly, and I am quite certain that Minister Beros was quite aware of that, as I am quite certain that he used this case to clearly tell us what the position of this government is about the new law on termination of pregnancy and how he will treat those institutions and patients, but above all, institutions, which will try to enforce the current Law on termination of pregnancy. There was a clear threat addressed to institutions that would try and insist on law enforcement currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, rather than The law of Minister Berosha is in force. [[Employed: Honored Representative Jaksic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107905	Dear colleague Kekin, I'm also asking you as a doctor. Since this whole story, the case is very ugly and very sad and since it is said by doctors in certain Zagreb hospitals, but also by the minister himself, you have now answered. My question to you, you are a doctor and to perform exactly as we look at these days, whether you are subject to responsibilities, what responsibilities and what possible consequential consequences you may have for such reckless, irresponsible, and unfortunately in some statements bordering and inhumane behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107906	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107907	Thank you for asking. So, the question should be asked to begin by the Croatian Medical Chamber, they will certainly know exactly what the steps are, but the violation of medical secrets and the presentation of medical data is quite safe for strict procedures, so ultimately, for questioning about the license, etc., so imagine that I come as a psychiatrist, and I don't have any details about who I'm talking about, about medicines, etc. It's the exact same thing, ma'am. I guess. When it comes to the medical secret state of my pancreas and the state of my soul and my cousin's condition, if you will, it's the exact same thing, and also, the state of my uterus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107908	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107909	My colleague Kekin, apart from the really scary things that the minister actually said today, which is that, in his opinion, he literally changes his views through his commissions, changes the law, changes the law and introduces new criteria for medically indicated abortion, that is, the interruption of pregnancy, he also discovered the very essence and nature of the HDZ government when he said so what the patient did not directly report to me, I would speed it up because it is your modus operandi. If you have a number direct from the minister and you call, then you'll fix it, even if you're a party member you'll go even faster and there might not even be an objection to conscience, a conscience then it comes out, jump out the window, but if you don't, if you don't go the regular way then you'll either end up in Slovenia or end up in this way that the brave woman ended up unfortunately today under... And with the shoes of Minister Berosha. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107910	Dear representative Kekin. Thank you very much, don't break the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107911	Thank you, Comrade Bencic, thank you, Chairman. So, it's absolutely true, I would really use this minute to thank Mirela Cavidi from this place for her courage which is not too small to come out to something that is so painfully present precisely because she would not benefit from it because she has no use of it, she is only experiencing gnashing in the media and by the minister himself as we see it but to warn, as well as some other brave women before her, to warn about what is happening to Croatian women in Croatian hospitals which, I will repeat, I said this morning, so we know how she is humanised by Croatian hospitals, Minister Beros has said what the code, it's that famous code, the party chooses the way, the party sets up directors, the party sets up chiefs's clinics, so then we have clinics that hate women. ... You won't drown us with you ever, ever. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107912	Please, please, let's not, let's not, come on, come on, let's not from the bench, let's not from the bench, there's a way and there's a business way to discuss it. Now, on behalf of you, colleague Kekin, don't you... I just said please don't talk from the bench, then you go and do the same thing, it doesn't really make sense. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Damir Habian, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107913	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it's actually great today to discuss these two opposition proposals from the morning because I think that the Croatian public now sees who is and what is opposition and what way and what would it be to not let God come to the election and get a chance to manage this country. For you there is no principle of presummation of innocence, we have seen it before, but it is particularly stressed and today you have declared a whole series of people guilty here, and that you are not God I repeat in my power, it is likely that these people would end up somewhere where they shouldn't end up without any trial because you and the investigation and the police and the state's attorney and ultimately supreme court and supreme moral authority. And I'm just going to, just for a little while, have to do what was last, so I don't think it's nice to use emotions and use certain situations that are difficult for all to get political points. That's what I have to say, it's not right and it's not really, it wasn't really in place, that's what I have to say because you took the side and indirectly pointed at some others here to think differently which is not true. Secondly, these two suggestions, I'm going to say again that they're artisans, you're going to be angry again, but they are. I'll do it. So I'm going to go from being a lawyer to a lawyer to a lawyer, and I'm going to let myself, so when something comes in front of someone, in front of a court, there's got to be some content in front of the administrative body. [[Clock incursion: clocks]] This kind of thing that talks about disbanding HS I would expect it to have certain facts, that it has certain arguments that are supported by evidence, that is, this four lines, in fact the disbanding HS and therefore you expect someone here to raise their hand to disband HS, I'll call again that the article, you didn't say any arguments. My colleague, my colleague Rasdic here said earlier that she would now, not be destructive that she would be constructive to say something about reform. I've really heard the ears, I've really expected to hear now that we're finally going to hear something crucial, which she said should change something in the HS Rules of Procedure, so it's a key and only reform that will change the direction this country is going to change. And you were talking about the grade HS has, so you were wondering if maybe that's the kind of grade we all have here, so unfortunately because of some who behave the way they behave, so go back and forth and think about whether maybe you've contributed to this by your actions. As far as your proposal is concerned, 8 days ago, new ministers were confirmed here in HS, most of them stable, none of the acts voted and confirmed in this HS received less than 76 hands regardless of whether they needed it or not to comply with the Rules of Procedure. When we talk about the need for early elections, I think that no one in this situation in the pandemic, two earthquakes, now Russia's aggression in Ukraine, would be reasonable enough to call the elections. Someone mentioned there were elections in France, they were in Hungary, that colleagues and colleagues, but these were regular elections, elections that had to be held. We had the 2020 election, it was a pandemic, we spent it, and HDZ beat it, and it was very convincing, you lost it, and that's what's bothering you, and why you're constantly going with certain interpretations, ministers' shifts, now you have two motions to dissolve HS. What is best for you with this proposal is that you go with the fig in your pocket because you beg God not to make the choice, you pray to God that there is no choice. She said a colleague Bencic the question is if I'm going to be in the next assembly, you're probably going to go from yourself, so you're wondering if this goes away if I'm going to sit here, you'll only see it in 2024. when there will be regular elections. As for the government's work, as far as the government's work is concerned, you have the Schengen, the recent entry into the euro zone we discussed yesterday, but it wasn't much of an interest, we have Rafael, we have the Peljeski bridge, here the other day he started paying taxes to young people. We have a 10.2% GDP growth in 2021, we have salary growth, media pay, average salary, pension growth. We have a whole package of measures of nearly 5 billion kuna to reduce the inflation impact mentioned earlier by a fellow from the bench to the citizens. From support to farmers, one-time pensioners' benefits, from subsidisation of accounts for companies, subsidisation of accounts for citizens, etc. Almost 5 billion kuna. However, it does not matter to you, obviously it is not your responsibility to discuss it here today, because it does not benefit you but is easier to call people who are not legally found or advertised guilty. That's easier for you and that's all you know. And that's the only thing you're going through today. You didn't talk about the tourist season. Last year almost at the level of 2019. You haven't talked, for example, to a signed collective contract that increases public service wages, an increase of 4%. You didn't find that interesting, either. You haven't even talked about how much Croatia has drawn more from EU funds than it has paid, 55 billion kuna. You haven't even talked about that package that was secured in Brussels of €24.2 billion, about the NPO programme. You haven't talked about any of this. This debate lasts from 9:30. And thank God you're reporting to two promoters after each individual debate. You didn't say anything about it. I'd like to hear something about it. And the question is, what is your contribution to this debate? What did you want to accomplish with this? Did you do that? I think so. That's what I said in the introduction. I am pleased that you have actually come out with this proposal for the Croatian public to see what and what the opposition is, and we will not vote against this proposal because that is because we are afraid of extraordinary elections because the polls show that we are stronger than the next 3 parliamentary parties or that we have more than the next 3 parliamentary parties. It is clear to whom citizens have shared their trust two years ago and who they still trust we will already vote against these suggestions because we see what God does not give them alternative because you have revealed yourself and I repeat do not let God give you the opportunity to manage the Croatian State. We can only be worried once. The only thing you've ever done here is dance together, recite in front of this pay phone, ask if you'll have that second chance since you've already set out with two proposals, maybe next time it'll be a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107914	No, you don't need to stay and please don't shout out of the bench, come on. We have, we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure we'll see. She's the first respected representative of Bencic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107915	Infringement of Article 238, a colleague insulted all of us who are fighting here and talking about how in Croatia women do not have the right to basic health care in the most difficult situations in life, and you say that the court, the case is exploited where your minister speaks, only I should have called. The rights that women have with the Constitution and the laws guaranteed can be achieved in Slovenia, that is your government and that is what citizens see today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107916	Okay, that was a replica, so you get a warning, thank you very much. My colleague, Selak Rasudiæ, has broken the Rules of Procedure, I warn you that you already have two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107917	What I wrongly, yes, but I was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107918	You have two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107919	Every... So Article 238, what is the problem with fellow Habian? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Go to the election, show the muscles, and at least the entire Croatian public knows you're not ashamed of yours. And when we talk about projections, the fact is that according to the last election, I have at least eight times the chance of a preferential vote to meet me here again than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107920	It was a typical replica, so you get a warning. In accordance with Article 240(2), I must give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear Representative Rasdic has also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107921	Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning of MPs because one of the lies has been made. counterpart Habian said now that the Croatian public can see what the opposition is like. He can't see because 4 public rtv service programs don't pass on the assembly session after 1 hour but currently on the program has a Jan Willich Folk green generation alone, only 20 years old at 14 he started helping his father get a shaket. In Finland, beneath many forests there are grassy habitats used for heating, but also for various agricultural purposes. He's just a young Finn who knows what he wants to accomplish in life. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107922	Thank you very much for advertising the television, my colleague Rasudiæ sit down, you get a second reminder based on Article 240. I'm asking you nicely don't do that, don't do that. And then you'll talk about Parliament's dignity. Then you'll talk about Parliament's dignity, please. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107923	Thank you. There's a colleague, Habiban, who gave what we say at the theater is a good clagworth for what I wanted to talk about. In his presentation, he touched all those decisions, a feature of the ruling majority's pardon. I regret that my colleague Bacic gave up on further discussion, and I wanted to tell him that, but my colleague Habib is leaving, too, so maybe I'll tell you, we'll tell the Croatian public anyway. The ruling majority, how many times have we heard that? The ruling majority, it is a term that should represent responsibility and care for the citizens and citizens of this country in all sectors. The ruling majority is the power that votes the laws, regulations, reports, which directly affect the everyday life of all our citizens. The ruling majority is the group of individuals who should guarantee their personal and group integrity both the improvement of society, reason, knowledge, expertise, well-meaning, honesty, solidarity and sensitivity for all vulnerable groups of this society. It is a group of people who should integrate well-founded opposition proposals because it is for the benefit of all our citizens. But what do we have? We unfortunately have a voting machine, we have a group that has no responsibility, which often lacks even common sense, which because of its obedient automatic handlifting shows that there is no shame because how else do we explain the vote of laws that have neither support nor profession, nor academic community, nor users? How do you explain ignoring hundreds of objections to the bill's proposals in public debates? How do you explain ignoring legal deadlines and thus supporting illegal action? How do you explain the persistent defense of the indefensible, the defence of proven and recorded corruption and the nepotism of former and current members of this government? How else do you explain the act of constituency institutes like this? Amendment defense? Here at the last most of the time, 90% were not present at any single member of the ruling majority, not one. And the whole meaning of the Defence Amendment Institute is reduced to the mere satisfaction of the form, and that is the best definition of the current ruling majority, the satisfaction of the mere form regardless of the content, without hearing for the needs of the citizens, without responsibility that laws should be passed in this House which will primarily and only be motivated by the improvement of all citizens and citizens. That's what Krleža calls exactly, their compact majority, the compact majority of obedients. Such a ruling compact majority has turned this assembly into some non-serious body into a free debate club in which no debate, no argument can ever overcome the obedient lifting of the hands of the voting machine. And that is why it is necessary to restore the term of office to the citizens and that is why it is necessary to go to the elections and allow for the election of a more dignified, convincing and fairer HS calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107924	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107925	Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. I admit that I can be anything, but I've never been petty, but now I'd like to correct you in something not because of the pettyness, but I think it's essential. I will no longer talk about the ruling majority, because they are not the majority and do not have the majority and they did not get the majority in the elections but about the ruling clicks. In fact, these 76 and 77 with the Temple received 200,000 votes less than all of us from the opposition that we are here as a minority. However, thanks to the radical electoral law, thanks to their deafness to what the constitutional court said long ago that it was a discriminatory disproportionate between the size of the electoral units, and the census showed that some of these election units would have to choose as many as 16, and some 12 MPs, thanks to their breaking up with minority representatives who were elected by special lists, some with a handful of votes in order to articulate the interests of their minority, not in order to... the minority to the "rule majority".../The speakers speak at the same time./... and therefore we need new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107926	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107927	And yet another reason why we need these choices as we need a new electoral law, is that I am also speaking in this assembly, but completely unsuccessful as many other things. It's certainly that it's very amazingly questionable, very significant what the intellectuals would say, that there's none of the so-called here today. The coalition majority, your coalition partners are gone, and that's certainly not an accident. Well, I'm hoping maybe, maybe the coalition partners will think something over, if nothing else, Minister Beroš may use today's scandalous statements and violations of the law to make them finally stop supporting such a voting machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107928	On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Nino Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107929	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Returning briefly to the wrong thesis of counterparts, Habian, that the Croatian public can now see what the opposition is, this is really worth stressing. It is scandalous that public broadcasters who are not commercial television and who do not need to be focused do not know Turkish soap operas or what fun commercial content but what is the public's interest, and I do not see more public interest than what the country's most representative body does through which they also express their sovereignty by trusting us with a mandate at 4g. but at one afternoon on the 4th floor of the HRT program and instead of playing this program that they exist and that doesn't cost them anything right now we can watch about this little Finnish environmentalist, Sammy, who collects with Dad... It is a disaster and I can only express hope that the new assembly, the assembly, will get the opportunity and opportunity through public service as long as the meeting is held at noon, either at midnight, or at 3:00 a.m., that every word spoken in HS can be reached by Croatian citizens who elect this assembly and whose laws are passed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we heard something about the presummation of innocence, so why the government does not respect the presummation of innocence, why the government did not respect the presummation of innocence with the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, but as a result, it is not good for the government, and it is good for the parliament. It's good to respect the presummation of innocence, but it's good to know some statistics. When we talk about the case of Gabriela Žalac and Mr. Petrica, I will remind you that the European public prosecutor does not raise charges lightly, that, in 95% of the cases, they end up with a powerful verdict, so respecting the presumption of innocence when we are in force, some political conjecture should be taken into account. The law is easier to change than custom or standard. What do I mean by that? You can't do so much damage to the worst law you can bring to the extent that you're doing damage to customs by breaking the standards of Croatian politics because the law can be fixed, a new council can pass a better law, but to create a political good practice and a level that will not be broken and under which it will not go are years, perhaps 10 years of cultivation. It's like that story about the English lawn, how the English is a good lawn, what you do to that lawn, so it says it's watering, I cut if it's sometimes... Well, I'm working, too, but 200 years old. That's it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what you're doing isn't such a bad law problem because the law has changed easily, but you have broken democratic standards and customs in Croatia, you have brought them down at the moment after the arrest of Minister Horvat because you have not disbanded the parliament and have called a new election immediately. After the case, 4-5 more things happened each in a decent democratic Western political community were enough for the government to fall and to call new elections. So you do great and lasting damage, I will repeat once again, by breaking democratic customs and democratic standards, call it levels as you will, cheeks, fat cheeks, stomach strength, not to go further into body metaphors in the Republic of Croatia. Because where the bottom line is, you keep moving that level, which still has to happen, which still the minister must or the vice president of the government ends up in prison or whatever new one you have to bring in, in what conflicts of interest and from what blurs to say we can't go on, we call the election, and at the same time you assure us that you're so strong and so strong, you have so much public support, so call those elections so we don't bother anymore, give us that lesson in the elections, get rid of us. The second thing, the law is minimum morale and that's what we tried to point out, that it's legal for Milosevic to return to parliament, it's legal to appoint Coric to the CNB, but the question is whether it's moral, if it's not good for the government, how can he be good for these institutions and what do you say to these institutions and citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107930	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107931	Thank you, Vice President HS, for your homework. On April 8th, colleagues of Rasdic were therefore given a request to the Constitutional Court of HS to manifest itself and to call the end, to the HS to call a referendum. A quite sufficient number of verified signatures have been collected, Croatian citizens want a referendum on stoyrocracy and on covid certificates and we know that it will not end up playing games, the autumn will be interesting again. And now the constitutional court is breaking 30 days, saying they need more time, what kind of democratic society do we live in that we do not respect the rule of law and in which they are not respected, do we not respect the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107932	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107933	I will remind myself once again that in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and regulate the referendum, and with us to prevent and prevent and possibly disrupt later. First we have this absurdly high 10% threshold, it is a de facto referendum before the referendum, some average is 2% European, and it and the constitutional court that is elected in the way we know the political trade that serves as a further fuse that will carry out any constitutional acrobatic to prevent something that is not at the will of the ruling, but I really don't know what I can invent here, how it can be an unconstitutional issue that changes the constitution and in a way that doesn't collude with any other article of the constitution and no other constitutional value but in Article. 17. adds the word “pandemia” and thus commits themselves by ruling that, in cases of such decisions on the restriction of human rights, they must make two-thirds rather than a semi-partum, i.e. ... Art. Six. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I, I can't imagine what kind of acrobatic I can do, but here's what we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107934	The Republic has a respected representative, Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107935	I have Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy, you mentioned that in your speech that I welcome that you hope that the future majority of some kind will be in the apartment to change what is happening on the HRT that we are all witnessing, and that these sessions on that 4th channel are being transmitted to both the custom and the law and the public interest. But what I'm saying is not to ask any question in this replica is that and at the moment it's possible, it's just a matter of political decision. It's known who's setting up the director, how the HRT's pyramid agrees, and what should be the public's interest. However, there is no good will, but there is no desire to educate the citizens, to reach them, and to have our words come to them, and also to the final line and message of opposition. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107936	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107937	I totally agree with what you said. I personally asked all of them at the Assembly Information Committee when interviews with candidates for director of HRT were, and I was surprised why the 4th HRT programme did not transmit HS as long as it sat. It's his duty as a public tv service and according to the HRT Act and nothing costs them but they let go here's the thing about the Sami that collects shakes with Dad, the little one... helped what's happening right now on HRT 4. and they all said if they become headmaster including Mr. Schwebb that he's going to change it, but here we're still looking at little Sami, bunny and stream. Why do you do that? So just to reduce the opportunity for citizens to see and hear arguments in the assembly, and then similar media will filter and send a picture to the public, so they will not present a hundred arguments, but they will say here they argued by ruling and opposition, here as they are all the same, and then the sum of the score 2.0, it's a practice, but we'll change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107938	The Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro will now speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for the Righteous Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107939	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and if anyone is watching us. I'm not going to speak today on behalf of the Fair Croatian Club for the sake of you here, because I know you don't usually listen to me. I'm gonna talk about those 150,000 people following me on my Facebook, so I'm gonna cut this off and I'm gonna put this on 'cause, yeah, my colleague Rasdic is right, we're not on TV, and in the end of the line, this is boring, brother. It turns out that 151 is a perfect person without sin, all of Superman himself and it's always someone else's fault, and I'm talking in a assembly where most 76 people should sit on one side, let's say, democratic options, and on the left, all of this is based on some party line. So in one case or another, there is a sin, but there is also a need for sin to be confessed and to gain some penance, and on the left, and for stealing apples sometimes it was known to lose its head at other times. So morale, no one has any sin. Here I've decided to say that I have, I'm asking for a disbandment, I've made a mistake. I'm in my political career, not so long, wrong, and thanks to me, there are some people sitting in the assembly who shouldn't be sitting in the assembly. And I think the only way to go Thank you. [[Applause]] The only way is to actually admit to ourselves sometimes that we're not perfect. And so this whole story about disbanding the assembly is actually our discussion in the light of everything that's going on just doesn't make sense when you look at people digging through buckets, we've heard everything, inflation is so much, demographic disaster is what it is, and I'm the only one who can go out in this assembly again and say I'm 2011. wrote a song about the demographic disaster of Croatia. The song is called "Why They Lie to Our Face" and people recognize it, watch. And some people are surprised and wonder who the turkey shit is that it turned out on the last census. That was seen 10 years ago and we don't miss 400,000 people, it would be good if it were 400,000 people, we're missing a lot more residents. But no one's guilty, anything on this side being referred to as criticism, I even think well-intentioned criticism is being like a snowball breaking down on a stone rock of stubbornness, pride, haughtiness. What's that for? What are we wasting our time for? You need to disband HS immediately will share the public, of course. There's a quiet majority of 55, 6.7% that doesn't go to elections at all, and they don't care about that, and those forty percent that come out enough to give them 16, 17% to someone's trust, and then D'Hond's method will do everything else. The Army of Intruders and so on. A deep state or a frozen bureaucracy will do its part. I've followed a bunch of ministers in my career, I've played, I've been singing, I've been with them, I've been hanging out, I've talked to them, but some ministerial assistants have been there for 20, 30 years, and they won't let you change, they won't let you, because this suits them. Those of the 400 billion kuna GDP that we are able to make, they control some 150, 160 billion kunas. Who's gonna let that go? Nobody. If this is a parliamentary democracy, then why doesn't the president of the biggest party of the winners sit as Parliament's president here? It's a parliamentary democracy. A parliamentary democracy in which one person in his four walls decides on everything and we will disband the assembly. We tried in our club as much as possible as it is possible as independent advocates to lead the interests of the people and the state, to be guided by common sense. And we want a follow-up. Why do we want to follow the outcome? Because someone was wrong in the 12th century, and people were killed in '91. years for that. Someone made a mistake in 1918 and people died in 1991 because of it. Someone said they'd return the INA in 2016. Where's the INA master? Who does it belong to? Is that even possible? Who made the decision in 2020 to burn 40 billion kunas and lock the country on eight infected. Yesterday, 1,200 of them were bitten by a donkey wolf, no glass, we're sitting normally. I'm not saying the disease is, it's hard, but having 390 dead at 100,000 is the result with which we are at the top of the world's failure. Who's to blame? If I've confessed to that mistake, I'll admit this one, but I haven't been able to make that decision. Although when I confronted the president of the current assembly at one meeting, I told him that the Swedish model, but he and the journalist attacked me too. Any consequences? No brother. This is a country where there is no consequence. You do whatever you want, you steal all you want, you go to jail for a little bit. It's not a problem here if they stole it, so it caught you. The problem is if it gets you, and you didn't steal, or if you stole, you'll manage. So, I'd love to, and I thought we'd talk about disbanding the council, but let's make some decisions and laws before that and then the next one won't be like this. That's what we need, to have parliamentary documentation, that we don't have plenary sessions about everything. For what? The most qualitative debates in this assembly are being held on committees. The late Dr. Tudjman Miro talked about how it should be organised differently, and he was right, that committees do more, that quality people, quality experts, that our academic community should be involved, that they solve it, and that we should find ourselves when to discuss important things at the plenary session. This much we all remind ourselves of my children when they were little and when they watched Shrek, then when they finished 56 times watching me say we want something else, they would say no more and again the same thing, the game after the play. I know exactly who's raising the line to whom. Disbanding the assembly without amending the electoral law, without changing the election units, what is it for? Well, we're a country with 500,000 voters rather than residents. That's a fact. Let's disband the assembly, let's go. Here, I'm the first one to make the mistake I'm going. You, too, sinless after me. So, disbanding the assembly without defining what we were warned by the Venice Commission, the Constitutional Court, which is a question of minority MPs, me, I've already said so I repeat, so I've been called back in the media that we finance that I'm some kind of chauvinist and nationalist. I don't care who's what, I don't care at all. I'm interested in having my kids stay in the country, I'm interested in living better, that's what I'm interested in, but who's what and because he has blood cells like that and gets a function like that, I don't care, and that's what I'm against in the root. And say something to my colleagues from the opposition that I have therefore signed. Two days after the arrest of Minister Horvat were elections in Boraja. It's a small spot in the Sibenik hinterland. HDZ is there in power all the time and in 30 years the HDZ government has disappeared school, post office, all of those facilities where we ate lamb there is only one left. Two days after the arrest of Minister Horvat were the extraordinary elections in Boraja, the turnout was what it was, 50 people came out and HDZ won 100%. So let's not get carried away. Without changing the electoral law, without serious preparations and reforms that this government and this assembly can do will be nothing. But if you break up, we'll go first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107940	The debate follows on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107941	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll talk about Minister Beros. According to HZZ official data, I have now Googled, Croatia has ordered more than 6 million doses of vaccines, more than 6 million doses of vaccines by the end of 2021, so I have no data as much as we ordered in 2022. Come on, I just want to underline that I'm clear. What I want is for Minister Berosha to happen to me. I'm serious, so what I want to do to that man at any level of human being is to happen to me, but who has the house, so the minister who has the salary, as much as the minister has the salary, 17-18 000, right, Branko as much as has the minister's salary, so 15,000 kuna has the minister's salary, 15,000 kuna manages what, billions and Minister Beroš orders a Ronapreva vaccine, or a drug for forgiveness of ronapreva, pays him 30 million kuna, 30 million kuna, and I ask him as an agent here at HS, ministers why you spent money on some medicine for which American... said it was ineffective, after which you ordered it, after which you paid, no answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Beroš does not respect the HS Regulation, and in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, he does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I won't talk at all about how he paid for certain technical things for hospitals 11 million kuna in the purchase of 5 million kuna, I won't talk about how he was pulling people around, he wasn't wearing a mask anywhere, anywhere, at private parties, at parties, here and there, and then he hypocritically asked Croatian citizens to wear a mask. He sends you a virologist from Canada, I can't tell him that I don't get a man into a problem he's been working on around the sarsa, says Marine, so every mask protects just as much as the declaration says on it, and not as much as you say Minister Beros, and it's a two-hour surgical mask, and he has to move, and against the covid, we know what the profession is, but this is the agenda anyway, isn't it? Then let's take a step further, Pfizer has announced, the people I'm talking about this dumb days, there's no ministry of truth faxographers to censor me, I've been hitting on this for days, these are the official papers of Pfizer, his shareholders' report, page 6, century 3 asks him... If we're going to get a permanent permit, they say no, but we're going to lobby the re-enlargement of the license, the story only of the Pfizer, says because there's too many side effects, that's what they said, I've put links to the original documents, the ministry of truth hasn't responded, or they've mocked me on the mainstream media, which is gentlemen, why there's no informed consent, why people don't explain exactly everything, so let the citizens choose what they want, can be vaccinated on Mondays and Fridays as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problems with that, whoever wants, but there's no right to make anyone do anything against their will. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pfezer knew that the people who got over it didn't need to be vaccinated, that's their reports, not my reports or crazy anti-vaxers, they didn't need to be vaccinated, they were hiding that data, so why didn't the minister come to us here and tell us the citizens of the Republic, so that's it, you decide what you want now. Whether it's oiled, whether it's oiled, I don't know, but I know it says in one book, "Nothing's hidden that's going to stay secret, it's going to get out sooner or later," so this is going to come out, and so I think the referendum story has to be over, and that means give us a referendum, let the citizens say what they think about stogeocracy, what we fear, give a referendum to Croatian citizens that they say what they think about stogeocracy and covid certificates. These won't give up, citizens know this, I'm telling you citizens, the team's getting ready for the fall, playing their games again, so the German health minister said that, so in the fall, we've got a virus more fatal than a delta. That's what he said not me, Bill Gates, here some laugh, the man said it in an interview, so I didn't say it, how do the prophets know the sons over the crystal ball, and Fauci now says lockdown doesn't make sense, the link of his speech I put in, says lockdown doesn't make any sense, and you jumped over our head 2.g. And asked people to close up like birds in a cage. Please, you have the greatest responsibility of ruling, watch over this people, don't screw us up, don't screw us up, your biggest responsibility is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107942	The replica of Nicola Grmoi, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107943	Thank you. Dear colleague Miletic, I received an e-mail from an anesthesiologist Željko Oskojic, says behind me is a classic story, life and studio in the Republic, then going abroad, in my case in Austria and doing specialization in Austria, in Austria I am 7 years. My problem was about a month ago, I had an uncle who was an oncology patient, he was severely ill, he was lying on oncology in KBC Osijek, and it was a shock to find out that visits to KBC Osijek were still banned because of the covid measures, he unfortunately died 9.4. and we didn't have a chance to say goodbye to him at the hospital. My uncle wasn't covid, he was vaccinated twice, and he died of complications of bladder cancer, so still unlike Austria, even though all the measures in us were abolished, so you're not allowed to test yourself with a covid test and go to the hospital and visit your patient, a member of the family, to say goodbye in a dignified way, at least that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107944	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107945	I'm totally freaked out on Pfizer because the shovels, someone who's been convicted twice because he's been swindled and lied, so 23 billion people are no joke, I think 23 billion have paid court settlements dollars, then 60 million kunas, how to trust these people. I look you in the eye and cheat you twice and be convicted of it, how and what I will come for the third time, and you believe me. As for this colleague, Grmoy, it is truly insane not to allow someone to be tested and that man visits especially his relatives or his neighbors in hospitals and it is insane that in hospitals now they have reduced Minister Beroš to four months of confirmation, so we will talk about it now in the next days, no more talk and vaccinated and over, it is no longer worth 6 months but 4 months, people are constantly pushing into some crazy, crazy situation again, but every candle up is said to be old.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107946	Next debate on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will have a bit of a different course of debate and I will do the work and perhaps the best minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia no matter how politically I disagree with him, and that is Minister Zdravko Maric. In economic theory, we have two great thinkers of the 20th century, one is Keynes, the other is Friedman and it is certain that for each of them we can find a lot of virtues, we can find a lot of faults and we can determine in various times that what they've been propagating and developing and educating their students and students at some stages proved to be something that was not good for a certain moment. So I dare say that Minister Maric, despite his qualities as a financier, with his policies that are clear to everyone that he can't bring them to the end alone because, of course, the political framework gives the prime minister, is not what the Croatian state needs today, is not what Croatia needs today, and it is simply not a set of economic policies that at the moment of the crisis we are in can contribute to making Croatian citizens live better, to get out of this crisis, but also that our economy at least preserves so little competitiveness that it still has in this great European market, without talking about some future steps and future competition. Why am I talking about this? That is why we have had the opportunity to look and watch for several months as the government has not given too much incentives for electricity and gas where we also go to collect how much more VAT has come from, since it has erupted in prices, not given too much to the citizens, let's be realistic, where the government has not found a model to start on large capital to set up large trade chains, where we have proved here several times in the assembly that we simply have less average and minimum wage than Italy or Slovenia, and the same trade chains that have more expensive consumer baskets in Croatia than they have in Slovenia or Italy. It takes a much stronger role for the government. Energy has been talked about a lot, and it also takes a much stronger role for the government and in setting up MOL towards Orban, so we know that it's not going very well, but also setting it up when we talk about the price of Croatian energy starting with oil because we can't say that the normal situation of our oil goes to Hungary, that someone there fixates it at 9.5 kuna, and we're lucky that there's still 15.00 kuna because it's a normal event of disturbances and then INA for the first quarter announces cca 650 million kuna profits. We also do not have consistent tax policies that will protect the weaker ones. We've had a few sets of tax reforms, I'm talking about income tax now, we've been saying from this pay phone that we're doing tax reform where Parliament's pay representatives are going to grow thousands of kunas, and the cooks, waiters and the rest of the constituencies for 100, 200 kunas say it's normal. It is not normal, we need a much more courageous taxation of those who are richer and those who have more, we need finally a clear and adequate policy on how to tax capital because in some of our friends in Croatia we talk about Mecca for money, we all know it very well, and we haven't yet made a step in this direction. Today there is also a tax on property or real estate tax, I will not say that we need to introduce it, but surely we also need to have a serious debate because today when inflation, and money has a lot and often have suspicious types of money, a lot of things are being shed into real estate, and we still haven't come up with a view to taxing the property. After that, an ecology, a very important topic, when we will finally be ready to discuss in Croatia how we will tax polluters. We had no chance to hear about it either Minister Maric or the ruling majority. And what you would have left for the end as the last, financing units of local self-government. When we gather courage and draw a line and say how many there are too many, but when we are ready to make a clear decentralisation of the state where we will know clearly what it is coming towards the units of local self-government and how, through clear tax revenues, not through the Balance Fund and when we will finally have the power to reduce public administration so clearly that this decentralisation really makes sense so that we can say that profit tax and value added tax can remain where they are and where they are created, and not that everything is withdrawn into one big national budget and that many times then someone shares it with a political key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107948	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107949	Excuse me. I really appreciate your exposure since you're talking about very specific things, but I would also appreciate it even more if you were true and true and you weren't going to abuse some facts that didn't stand. You just said that in Hungary it is cheaper than in our country, that fuel that is produced here is exported to Hungary and is cheaper there..., please do not bring such facts to such facts, obliterate the public of Croatia and all of us here because here we are right now. my neighbor was in Hungary, [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The fuel's more expensive than our Euro diesel. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107950	You used this for replica, you get a warning. You have no right to answer. [[I happen to live near the Hungarian border.]] This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The replica of Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107951	Thank you. Dear colleague. You've been talking about an unfair tax system, we've heard a lot today about an unsolicited Minister of Paladini. One of our data is missing today, which is that his wife is registered at their private company for 4,000 kuna salaries, which means that she has such contributions for health and pension. At the request of Minister Paladin, he made it clear that she would remain on that salary with such a minimum contribution, so I would ask you nicely if a minister in the government were to treat the problem in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107952	Thank you very much, and you've super-completed me, sometimes in five minutes you don't even remember what to say, but it definitely falls under that capital tax, taxing in a second step of luxury, because we have a situation in a very large company where you just use what we have in tax policy, and at the end of the day, you get to it if you know how to manage, and those who have such incomes, and that's how they work, of course they can manage, that you're much better at the minimum and that you get to profit at the end of the year, and you live very well. It's the same thing we did with Croatian tax policies where unfortunately we absolutely opened the space for the continuation of that policy that we thought she died of. The thesis will likely be repeated again on Sunday at 2 p.m. on Sunday, who has been bailing, pitting, but with us now it gets a new follow-up with unfair tax policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107953	Next is the debate on behalf of Attorneys' Club of the Homeland Movement of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107954	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Let's start by looking at how the parliament stands in the perception of Croatian citizens in the first place. The work of parliamentary representatives and MPs regularly receives barely a passing grade and moves between 2.0 and 2.3. On the agenda, we currently have a hundred and fifty laws, legal changes, reports and various other documents, some of which are already very, very, very long, and are likely to remain there. We pass laws driven by the HDZ formula by half the MPs plus one vote most often without any interest in what the interested experts, opposition representatives or parts of the society directly affected by certain legal changes. Here are a few examples. The Civil Disabilities Act of the Homeland War whose consequences will only be felt in an imaginary and potentially realistic situation when Milos and Jovanca are reported to them by Croatian taxpayers to Croatian coins that have frozen their painful knees while shelling Škabrnje. The law on the land of agriculture has arrived brand-new even though we are 40 years old and by it absolutely nothing has been done like it won't be done in this. The law on preschool education and education is yet another one of the inconclusive because it is the order of the ruling that every child enters the kindergarten even though there is not enough number of breeders. The only chance Croatia is likely to leave at least half a million more people, so the law will be implemented on its own. To paraphrasise Stalin has no children, no problem. There's a lot more to it than that. HDZ proposes, HDZ brings. Let us remember the Law on Media Activity, Protect competition, consumer rights, protect applicants of irregularities that have all been brought into the world without any moment being listened to by resolute experts, opposition representatives or people directly affected by these legal changes. In the assembly we also recently confirmed a new shipment of ministers who should be congratulated with all their heart for taking over a job where it remains short, it is painful and most likely ends up in striped pajamas. The new Minister of Paladin needs all the help he can get. Today I offered him, a group of citizens from Zagreb provided me with complete paperwork necessary for the start of works on their building, which was paid by several hundred thousand kunas, of only one great nothing. Ministers to work. Quite a tough minister, Beros, who from the hero of the nation, drove into an unwanted baby, is in even more trouble. We will remind you, the government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the European Commission on the acquisition of vaccines. The European Commission has agreed on the basis of the purchase of 2,000 million doses of Pfizer with the possibility of buying another 100 million additional doses. With the justification that we will achieve a better price at EU level, we have waived the right to make decisions that the vaccine, in which quantities and at what cost we buy. The only thing we know for sure is that the consequences of the Covid-19 disease pandemic in Croatia were catastrophic, so in February of this year we were the first of the deceased in the EU. The freshest news from the portfolio of debts to drug suppliers has flown over six billion kunas. Of course, the state register and Minister Maric will have to jump in, if I don't think anything will happen. Let's be happy, we were explained yesterday that the common European currency is a great thing. In fact, as soon as we introduce him, and don't doubt that law here won't pass, we'll use the saying from the eastern television pool, flowering flowers in our company. Foreign investment growth, increase in jobs, overall improvement in Croatia, are big promises. But the only benefit seems to me to be the increase in credit ratings by several points and the reduction of interest on future loans, with whom, so that when we introduce the euro without a problem, we will raise more favourable loans in euro for the purchase of foreign goods. Don't think we'll get some big money to start production in Croatia because it's not in anyone's interest either the Brussels-Zagreb coalition or the import lobby. Even as soon as we can, we'll be borrowing euro to pay our pensions, because pension funds will be in serious trouble. These debts may be paid back by generations that are yet to come. What to say about the composition of a ruling coalition that is unique in the world at the intensity of political rights and the authority of the Serb national minority. A recent arrest by former Minister Darka Horvat has confirmed what the Homeland Movement has always said. For a long time, the state has been ruled by the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition. Due to the precise description of the very nature of the current government that we have suggested to the public since the time of the conclusion of the coalition, we have often been called from Brussels to Zagreb as a party that allegedly lacks tolerance towards a national minority. The truth ended with even a judicial epilogue that reads, the Homeland Movement has no tolerance whatsoever, but according to corruption, according to nepotism and political trade. Just because we had the courage to call things the real name here in the Croatian Assembly of DP MPs is often the word taken away on many occasions, but sometimes Milorad Pupovac and Dragana Jeckov left the assembly because they did not want to or were willing to face arguments and facts. Of the two decommissioning initiatives we're discussing here today, all the better. The job of the opposition is to seek a permanent disbandment of parliaments and ways to bring their policies into the position of government to change the community and lead it in ways they consider best for Croatian society. Both options here and formally require a debate over the disbandment of the assembly have their weights. The 50 kuna invested with the public notary for the verification of the signatures were not now far from November 6, 2015, but certainly sound interesting when they are read today and here. I quote, if the Most Independent Lists are unilaterally joined by a coalition or coalition with a party that has managed Croatia over the past 10 years, thus allowing the majority in the Croatian Parliament to guarantee that I will resign as the president of Most and put my mandate at the disposal of the assembly. It's signed, of course, by Mr. Bozo Petrov. Nor does the other political spectrum on the left, which together sign the second initiative today, have its own problems. I'll remind you of an already legendary pre-departure settlement that many have correctly estimated to have been a bigger robbery than their own time of conversion and privatisation, for which we still have to give recognition to HDZ. But I also have to mention the new face of the left of Croatia, the urban one, which is one of the first moves in the City of Zagreb that prevailed was the abolition of the parent's measures. I also dare to call their policy hypocritical towards media freedoms which in them becomes only for their corphrases and always and everywhere, even when they write columns in which they put in the same sentence a sexual generale and a Croatian city hero Vukovar or when they call anyone who thinks differently a credential and illiterate horseman. Can we imagine the thunder of passion that would attack someone who would put a sexual generality in the same sentence and a small child of Serbian nationality who had neither wrong nor dutyfully killed on Sljemen? May God set us free. Finally, the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement considers that the Assembly should be disbanded, but only when the preconditions that we are looking for are fulfilled, which are firstly a change in the electoral law that will allow real representatives of Croatian citizens to enter the assembly, when the economic system that rests on a huge number of employees in the state and public sector and when harsh and unequivocal legislative changes are made that will once and for all be removed from our society without any corruption and clientism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107955	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected representative Marija Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107956	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing an extremely important topic here in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing the initiative I will say the united opposition in the idea that there should be a disbanding of HS, but the opposition does not do so because it believes that HS is not good, but it does so because it believes that the Croatian government is not good and it does so because it is the only institutional tool that is the Croatian opposition, the parliamentary opposition that remains, on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of those who have elected them in this Parliament, to show everything in the most complex way that in the Republic is not well. And if there's a lot of things in the Republic we don't look well every day, we follow it in the media and unfortunately we testify. Often, as MPs in Parliament, we are ashamed of everything the Croatian government does "to improve the life of its citizens". Well, because we feel it is not good that the government, which has defended its ideas and programmes on the electoral programme under the slogan "Reliable", has now completely reliably given up everything it has stood for and has promised Croatian citizens. The government in all its work in all these years under Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has just lost that, lost credibility. The government has changed more members than it currently has and has done not because the mandate, or the prime minister, has estimated that it needs a better team, that people who will run faster and give more for the implementation of the programme, for the realisation of EU funds, not to God that they need a better recovery team, but unfortunately for the reasons that Croatian institutions have forced him to do so, and for being forced to do so by corruption affairs of members of his government. And yes, that's what we can't run from in this House, that's what's actually true. This is a government where people sit or people sit behind them who have various defendants' proposals, but also a minister who was arrested during his term, one almost the only one in our recent history. And this is something that we as an opposition, a progressive opposition cannot possibly agree if we believe Croatia should be more able, we believe that Croatian citizens should live in a country of freedom, this is not a situation at the moment. We believe that Croatian citizens should not live on the edge of existence, and almost 800,000 of them currently live on the edge of existence in Croatia, that is the population of the size of the city of Zagreb. On the other hand, we also believe that areas in the Republic of Croatia must not be forgotten, and unfortunately, Bania is forgotten, that people must live with dignity and have conditions for a decent life. I am sorry that today, at this point in the assembly, there is no colleague of ours, Mayor Petrinja, because I am really interested in how she will justify on the ground what is not the result of the renovation, how she will, by returning to her citizens, explain why they continue to live in containers and why they pay such large bills for electricity. And then when we remember everything that goes through with persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and when we remember that this system is not at all socially sensitive and that this government has destroyed what was good in the Republic, which was a solid system of social welfare, then we have no more time or opportunity to list how many reasons this government has to go away, and it can only go away in a way that if we disband this assembly and return the mandates to the citizens to re-mix the cards and choose the ones they think will lead them better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107957	We have one replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107958	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Posavec, the guilty one. I was asked by a journalist the other day, who is an amannet, that is a pure Croatian word, but what is the legacy, Prime Minister Plenkovic's government as the longest ruling prime minister in the Republic of Croatia. The only thing I could think of in this very short time, and we're talking about for a few minutes is the longest list of indictees, suspects and defendants, or those who already serve sentences in Remitinc. How would you comment, and what would you say is the amannet, or legacy of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107959	Thank you. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I think that our citizens no longer have any tolerance at this zero corruption rate in the Republic of Croatia at which this government and this prime minister are called on all the time, that they no longer have the tolerance to have us all equal before the law. But what worries me more is the fact that this prime minister does not have better railways in the Republic of Croatia, there are no faster trains left, and there are no better places available for young people to stay in, and in these mandates of the prime minister in the Republic of Croatia, there are no more settlements left than the depopulation of the population, that there are no better outcomes in education, in health care, but that behind this prime minister of the school, we are not going to go into one-way rather than three-way classes and similar programs that this government has spent very successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107960	Next is a debate on behalf of Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm gonna keep going maybe where I left off. What is this legacy left to us by the government of the longest-ever prime minister in the Republic of Croatia, so probably the longest list of defendants, convicts and those who serve the sentences in Remetinco, and unfortunately I fear that it is the only mannet in pure Croatian that will leave us with that government and because very few other achievements can actually see. Let's go in order, we want to talk about the restoration, about which rebuilding colleagues and colleagues, whether there is, in particular, a colleague and colleagues who live on the earthquake affected area, and then we who live indirectly, or at least part of us live in Zagreb, have seen how much this restoration doesn't exist, how much fiction there is, that's something that exists on paper, that's some delays that the prime minister gets on his authority, but since the renovation doesn't even exist, and that's unfortunately so. If you talk to the Zagrebers, if you go out on the street a little bit, if you move out of this home, maybe from the Upper Town, but you don't have to go far, maybe just outside the fences of Mark's square, you'll hear some other stories about that neither the city nor the government helped them, that all the interventions that they had to do alone on their own cost and that even today many years later, they don't know how or whether or not they can, for some things and some of the procedures are being compensated. We're talking about very life-threatening things, so we can't say that, of course, if you have private property, if you have some houses, you have certain obligations, etc., but we're talking about the earthquake of affected houses, we're talking about that some things had to be very fast realized, some procedures because they threatened the safety of other citizens, other properties, other property or other people's assets, we still don't have the answers, and the achievement of which is that we haven't had in the meantime. We want to talk about agriculture, so let's talk a little bit about government reactivity, about taking measures, post-festum at the end, too late, etc.? Shall we talk about the leave of our farmers to ourselves? And well, maybe critics will say, so watch out for agriculture, farmers, they're businessmen, they should organize themselves, that we should, if we understand ourselves there's nothing controversial about it, but in crisis times, in visa times, let's say that, or at times when it's going to be a vision and the way that we're going to be able to develop it, and there's something the government has to say, and the farmers are going to tell you that what's most searing is actually uncertainty, and that's that help is going to get or won't be approximately a chance of fifti fifti, that some branch or some production activity is going to be declared strategic or not going to be the same chance of fifti fifti, and we're talking about life in rural areas here, we're talking about an industry that're not necessarily dependent on some incentives, not necessarily about some money that we're going to give us as tax bonds, but a straight vision of this country and it's going to be the one where we's going to be measured. If we are talking about the post-aggression crisis in Ukraine, and then we need to talk more about agricultural production, because today we colleagues and colleagues even after we adopt a famous strategy, we don't know what we are producing, why, for whom and why we want it, are these olives, whether they are cereals, whether they are cheese, dairy, whether it's something third or whether it's olive oil, wine, dried products, we and today many years after we enter the EU, and then many years after we have decided to enter the common market and become part of the common agricultural policy we don't know what we are doing with our agricultural policy and if it's not the responsibility of this government in whose mandate we have brought so-called. Agriculture strategy, although it's all just a strategy not if you ask me, then I really don't know whose it is. We want to talk about rural areas, about demographically affected spaces in the Republic of Croatia, about the perspective for them that this government has offered, are we talking about two mandates? A lot of concrete, a lot of bricks, a lot of social homes, locker rooms, football clubs, a lot of renewed facades, but very little life and a very little perspective because if you talk to people from those same environments that you're trying to help, they'll all tell you, it's great that we have a place to change for the football game, it's great that we have where to mark St. John's Day. Florian, who has recently been a protector of firemen in a social home, that's great that we have new roads, but because of that, in a break in the free government in the May Međa, no one will remain colleagues and colleagues, not because of the new asphalt, they will remain because of the perspective, they will remain for the future they can offer to themselves, but then also to their children. And it's actually a intertwined bench that I'm trying to talk about here, so it means both restoration and agriculture and rural space. We didn't offer anything to that rural space we swear to at the end of the day. Shall we talk about foreign affairs? Of all the ministers who left Plenkovic's government, I think only one minister left without any suspicion of corrupt activities, and that's Minister Pejcinović Buric, if I forgot someone, here's some excuse for me, my colleague Murganic, but you are the exception that confirms the rule. Everyone else has gone away more or less because of these very doubts. And while I don't know her colleague Murganic or colleague Pejcinović Buric who went to a better place was a victim, let's say, under the quotes of "political rosadas" the others were a victim of the DORH. Here's the same legacy of this government that remains in our amanet and remains in history. But here we go back to foreign policy. What have we done in foreign policy for Croatia? Have we solved the problems in BiH? He says and says our colleagues here to HDZ that President Milanovic recently discovered BiH, so suddenly he remembered that the Croats in BiH exist. Well, maybe it is, and you know about the Croats in BiH brother for 30 years, and what did your policy do, not for 30 years in the last eight years? Have we solved one problem? We didn't, no. Is that perhaps the reason for this government's departure? I don't know. Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem is still the region most affected by all the evils that affect Croatia, you want from brand..., from depopulation, social, economic devastation etc. What did we do for her? Nothing again. We've got a so-called. The project “Slavonia, Baranja and West Srijem” which is what I was just talking about, concreteisation and that is about it. That's what our government offers our citizens under quotes, say so "passive" or I'd say exposed areas. We'll give you a lot of asphalt, give you a lot of bricks, but is that a perspective? It's not. And I actually think that the crime of this government is primarily a lack of vision. If vision exists we'll all agree sooner or later that in some things we say it together, but no visions. The vision is ad hoc, shoot the money there or shoot the money there or give it to this guy or give it to him, but what's the extra value of it? Little to nothing, and that's why we're asking this government to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107962	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107963	Thank you. And here's a little bit of a reigning breath and will for this debate, and there's two left here with us from the ruling majority. I met this fellow Habib in the hallway, and I'm saying that he hasn't been doing well since the morning because we were on one show together and they're not at the level of the task today, and that definitely Andrej Plenkovic won't be pleased that they're defending the government today and the way they stood up against this decision to disband the assembly. But it's not easy to defend this government either, so here I have an understanding for my fellow Habian, after all these great affairs and moves, in fact, we can freely say that they don't care about Croatian citizens. I also spoke in this case from a European court where the government played for banks and against consumers, against Croatian citizens. They spoke to colleagues here and these new ministers, so not only those who went but those new ones who came to the government who didn't actually take over the ministerial post, but they have to explain where they got these assets instead of dealing with the renovation and everything they must have come to the government for, but here comes my colleague Deur, I believe I'll get a few lines. What I wanted through this debate, and already yesterday to warn the ruling that one important item, or I would say one of the most important things that happened at the end of last year, and in this year it is a referendum where more than 400,000 people signed to hold a referendum to try to fool around. Within a month, the Constitutional Court was due to decide on the constitutionality of our issues, so on April 8th, the referendum issues of counterparts Deur, Habian and others voted that these referendum issues go to the Constitutional Court. Within a month, it was time to take a stand by the Constitutional Court whether these issues were constitutional, of course, but ruling as long as possible to extend the story and now the Constitutional Court, we read it will not make a decision within a month but only 18 because some additional documentation has reportedly come to them. When I asked the speaker about the additional documentation he was working on, he said phonograms came from the parliamentary committees, I don't know how it affects whether it is issues, whether the issues are constitutional or not, if we, with the signatures of the citizens, gave an explanation of the referendum issues. After all, constitutional judges have known about our referendum issues since the 12th month of last year, and they still have no position. It is obvious to them that the issues are constitutionally impenetrable and now that Šeparovic will do what with his best man Bačić. What's he doing with him? This guy keeps calling him, it's not easy for Sheparovic, Branko sat on the phone and called for it to collapse, and there are no constitutional arguments, no constitutional arguments for it. And it buys, buys time. Time is being bought because there is no telling what will be done with the hot potato, but 400,000 citizens signed it and demanded a referendum. And we will have this referendum and we will never again allow two or three people to deny human rights and freedoms without asking the Croatian Parliament, without the widest possible consensus 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. So, we will be with the citizens, we will defend their human rights and freedoms and it is good that in the Croatian Parliament, not only thanks to MOST, but thanks to some other clubs of representatives, either those who did not allow the ruling and the headquarters to restrict their rights and freedoms, so by deciding two or three people and doing so on an arbitrary basis. When elections are then you can cross the border when you match the HDZ when you don't respond then you can't. Or when Hrebac should come here to vote for the ruling majority then there is no isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107964	A new violation of the Rules of Procedure is the first respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107965	So I refer to the rules of the Rules of Procedure regarding her injuries because my colleague Grumoja said that two members and members of the HDZ were in the hall, and he forgot to count this number and vice president of the assembly, which means that three of them were not said accordingly. The truth, but for empirical reasons, I just wanted to see if it would make me a note. [[Three, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107966	Okay, and then a warning. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is a respected Domagoj Hajdukovic, so I don't know The bush was counting wrong. [[I, it's my fault, I miscounted here.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107967	Thank you very much. Article 238, you insult all MPs on this side of the Assembly of the Right. You're talking about arguments when they were interested. Here's an empirical speaking from experience have you ever experienced that anyone on the other side of the assembly was actually interested in an argument? I'm afraid not, and that's why you're wasting your breath here and wasting our time on a stupidity called arguments and facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107968	I'll answer later. I can't answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107969	Well, that was a replica, you get a warning. We have a line of respect for Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107970	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm really trying to choose words in all my debate and I'm not insulting anyone, so I'm not going to say any harder words now than not to believe your persuasion of meeting with my colleague, Habib, the more he's here, and we can check it out so he can say that we're bad at this debate right now, that we're badly opposed to your alleged arguments. If you don't feel like we're really responding to the replicas of your debate, it's because for two years we've been listening to the same stories that aren't arguments, but they're some of your large parts of the structure. So, I'm wondering if he really said that we didn't participate well in this debate and did he really say that he was going to be Andrej Plenkovic with Unsatisfactory? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107971	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107972	So, if I'd said anything incorrect, I think a colleague of the Habian would've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you're saying that I said something I didn't say. I didn't say that my colleague, Habiban, said that they were standing badly, but I told him that it was bad for him since morning alone, since this morning's show where my colleague Bencic was and today that you're not at the level of the mission. I know you don't like to hear it, and we'll see what the boss's reaction will be. The only thing he'll likely be very pleased with is his colleague Majda, who's always at the height of the task.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107973	Next replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107974	Well, it's hard to be at the height of a task. Let me ask you something like this, very honest and very human. Would you be at the height of that task? So defend indefensible, defend lack of vision, defend lack of action, defend something that ha at least is indefensible. And when we're talking about insecure then it's really in the ranks of something that no normal Wald would believe because let's just look at the arguments, the facts that aren't at the price here but here's what you're using. What's done? What's done? Are we a better country than we are eight years ago and in what segments? I wish we could talk about it today, so if we could say it, it's not done enough here. But I'm afraid nothing's been done anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107975	You said in the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I went to demean HDZ representatives because I naively believed that arguments meant something, I didn't want to demean them, but I really wanted to believe that arguments meant something to this and to other discussions. So here I gave full confidence, so to HDZ representatives and in good faith I performed in my performance, I didn't want to belittle them. But, unfortunately, it turns out that the arguments mean little, because that the arguments mean something on Fridays would vote differently, and every Friday they still raise their hands for everything this government sends here and will defend to the last breath, means Andrej Plenkovic, even though they feel that certain changes are happening, and that the current that has taken place against Plenkovic has greatly strengthened the HDZ. So I said something to my colleague Majda in the hallway, but I don't have time to convince her now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107976	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107977	So, I can't believe I have to defend my colleagues from HDZ. Article 238 was injured because you keep saying they're voting in something they don't believe in. I think they believe what they're voting for. Oh, no, how can you say that, so we're better off, so we've made as much progress as we are. Well, don't do that to any of your wonderful colleagues and colleagues you can argue with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107978	Okay, this was a replica. You're getting a warning. Next is a debate on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This assembly should be dissolved first of all because it has become an antithesis of its idea. The history of this disease doesn't begin in this term, but it culminated in it, and most of all by your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. I'll explain. First of all, because you do not participate in a debate in good faith. This debate is the best example. You had a debate on behalf of the club. Branko Bačić has reported one individual debate, all others are few and insignificant injuries to the Rules of Procedure instead of replicas, here and there. And the replica doesn't exist so you don't get an answer. And that fear of dialogue is the second reason for your guilt. You're in fear because you know we're all right when we say things are wrong. You know for a fact that HDZ personnel is exhausted and that dear leader is unreachable to everyone except his chosen circle of favorites and favorites. So you treat frustration over your own indifference by whispering to each other in the halls of this House and making sure you don't accidentally say the wrong thing to the wrong person. And here in the assembly, be careful to say only what you are expected to say. This is what we had many times heard today in the phrase of the great success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. That's the iconic phrase that must be spoken. Of course, that's as long as your leash allows, no more. Your words are not yours. You get them. You get them along with your own comments that you must refer here in the form of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. That's what we had a chance to see today. You have become colleagues and colleagues from HDZ political cannon meat whose value per kilo of live scales, unfortunately, is very low. You actually seem like a gallery of characters from Dylan's Desolation Row, tragic. You know that, we know that, and citizens know that. And that's why you're looking after your party's future justifiably, so humanly devastated and intimidated completely justified. Trust me, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ when the elections are indeed held and one day you will regret not having called them today. Is there any life in HDZ after Plenkovic? The answer you and I both know, he makes me happy. I'm sure you don't. And if this Parliament remains antithesis of its ideas some of the following will not be, some of the next will be what the Parliament should be home to democracy. We'll take care of that and the citizens and we as their representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107980	Could be a replicated representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107981	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Glavasevic, I'd like to sign your speech just to add one more thing, and you're a fellow linguist, I believe you'll appreciate that contribution. I can't take the impression that you only need one sentence of completion of Cetherum censeo Carthagina's esse delenada as Mark Pontius Katon Stari said, or besides I think this Parliament should be disbanded or this government should be disbanded. Why? I think you've said enough in the mere reckoning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107982	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107983	Thank you for that replica of my colleague Hajdukovic. Yeah, I think I actually opened up with the fact that he needs to be disbanded and that's what we agree on. In fact, I think the big focus in this debate was on the government itself, but this is a debate first of all about the Parliament, about us. And later on, I'm going to say something to my individual debate about it, but there's a huge point in the whole story of how important and strong and important this side of the assembly is is, and it should have been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107984	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107985	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Glavasevic, I really expected a lot more from your debate. You complain on this side that we no longer participate in the debate here, that we have nothing to defend, but really do you think that you should react again to one of those same phrases that we haven't listened to just today for a few hours but since we've been here in this assembly where you're accusing us of everything and everything. Okay, you can handle it, but you as a politician who you've already been educated, who you've been a government official, can you really let yourself tell us here to adults that we're so scared, that we whisper quietly in the halls, that we're in such terrible fear, that we know absolutely nothing, and that someone doesn't write anything, so there will really be governments, there will be lives after Andrej Plenkovic, there will be all of us, but we need to keep our heads up and keep walking around this world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107986	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107987	Thank you. First of all, we do not complain, but we regret that you do not participate in the debate. It's an important thing, we don't complain, we complain, and eventually we complain that we understand each other. To your question I would answer like this, can you allow yourself, any of you, really your sincere opinion to speak from this side of the assembly about any ideological issue? Can your colleague Deur, for example? You let her say what she honestly thinks I don't know the Istanbul Convention has already passed a little, but for example. I didn't hear him debate some appointments in this government, for example, and in other times he had very loud statements about it, but it was another time and another HDZ president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107988	No more replicas, you're done, you can sit down. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nada Murganić please. [[Coughing in progress: Mr. Vice President]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107989	Art. In 238, a colleague really insists on insulting us MPs, now dares and says what any of us think and represent some of our ideological views. The Istanbul Convention is not a very good answer and an excuse for you, you have had a long time to prove that you represent this ideology that is in that convention, so you have not confirmed it, and we will see how you will continue to act now because you have concluded this opposition from very different ideologys and ideologicals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107990	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you're getting a warning, so I guess somebody's counting, we have another injury, a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107991	Art. 238, I'll have a second warning, I'll count right now. Dear counterpart Murganic, who is ideologies in the Istanbul Convention, is ideology when we want to fight violence against women and domestic violence, is that ideology? No, no, that's the necessity, that's the obligation we have as individuals in political society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107992	Okay, as you said yourself, I apologize, Mr. Bauk, for raising your hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107993	Mr. President, I would ask you to increase the temperature in this class or two assembly with your authority and other mechanisms at your disposal, because I was cold because of it, anything that beats my air conditioning because I see that my colleagues are in short sleeves, but I would ask that my work conditions still be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107994	It's, it's the worst place, so move to the middle. The violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Nada Murganic, he did give up or you did not. [[I'm going to trade Arsena for places, I'm hot.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107995	In 238, Mr. Grbin always likes to twist something, so I didn't talk about the ideology of Istanbul, but I answered the call of MP Glavasevic that because of ideology, some MPs pulled a manual, and I'm talking about what you missed out on, and you really like to brag about it, and you have nothing to boast about because there are too many holes in your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107996	You've been warned. A fellow who's talking right now. He's leading, he's keeping a record desk. [[Clip incursion: water, water]] The debate follows on behalf of the HSS and RF MPs, Katarina Peovic, respected. My colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107997	Here's when my colleague Glavasevic evoked Hegel to lean on the thesis, antithesis, synthesis, he says it's antithesis, I'm going to mention something that Hegelian said on the right side of the HDZ and beg the left hand side to remember that syntagm of the farce tragedy. I must admit that I am not a better description of the success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic if we will hear of phrases than the tragedy of the farce at the same time tragically, but also farsiically, we laugh and cry at the same time. But what I would like to dedicate to my presentation is a good opportunity that we have here today, means a little longer, a longer possibility of discussing comments on the successes of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and it really takes all afternoon, not enough one morning, we need all day to do so. Why? All morning it means when we had that opening statement we listened to on the right, but always the same arguments and I'm convinced that there's some jokebachter that's being shared between HDZ and I'd like to have us answer to that with our counterarguments of thesis, antithesis. So we've heard of higher employment, so every time praises here on the right are always forgotten to say, so they're going to say higher employment, higher wages, higher pensions, higher GDP, larger exports, etc., each time they're going to forget the word of a very important few important things. The first thing is that in relation to me, I don't like to praise the SDP, but in this case I really have to praise them means in relation to the SDP government it's about conjuncture, so the SDP government ruled at one time, the HDZ government comes in another time when we're talking about conjuncture that it was artificial intelligence at the prime minister's place we would get some better numbers, even with these favourable relationships in which the first HDZ government began to mess up. They managed to mess up even with the favourable development of the situation, so with reforms, five tax reforms that went only in favour of the richest, means income tax reforms for those who receive the most benefits for those who receive the incomes of more than 30,000, this has shown that these are people who are saving, who are not spending, that tax reforms have gone to progressive taxation to offer better conditions for those poor, they would spend it because we have people who practically work and live in poverty, we have people who mean a good part of the population that literally works, but their pay is not enough to meet basic living needs. These people with them went tax reliefs they probably spent, spent for basic needs, for food that could boost their food industry that was ruined in all food categories we produced more than 50% 30 years ago, we might be able to boost our pharmaceuticals that we saw how important none of that is in the crown, the Immunological Institute is still standing. We could have saved the shipbuilding, not if the clientele groups were still pouring into their pockets while at the same time working on destroying shipbuilding, maybe we could have saved Orljav our textile industry where we settled into the lohn jobs, meaning these extra jobs that had no added value, and where we had excellent products etc., etc. So you have to answer every time to Andrej Plenkovic and the jokebachter who drives here at HDZ, so we're going in line. So employment, HDZ manipulates the number of employees because you count the number of insurance companies that are not and the number of employees. That's where you add tens of thousands of people more. Yeah, there's been a rise, but you don't say it's the number of insurance guys, not the number of employees. People aren't employed, but the insurance companies are tens of thousands of people more count them in their statistics. But that's not all, nor is it scary, let's say, we'd still forgive you. You forget to say that we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, the lowest employment rates in Europe only 66.9%,... The EU average of 72.4% of almost a million people in employment is not employed. What country can advance that has almost a million job-worthy people who are not employed, means a huge pool of people? He can't, absolutely. But it's not a real picture, because you don't count your employment by mentioning how many people have moved out. 17.6% of the population, the working-age population has moved out. The EU average is you know how much? 3.3%, beware 3.3% compared to 17.5%. Let's move on, pay. We heard from the new Labour Minister, the largest ministry to be given to a man who, along the way, told the Labour Committee if anyone noticed our new minister said he wasn't going to do a new Labour Act. Obviously he is not aware that it is necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the Labour Act in order to comply with the directives and that this should happen now in a few days, I think when he takes over the function clearly he is not even familiar with what awaits him. So the salary, and there's this new minister who even our chairman didn't know what his name was called, the wages were... said that Plenkovic kept saying that the government had raised the base by 18% since 2012. From 2014-2018 In the Republic of Croatia, wages are growing 14%. Do you know how much wages have grown in Romania and Bulgaria? In Bulgaria 44% and Romania 85%, with us 14%. The prime minister also boasts that our new labour minister has grown minimum wages, the share of minimum wages in average wages is 60%, but what is the share of nothing? We have some of the lowest minimum wages in Europe that have grown the weakest in the last 10 years. Our minimum wage is absolutely pathetic, it meets one-third of the monthly needs, one-third of the monthly basic needs meet the minimum wage. Slovenian minimum wage is at the level of our average salary. The prime minister promises us that the growth of the minimum wage, so let him just take the minimum wage in Slovenia, he promises us that this will be the average salary. Let's move on, pensions. The peace was growing slightly, with the last alignment of 2.46%, but nothing grew compared to inflation. So the collection of basic products prices, the pensioners did not feel it at all, is the average pension in December 2020. It was €2.566. The share of pensions in wages until recently was poor 39%, otherwise in dark socialism was 70%, but now it's even worse, now 37.4% of the share of pensions in average wages it falls down, he boasts that how many pensions they raise, 52% of pensioners we all know living below the poverty line, we're talking about an entire population that is completely poor. Let's move on, poverty, and Plenkovic will never mention who we are, how we compare with others compared to other countries how poor we are. So we are the 8th worst country in the EU according to the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Which means poverty and social exclusion, there's a lot of these meanings of the category to which it's measured, but maybe the most complex thing is that over 50% of the people in this country can't handle the sudden cost, you can't afford a machine, you can't buy a machine, you can't buy a washing machine in this country if, if this old one goes away, that's what I'm talking about. The GDP, it's constantly boasting, and that's, that's just the kind of reflex that we're constantly listening to "no greater GDP growth has ever seen". GDP fell to us in 2020. More than in all the countries in the neighborhood, I think that the most behind us was about 4% if I remember correctly, means the biggest drop and then suddenly the hilarious growth, so normally that the hilarious growth if you had a hilarious fall last year, means one of the lowest GDP growth per capita, in 2020. The lower GDP of us had only Bulgaria and Greece, there is no time to say anything more about these huge exports, these huge investments and ratings, which I may later if I get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107998	We have a replica, a respected representative of Nada Murganic, a pardon for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u107999	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, MP Peovic persistently presented the untruth, particularly regarding Minister Marin Piletic. On a committee where more than 40 of us attended, she fantasized about some secret Act of Labour in which she blamed HDZ, as well as the minister that we would challenge the right to father leave or the right to parental leave of fathers, and also now she makes up that it's not the Labour Act, it's the second drink upside down. Yes, the minister announced that the government and he are going to amend the Labour Act in two directions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108000	Time, time. This is your third warning and you lose your right to debate until the end. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108001	Thank you. I'm so glad my colleague Murganic that you decided to do this infraction with the Rules of Procedure because last time I didn't get to answer that question. So you're saying that I'm lying that in that draft of the Labour Act it's not true that my father's right to have seven days after the birth of a child, I'm not lying, I can also deliver that bill to you, but you know what, even if I'm lying, so why didn't you put that draft of the Labour Act in public, so no one could lie to you and make it up to you, but already 2. You're holding negotiations, and we don't know what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108002	Time, time. And you get, you get a warning, this is your third warning, you lose the right to debate until the end of this point. Next is the debate on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108003	Thank you. Talking about old shame is always educational, it's always educational. We had Agrokor, someone might remember that, someone doesn't remember, we had... The purchase of INA, we had different promises, we had pledges to GDP growth that actually meant nothing to citizens, we have inflation that is slightly different again, it's not the same inflation for people who have two children, who are single, who are retired, so their basket is much different, so inflation is about 15% for them, and for us sitting here is probably inflation 4%, it's different what we spend and different are the services we use. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, we still have that it's not a good time, that war in Ukraine, that inflation, that's a high price of energy, and nobody's wondering that the most valuable liquid is actually liberal democracy and the role and importance of institutions that then have some reflection on society, and the assembly has a very bad perception that is one of the most important institutions of parliamentary democracy, the institution of parliamentary democracy, and that's why I think it's synthesizing, and I'm not going to make new card mixes or anti-thesis, different clubs of opposition and left and right I think it's really necessary and then it's necessary for the parliament to disband and to return trust in the institutions, to make new card mixing, but ultimately whoever decides about it, don't decide our political enemies, I say political enemies don't mean like this, but the great leader, and the big leader wants every HDZ't want to be able to be the big-to be the big leader, because the big guy who wants to be the big bad, but the big guy who wants to be the big guy, and the big guy, and the big guy, and the big guy who wants the big guy who wants to be the big guy, who wants to be the big bad, who wants to be the big bad, but the big guy, but the big guy, who wants to be the big bad, and the big bad, and the big guy. He gives you one, one HDZ two to you, one to two HDZ, three to you, one to two to three HDZ, four to you, one to three to four HDZ, and on that side of the table is a big, big pile. And for that very reason, because no one here is all cow, the SDP is looking for what's most honest, and these are parliamentary elections, so let's both see what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108004	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter of respected Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108005	Thank you, Vice President. Corruption and we talked about it is not only a government problem, corruption has entered all the pores of our society, corruption is in the state's attorney's office, corruption is in courts, corruption is in the police, corruption is in education, corruption is in science, corruption is in health care. And how much corruption is there, perhaps the best testimony to the fact that at lower levels the police are in the service of the ruling local sheriffs in the service of HDZ. Let's remember that Zadar pensioner who wrote on Facebook that Andrej Plenkovic and Bozinovic should be welcomed with eggs, he didn't even say that they should be shot at, but that they should be welcomed with eggs. What happened? The Zadar HDZ informs police, police are pressing criminal charges, and a ridiculous criminal report falls in court, but the police are attached to the HDZ account. We now have the latest case in Vukovar-Srijem County, the mayor got drunk, maybe it'd be better to say that he was drunk, hit the wall, barely got out of his car, and then called his friend or godfather, I can't remember now what the relations he was in were that he also committed some serious crime a few years ago, and they set up with the help of the police that the mayor wasn't a driver but a passenger, the mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County, so the police assisted that mayor not only in the fact that he made a car accident in an alcoholic state but went and covered up the real situation. And this would first be enough for the mayor to resign, HDZ is still defending him and Mayor Dekanic says he is being pressured, media pressures are being made to resign, but I will not give it. So imagine you cheeks, imagine the cheeks after he committed that fraud after he put the police in his service and now he says there are pressures on him to threaten to force him to resign. But thank God there are oppositions in Vukovar-Srijem County, our Kristina Bakula follows the case awake, warns our county councilwoman and you won't get away with it. Just like you didn't get away with all these corruption affairs. And eventually you'll have to file an account for what you've done to Croatia. And it's not so much that corruption is a problem, it's not a problem that you've devastated the state, making county budgets, making urban, municipal budgets, the problem is that many of you killed hope in Croatia. Many have decided to leave Croatia because of the Decanic and such, many have seen that this is not Croatia in which everyone has the same opportunity to succeed in getting a job, to have equal access to justice and justice, this is Croatia where there are those who are privileged, and these are the ones who are privileged with your identity card or those close to you, not to list all tycoons and how you protected them and how they have avoided answering to the Croatian judiciary. But no one's got a gorilla by dawn, and this candle of yours ends, this Plenkovic's corrupt structure goes to its end, you're aware of that, and it's up to you. No enthusiasm, no desire to defend this government, and your position shows that you agree with what the opposition is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108006	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108007	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, my colleague Grumoja deviates from one of the usual rules of conduct in this HS, so I don't know if my colleague Grumoja has run or is trying to be a commentator of the week that's been happening all along the HS, so he's actually been telling us for the last hour who's been telling the halls, convincing some local stories that are happening in the Republic, and not saying what's happening, or what he himself suggested. So stick to the subject, and I hope your colleagues will congratulate you that you are really the most active today, that you really are a commentator of the week.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108008	Okay, you know that's not a breach of the rules of procedure, you get a warning. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108009	Thank you, Vice President. Another reason why this assembly of parliaments should be disbanded is its complete dysfunction in those parts in which it should take nominal part in co-creation of European and foreign, European policies and foreign policies. And yet one of the main reasons for this is the fact that HDZ has allowed the full focus and focus not only on policymaking, not just the legislative process, so all of it to be transferred to executive power. So, the Croatian Parliament is in all areas, so both in EU affairs and in foreign policy are fully established. Therefore, the Committee on European Affairs has special opportunities, for example, to give opinions on certain issues, to monitor subsidiarity, so these are all things that the Committee on European Affairs in which most of the HDZ has not done. And there's no room to do that, because there's no political will for it. One of the few recognizable strategic goals of Andrej Plenkovic and his governments so far has been the approximation of the Croatian core of the EU, primarily through the entry into the euro area and Schengen. I think we understand each other, it's not just Andrej Plenkovic's policy, nor is he particularly brilliant. It's something that, one of the few areas of consensus in our policy has been from loneliness to today. And it's one of the relatively rare common foundations that we can find in the Parliament. However, his other actions, Andrej Plenkovic, in fact, have put those goals at risk. The Euro is now certain to us, although we understand our Green-left bloc's club and not only us, but we have mainly warned of the fact that the debate on the euro should have been conducted in a different way regardless of how much we agree or disagree on the euro, but given that it is a very certain entry into the euro area, that the preparation should be done in a different way. This has not happened, and the consequences will be suffered by our citizens and citizens. Another thing is the Schengen around which, therefore, which acted as a rather promising thing that might happen. However, this Schengen was earned by pushbacks working on our borders which are ironic, completely something contradictory to the idea of approaching the core because you act as a border. And that dirty job we don't know who it was done for. But whoever supported Andrej Plenkovic and his minister Bozinovic in doing those dirty push backs is now no longer sitting in the European Council because the situation has changed there. That's where he got the quiet support for it. Now the situation has changed there, and now because of these push backs, completely colleague Peovic would say the neocolonial one of the servants' actions, Schengen is now at risk because of it. There is also, of course, a problem of conflict with the President of the Republic, above all, I think, which has become too much for the appointment of ambassadors. It's not the only fault of the Prime Minister. For tango, it takes two, but is absolutely co-responsible for the fact that Croatia currently does not have ambassadors in more than half of the countries where we have representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I think I could talk a lot more about probably another separate element of failure in our foreign and European policy called Gordan Grlic Radman, who is the living sketch of Monty Python, we could call him ministers of tooks because his speeches entered the legend if nothing else, the anthology of absurdity in any case. But I'm gonna stop here and I'm gonna have a later intervention, so we can get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108010	Next is a debate on behalf of the promoter, respected Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108011	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. A little over a month ago, we discussed great concern for Croatian farmers, which is that the European Commission is having a hard time punishing the Ministry of Agriculture and that Croatian farmers remain without 30m euros, or 10% of direct incentives. Due to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus this blow to Croatian agriculture is also a blow to national security. In April 2022, the European Commission sent a document criticising the 2023 to 2027 Strategic Plan for Agriculture, confirming any criticism by the European Commission over the past months. The number of criticisms shows how bad the situation is in agriculture, and the question arises why Prime Minister Plenkovic did not actually replace the agriculture minister Vukkovic. It is very certain that this correction will take place, and the cost of not working on this ministry will ultimately be borne by our citizens. One of the reasons for the possible reduction of incentives is the lack of control of the availability of funds on the ground by the paying agency in agriculture. The European Commission also stated in its recommendations that 20% of users receive as much as 77% of direct payments. Furthermore, a letter from the European Commission requires a review of the strategy of redistribution and complementing the reasons for quantitative analyses that will enable the European Commission to assess whether the plan is sufficiently targeted at a fairer distribution and more effective and efficient direction of direct payments. The agreement on a common agricultural policy at EU level was agreed and adopted on 2.12.2021, 5 months after the agreement on a common agricultural policy where are we? Croatia has now come out on a second deadline with an uncertain result. We have warned here and have been very actively involved in a series of discussions from the farm portfolios to point out great difficulties in the functioning and future of Croatian agriculture, from a great delay in the adoption of laws to a series of harmful and bad laws for Croatian agriculture. Although the ministry has always taken their hand on our warnings now and will not be able to shake hands because of a series of objections relating to the proposal of the Strategic Plan on Agriculture. That young, women and small farmers are not the interests of this ministry is clear, but an even greater defeat of Croatian agriculture is when we can read that our current minister defends the very ones of which the incentives benefit the most. It is also not just a way of assigning incentives, there is also an allocation of agricultural land, and a series of laws that rightly please only the large ones. As much as it says about the work of the ministry itself, we won't talk much, but we can continue to talk about the unfair grant of grants, about not finding in the ministry itself without a clear vision and a goal, and all in preserving its own positions. What is worrying is that Croatia will indeed get a smaller amount in the next period or that the share of direct payments in the total financial envelope is reduced from 43% to 38%. The Green Plan is something we have been talking about for years, but in Croatia it cannot liven up. It is crucial to stress that the biggest and the only damage will again be the most sensitive, and Croatian agriculture will continue to fail despite the fact that everyone is already aware that we have the potential to become self-sufficient and independent of import food. Instead of being subsidiaryally dependent on European resources, our connection is essential and that is what makes us actually small and what needs to be changed. We've passed a new Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land even though no procedure has been done in the old days, and then we've done a series of pilot projects, and then we're turning around even though we've had a secure financial envelope. Who has the most damage from the Ministry's tampering? It's a Croatian farmer. The Law on Agricultural Land 2018 is being passed, and now we already have third amendments that completely alter the way of the score and should have already been voted, but there is obviously a lot of still reluctance and amendment or pressure of a third species that the ministry does not know what to do with it. The government's reconstruction has bypassed the problem in the agriculture ministry, which has not been driven in accordance with the interests of peasants for years, and this act of agony continues to prolong. This has only touched the surface functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture which is without vision and plan and new elections are the only and fair option for the interests of Croatian peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108012	On behalf of the promoter, the respected Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108013	In his presentation, he spoke about that when you talk about that you are the majority and that you can make all the decisions, that we should not, in fact, be able to run any kind of debate here in HS, he reminded you that the opposition received 200 thousand votes more than the ruling ones and you have one touchy, fragile majority for a long time, and I was here last Friday when we had a debate on the return of the former Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, now a representative in HS, presented a worrying fact, which is that Croatian laws are not in line with the current election practice. Namely, the 1999 Law on the Election of Representatives in HS states that members of national minorities can vote for one candidate, and the DIP press releases on top of which it says they can round up three candidates, which is the opposite of the law and then we have SDSS's jokes that surrounds Pupovac round up two more candidates and we get 3 MPs from the SDSS. Perhaps another Serbian party would have entered HS if it hadn't been for such an illegal model. I'm not sure that Simpraga would get Milakovic from Vukovar to get more votes than him to round up one, one candidate. If by any chance Milakovic in HS the question is how much would you have an MP or if you had enough for the majority, although we see that lately certain tokens have been harvested, the Krelja has been harvested, though in one decent way, comes, comes on Fridays, raises his hands, but does not do the dirty work for HDZ, does not attack the opposition. We've got Zekanovic, he chipped not in the sense that he's raising his hands for the ruling but to do all the dirty, dirty work, attack primarily the Most and President of the Republic, I guess a man hopes he'll be on the list. I see, the HDZ list, I see, published on Twitter the other day that I tipped Peggy Grbino off that I saw him outside the bathroom with HDZ spokeswoman and HDZ chief secretary Katičić. I did see him, but I didn't tell anyone, I didn't tell anyone because it's perfectly normal for Zekanovic to talk to HDZ and I don't even think Kabok is giving him instructions, but Zekanovic himself is trying to get as close to HDZ as possible, and he's walking into these squadrons as she was with alleged cocaine here in the Croatian Parliament. So, without the HDZ knowing, he's doing it, but it won't help him, he'll end up alone and alone. Because here and Deur is moving a little bit away, so from Plenkovic even though he was as firm as he was standing next to Colinda, he's been standing so tight for the past few years with Plenkovic, but it's also on him to look for a new boss. So, after Colinda Plenkovic and now the new boss and I have a feeling that he could support if he entered the Croatian Parliament, that he could support the new government, that he could support the new government and it's visible in the way he talks to me about how he wants to be in good relations. So what's very important here is to say the government is fragile, the government is thin, the government has a weak majority and the question is what is the legitimacy and most of what I've been saying about the SDSS is. And here's my colleague, Deur, and he's taking pictures of me and he's probably gonna be able to watch me for a little while tonight when he gets home. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108014	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is respected by Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108015	Thank you, Vice President. 238, then, a colleague of Grmoy's actually making a circus out of everything. If there's nothing to talk about, then this kind of thing doesn't have to offend the MPs, to insinuate their stories and their thoughts about it. It's really below the level of some serious parliamentary agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108016	You're getting a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next is the individual debate of the respected Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108017	Thank you. So we touched agriculture, businesses, economies, etc. So it's time to look a little bit at culture, culture in the sector, so Minister Obulen Koržinek. In the autumn of 2016, the cultural public was satisfied with even more than that by choosing the new minister. It was believed in its education, knowledge of the sector, experience of work in the state administration. It even agreed for political reasons, believing in its expertise and knowledge, it was believed and hoped that the decision-making processes would be at least as inclusive as former ministers Biskupic and Mesic in whose administrations today's minister was in high places. Reason and desire to improve the culture and art sector were believed to overcome ideological differences. Of all this, almost nothing has happened, unfortunately. The amendments to several basic laws were announced in the first term, but they did not see the light of the day but thus clearly showed the work style of Minister Obuljen. Therefore, non-transparent and insufficient working groups for the making of proposals, and even in such small groups, significant attempts to manipulate and impose finished solutions with which the profession disagreed. Then came the unfortunate epidemic. There the minister also showed carelessness and insensitivity to non-existential problems and independent scenes and independent artists who, under the conditions of lockdown and epidemiological measures, were indeed thrown on their knees. For years, this highly creative group has struggled in the conditions of overstretchedness, and then the epidemic has really pushed them over every edge into literal poverty. It should be recalled here that unlike all economic operators, they received only four months of support, four at the beginning of the epidemic and one after one year were expelled by the signatures of their fellow employees. All other economic operators received regular monthly support for the preservation of jobs, but independent scenes and independent artists were left by both the minister and the Croatian government. Now the plans for new laws are coming back again. I'm not going to go into the details right now, but one of them has been united, otherwise, by a very incoherent cultural and artistic scene, because the proposals hit the heart and the essence of artistic and cultural action by giving directors and bureaucracy even more power, and by pushing artists into the uncertainty of the workplace and over-precise. I will overcome the problem of the collapse of the Croatian classic all-night film on the cellolide strip, I have spoken of it twice. I will just say and repeat that the restoration of their films has ended both Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, Serbia and Slovenia are very concerned about their film heritage, about European countries not to speak. It's just that Croatia doesn't. It's just one among the many crimes of the current minister. So there's not one more significant project that we could single out in the last six years than Nina Koržinek is a Minister of Culture. They weren't thought of, let alone the key, the systemic and the necessary changes. The original belief in ability, the possibility of dialogue and inclusiveness was quickly broken and a real picture came out. The absence of the need for open communication, misunderstanding and lack of interest for the needs of the sector, the absence of transparent processes and the non-acceptation of the diversity of the dominant field of culture and art. And that is why I would say another very important reason for this government's departure and why this mandate must be returned to the citizens. Because culture and art in Croatia still deserve better, deserve a minister or minister who will put all his strength and all his knowledge in the service of providing conditions for creativity and creativity because Croatia has a bunch of great talent only lacks a better legal framework and better financial support and care structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108018	Next is a debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108019	My fellow MPs and MPs, I'm a little sorry that we're sitting on this side where HDZ is sitting, and we have a representative sitting here at the time, but that means that we're still in something as far as maybe we're not even seeing it from the public right now. I'm glad that one part of the opposition parliamentary deputies leaned upon what I was talking about, which is that we have to return the institutional role and importance of HS, we won't be able to do so in this conference, but we have to commit that this will be our primary goal in each of the following once the HDZ shift finally arrives. In fact, HS is tailoring all other institutions, and tailoring the relationship between different branches of state government, tailoring and the relationship between the president of state and government, we see how dysfunctional it is today, among other things, because of the underdeveloped provisions of the constitution. To change the constitution requires a two-thirds majority, about such a social and political consensus, even where the provisions of the constitution are not required, needed to solve those major disasters and those major problems that each government unfortunately runs away from. I'm talking about reforming electoral legislation, I'm talking about changing the course of election units, we're still in a situation where the Constitutional Court said in 2010 that we don't have the same strength of every vote in all our areas and regions, and for such major procedures, it's important that the assembly has one political width that is able to see what needs to be solved outside of the usual position and opposition division. We are increasingly seeing that this sage has no such width and there is little chance of ever having it. Unfortunately, Croatia's political life has been reduced to a food chain where the chief is the strongest, parliamentary strongest political party at its top and decides everything. And unlike that hateful party from the former system in which at least in perceptive terms the party was the one who decided about everything or some committee, or some UDBA, today we have a situation in reality that one person decides about everything, so what kind of state is it? Andrej Plenkovic is the one who chooses and replaces his ministers, and it is no wonder that these are all inexpressible characters without his own vision, without any idea, and then of course there are no results. In order for this to change, it is really necessary to change the current parliamentary position and the ruling position and I am really surprised that some who are considered as nominally today or as an opposition say that no conditions have been obtained for disbanding the parliaments and that they would have to change the electoral laws would have to change the practical rules under which the future assembly will function. Of course, in this ratio of strength can't happen, so it's clear that some opposition representatives and clubs are actually very ambiguous, and I think they're leaning on that side there, those clubs that aren't there today, not that they're gone now, there's not even a good part of today's debate today. And the fact is that all of these big things that I've been talking about since the first day we can really work out when the conditions come after the next parliamentary elections, but the basic thing that we can commit to is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and we promise that it will never happen again that practice that unfortunately happened in the 10th session, which is that the chairs on the parliamentary committees, they are unnecessary 30, as I once said, have already been distributed before and before the Croatian congregation itself, have been established, therefore the division of the chairs and the agreement on who will chair the quotas and the results of the elections is one corrupt practice and when the assembly, and so this assembly is constitutingate in one corrupt way where everyone has received its own crumb of importance and prey, of course, it can't be different even in the overall results of their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108020	Replica, esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, colleague Oreshkovic, you wondered what kind of system this is, what kind of state is it in which only one man decides everything? When that one man is Andrej Plenkovic then I think a good name would be unencumbered absoluteism, so here's what I'm giving you as a suggestion, feel free to use it if you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108022	Yeah, that's, that's the seduction of impeccableness. Namely, Andrej Plenkovic is very smooth, very educated, but this does not change the character of the government and the character of the statehood he created and it is a process that began long before him, but I think we are now in one last terminal phase. And we also see on the international scene how dangerous it is, how dangerous it is when excessive power is given to one person, when absolutely no one can object to it, when the institutions of the state are reduced to a camel, such as today's important anti-corruption bodies, when the changes of the law are passed as a mere farce, which we are going to get today with the ethical codes of which we will decide who, who, their own crow eyes are not digging, Mr. Habian, is looking at me in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108023	Replica's esteemed representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108024	I would like to thank you first of all for raising that pause and for giving a very short, clear lecture on the Rules of Procedure and on everything that he is very often fond of over all of us here with a lot of improvisation to apply. I also want to know what you can tell me that just by getting this opportunity to talk longer and to talk on behalf of the promoter, what do you think about whether it's a lever for a political lever, for the right majority in the Parliament that didn't come to this session today and that sees it all as most parties deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108025	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108026	... He heard the one who should have heard it. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Rules of Procedure himself is caraded in their entirety not only in interpretation, it is radical as it was written. It is the Rules of Procedure who expelled the debate from the Croatian Parliament. Is this the other side that fits? It is for them that the congregation is empty, and for them it is for the citizens to think, ‘You are all the same representatives.’ None of you have anything to say, none of you have any idea how to lead the country better. This side would prefer that parliamentary debates not be transferred an hour ago, after 13 hours. I don't know if they're transferring now. This side can dictate when an insecure, uncontrollable representative comes to play some commercials just then. We're gonna change all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108027	On behalf of the promoter, the respected Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108028	Thank you. A colleague of Oreskovic spoke about how certain representatives actually justify the fact that they have a loose attitude towards disbanding the parliament, that there are no electoral lists, that we have disproportionateness between electoral units, therefore, and that the decision or opinion of the Constitutional Court is not really respected. But it's not the only problem. We have a situation that behind the scenes began negotiations on constitutional changes where the censorship needed to go to the referendum, and we do not have a organised list of voters. We have the strictest conditions for a referendum in Europe anyway, and now you're still going to introduce a censorship on an unsettled list of voters. I said here on one occasion if the SDP agrees, they will legalise such a list of voters who do not correspond to the real situation, so they will legalise everything they object to HDZ and we will certainly get up hard against it. Now we had to collect 368000 signatures as if there were 3.7 million voters in Croatia. We all know there isn't, or the list has shown that the residents are here somewhere. And then when the people under difficult conditions in winter managed to collect signatures of what you were doing? You're playing with the Constitutional Court. Branko Bačić went to bed on the phone, called Šeparovic, and then Šeparovic invents something, extends the deadline, as additional documentation delivered. What additional paperwork? What does additional documentation have to do with the Constitutional Court's decision on whether our referendum issues are constitutional or not constitutional? Since 12 months these gentlemen at the Constitutional Court know about questions. But if they bring down these referendum issues, especially this constitutional referendum, they must know that they will receive an adequate answer. And it certainly is necessary to resolve the issue, counterpart Bauk, sure it is necessary to resolve the issue, so a list of voters, which was discussed by counterpart Oreshkovic, especially before constitutional changes. But we can't wait for the ruling to resolve the issue, so the voter list to the next election, because we know it won't solve it, and we need new elections now. The MOST also requires that the Croatian Parliament be dissolved, that new elections be discussed, and if the rulings are convinced that they stand so well, I do not know why they resist this referendum. Or you greased these surveyors. You're not good at some polling when you're afraid of new choices. Not only do you stand much worse in the polls, but with this state of affairs in the polls, you have no chance of putting the government together. And it will be a salvation for this country, healingly, catharticly, to go into opposition but not for four years, but for eight years. A minimum of eight years. And this country has a chance, there's a chance for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108029	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108030	Thank you. Should we make a decision about disbanding the Parliament? I think the whole debate today is very good at saying that it is more than necessary, politically more than necessary. All attempts and all maneuvers and all that you have tried to do here today speak precisely in favour of this House being disbanded and that it really needs to be returned to the voters of the mandate and given them the opportunity to re-convening and select a different, I believe, important, more important, better-quality Parliament. I asked my colleagues at the beginning of this debate today whether we touched the political bottom. There's no doubt, you know very well that we are, and you, socially and economically, are the question. There it seems that the bottom does not exist and that people can endure in infinity and further and further. However, the political fact that a third of the population lives in extreme misery, which is called the edge of poverty, is known to us. However, about the vast majority of European indexes of indicators, we are at the very bottom and you know it well. We are at the top of only 15 thousand dead by Covid on the number of inhabitants, not only are we at the top of Europe but the whole world, that is the bottom, for which you and your Minister and your Staff are responsible. The reason we're at the bottom is that Europe gives us big money, that's why. But the fact that you claim that he is, that we're meant for that money because of Prime Minister Plenkovic, well, that's the bottom of the line. Incompetence, missing deadlines to report projects to these funds, is also the bottom. And that Plenkovic then went there and over the link the way you've been doing in this country for 30 years, so it can extend those deadlines there, too, bottom. And we all know that the problem of rebuilding was so long that Minister Horvat's task was to prevent Vanjelic from rebuilding one single building or house because he was, of course, afraid that Vangelic could run a large part of you and maybe he was the leader of you and all of you, because of that we are all waiting and there are no buildings in Zagreb or in Zagreb County, neither in Banija nor in Sisak-Moslavina County. Where's the government's majority? You're not the government's majority, you're the majority party, yes. However, these people who have made it clear to you today that they have political interests, and you, of course, read these signs, still have you here, something here and finally, and you're trying to be here, we're going to hear what you're going to say to the end, but you know very well that, first of all, the minorities you've irritated, yes, they've won something, they've fought, but I can understand, I've been in a meeting, you've been Mr. Mazhar, when Dr. Krauss spoke very clearly of what he had been saying for a year about how he felt about your law on the cry "For Home Ready". Milorad Pupovac talked about it exactly and in his interview, he said that 20 days ago in that sense in the 9th wheel some things moved significantly, and I believe that they all put pressure together here, among other things and in these directions, and that you know that there is a danger that this all bursts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108031	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108032	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking myself a question which times I've come here in the first place except for the citizens who picked me off the party list. And most seriously. Namely, if I read the explanation of what's today's agenda point, it's the disbanding of HS, and we've been talking all day about government work. Some colleagues pointed out that. So we're doing some kind of autolsonism, so we're depriving ourselves of the extension of mandates to stop this agony that the government is responsible for because it's a message that needs to be emphasized by that, this is the first time that I've been in opposition, for me otherwise, the opposition of the last 30 years, for three decades being HDZ and then, you know, a little bit of looking at someone's technical skills, rhetoric and demagogy being served, a little left, a little bit of the right side of the assembly. I can tell you, gentlemen of the HDZ, that some of your colleagues from the opposition are great students, though, they even outdone you. We were talking here, I heard about Berosh for the tragedy of a woman, but unfortunately my conscience, my responsibility tells me one thing. Beroš, who has 100, may have no sins here either, but what is my political experience, the concession for specialist offices from dental medicine and to primary health care is given by the county or the City of Zagreb. That woman asked for help from her system, from her system. Her gynaecologist referred her to where, sent her to St. Ghost. Let's not lie, let's not lie. After that, if we are unable to do something in Croatia on HZJZ's burden, let the operation go to Slovenia and that is the case. It's cruel, it's true. As is true, one more thing I've heard in free speeches about this pay phone. That the building permit for the port of Mortuary was illegal yesterday, incorrect. On 20 May 2020, the ministry did not even have parliament at that time, because we were all in the elections, it had to oversee the legality of that building permit and said everything was fine. There was no partying because we were all in the election. So maybe it's best to be in the election all the time so then the waist can start doing its job. I say I don't know who's more dangerous here in my rhetoric, taking advantage of the legitimate dissatisfaction of citizens with certain situations to gain cheap political points. But now that you're not autocritical of this side of the assembly, and gentlemen, it's worth the most to you, that's the worst solution, I urge you to really support it now at the next vote. The reason is very simple. We all know, so we've all heard about what's going on in Croatia, so it won't work out better, the war in Ukraine will have its consequences, the recovery of the earthquake is not happening. This is ideal for you. First because you have an alibi for early elections because it requires opposition because considering the ability of what is happening will be worse and worse because now and internally speaking, this exists, of course, look at something happening. If you have to start early elections to set up a minister, then you gentlemen are in trouble. It's a technical and technological question, not an ideological question. And this is, this is your best time to get rid of this problem and to have a slightly better majority, and to apologize not for having to sell the Storm for the parliamentary majority because that's what's been done. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108033	You have a replica of one, a respected Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108034	Thank you. A respected colleague for the sake of the Croatian public is important to highlight one thing, that is true Mrs. Cavida was in St. The spirit, too, in two other hospitals that are under the state. The fact is that on St. After 20 years of rule by the former mayor, who was greatly assisted by HDZ, however, in gynecology, all doctors have a conscience call. It is a new epidemic that has ruled the last 10 years of Croatian health care. The administration of the City of Zagreb has changed the administrative council, the administration of the City of Zagreb has chosen a new director for this, and certainly in the due time of St. The spirit will be a hospital where the law and human rights of women will be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108035	This one of your words in God's ears. Namely, we know that we have certain guilty consciences 10 years ago, and as far as I know, no election won yesterday. And as I said, I have experience, unfortunately, of the conduct of the government, wake up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108036	Dear Ivan Kekin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108037	Thank you. Here, I would ask you to explain to me how a legal building permit was issued for the port of Mortska since that part was not, for him no urban planning was adopted, which means that no local or construction permit can be issued unless it is a reconstruction which, in turn, the Law on Spatial Planning defines as having to take place on the same particle and defines that the new building must not significantly depart by appearance, size, or purpose. And the new project that we call reconstruction because it doesn't have an UPU is more than 150 times and is built on the same particle than on a newly composed particle consisting of several particles and which is exactly 50 times larger than this particle. So I'd like to know how you explain this creative, this creativity of our ministry that issued that building permit and declared it legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108038	So, the process began far away in 2007, and instead of answering, I will forward you a memo from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108039	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108040	I'm going to have to do a little more on Minister Beros after I spent the last debate on commenting on him and asking for his actual resignation, but he simply produced so much material. So let's start with when he's taken over the resort, and now he's 2.5 years old that he's been brought to that place by key to dealing with the pandemic. It was therefore crucial to deal with the pandemic, said Minister Kujundzic would not be able to know, and as Beros dealt with the pandemic, we see from the number of deaths of nearly 16,000, so among the top 5 in Europe, among the 10 in the world, we do not have a single sports team that was so good. And when it comes to vaccinations, we are among the last few in Europe, of course. So in the most acute, most important task for which he was brought, he had completely failed, failed, was a terrible failure. In addition, he has committed himself to reforming. A secret reform that no one has seen, which no one has seen, reportedly squatted in a drawer, which was not seen by even Minister Maric, who was endlessly frustrated by the growing debt of health, which we had heard from one session of a committee that was not known to be being recorded. Debts are increasing and higher every year because healthcare is being subdued before all every year, so this year we voted 6.4 billion less in the budget for 2022, and already after 3 months, the first quarter we can find out that this optimism was, of course, extremely unfounded. In addition to subjugation, health care is on a growing scale for the reasons that more and more spends, but this does not justify the results, so from 2014 to 2020 you can see from the HALMED report that the costs for pharmacological treatment of cancer diseases have increased even three times, but the degree of survival of cancer patients does not follow. That's, like, interesting. And don't follow for what reason. So it does not first and foremost follow the reasons why Minister Beroš, like those before him, has not designed or implemented any quality strategy, the mental health strategy, for example, we have been waiting for six years, has not produced any quality preventive program, and those preventive programs that exist in Croatia are creepyly badly designed and are even worse spent, he has not examined them and determined how effective they are. So, let's say, the Ministry of Health likes to boast about the prevention program for colon cancer, I'll remind you, the Croatian state covers only 20% of the risk population with this preventive programme, while our nearest neighbour, Slovenia, covers as much as 60%. I wouldn't brag about it if I were them. We can continue with waiting lists, with the mess that is going on because a bunch of doctors are working in the morning at the hospital, and already from 12 in private practices, we can continue to go on about the complete absence of any quality control work, we can continue on the inaccessible medical care in Zagreb, let alone outside Zagreb, we can discuss what kind of care is on the islands that you also love to boast, we can discuss that we have been promised an emergency helicopter medical service from which we have not yet seen anything, including a tender and ultimately, we can discuss that its resolution, in particular, Beroshev's resolution continuously violates the law and violates the rights of women to health care, violates women's right to decide about their own body. So, all I've stated, Minister Beros has failed to do as health minister for his citizens. And instead of dealing with all of the above, which was his task, we see that there is more interest in amending the law that regulates the early termination of pregnancy and not in the regular way, through the Parliament, which has been required of you by the Constitutional Court since 2018 but through its Committees. So until then, Croatian citizens, those who pay dearly both for the health system and for the salary of Minister Beros go to Slovenia. By the way, from Slovenia came the findings of the patient Cavide who clearly says Mirela Cavide's fruit has a deadly tumor and is endangering her mother. And what does Mireli Cavidi do with Minister Beroshe? She's being subjected to torture and torture. That'd really be enough. It's time for the government to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108041	Next individual debate, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108042	Thank you. Today, but not just today, I regularly take a look at official government documents called the reform plan and which every year the government sends to the EU Commission. For today's debate, here, I've taken a few examples of the so-called. The reforms that this Government is implementing from 2017 and 2018. I'll try to be independent and say, okay, we're not gonna take very much from 2020, okay, there was a year of earthquakes, pandemics, etc., but let's get you out of 2017 and 2018. When you compare, first of all, these documents, the reform plans and measures to be implemented are all the same because, of course, from the previous year, it was not implemented. And what it was that didn't work out. So, some basic, fundamental things for the functioning of the state. Here, so already since 2017, but also from before, but here, since 2017, your government has been saying that, for example, they will, for example, make, watch out, register of state property. So 30 years of the existence of this state, we don't have a basic record based on which we can manage the assets of the Republic of Croatia and B, implement the laws. Law enforcement. Tax regulations, no basic records. One of the constant reforms, also not of course implemented, is that the system of land books and catastras will be improved. Well, I mean, that's what citizens have been listening to for 30 years, and we all know what our condition is, are land books and catastras. And now you tell me, what kind of, how do you feel when you realize that Maria Teresa on horses made a cadastre of RH, in then borders, or Croatia, that area in 30 years, and you haven't made it with all today's technology, along with drones, along with GISs, computerisation, digitisation, etc., you have failed to coordinate the existing land books and the existing cadastre that this enlightened ruler left you with. So you didn't implement or say that you've implemented tax reform, let's see how we've implemented tax reform. Have we implemented tax reform in a way that would allow for a fairer distribution of wealth in Croatia? Have we implemented a tax reform that would tax capital and income more than work? No, I don't. We have implemented a tax reform which continues to highlight all tax revenues on those who live on their work, whether on their own and on their own, so I am also talking about workers and I am talking about craftsmen and reform that depends on VAT which is a regressive tax and is the hardest hit by the poor. So VAT and labour is what this country is taxing, but you have not implemented a reform that you also entered in the reform plan in 2017, and it says measures will be taken to introduce a value tax on real estate. What are those measures? Has anyone seen these measures? Has anyone heard of them? Do they even remember them? No, you didn't do that. Then you say you'll be careful now, it's my favorite, it's going to speed up education reform. How you're gonna speed up something that didn't even start. Here's to zero right now, and now we're going to speed it up to zero. And here's my Jura and Grga know that zero times zero is zero, or zero times three is still zero, and they're small. So, the green transition, the green transition, stop the time and please warn, I'll keep going, I'll pick up what you didn't do, but since you're already in music tone, I'll end up like this. The relationship between HDZ and Croatia is best seen in verses, nor did I love you, nor did you love me, only the old habit remained, but we'll get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108043	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108044	I hope you're not taking this fellow time. I am sorry that there are no more colleagues of the Habib who are obviously tired today and his task is to give him this recently clean things that are completely impossible to clean up and that he has agreed to do so and today I found it interesting to hear how with the very blasphemy of that fiscal sophistication he is telling him that our colleague Kekin attacked Minister Berosha who has clearly revealed the medical secret, and he defends Minister Beros... It's a presummation of innocence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This presumption of innocence is something that, for many years, does not refer to the president of the Croatian Journalist Society of Hrvoja Zovka, although he has received a powerful verdict in the Zadar court and has been proven to be the editor-in-chief of the information programme that has actually censored his work and for that there is a powerful verdict, however, even the new director of HRT Schveb could not interrupt this trial against Mr. Zovka. And now I'm going to read you what also the prominent journalist Branko Mijic says about it in his fantastic text. Three days ago, it was International Media Freedom Day, and he says, serial prosecutors in Croatia have filed at least 951 lawsuits against journalists and media. 951 charges. Harmful claims are 78.4 million kunas. And besides these 15,000 victims that Minister Beros is personally responsible for, but you and the entire headquarters, here's that information that so many damage claims and so many lawsuits, and that's one thing we're also the first in the EU. Minister Ouljen Koržinek was overly pleased that the reporters without borders had raised us up a little. In fact, she also gave a lecture on how the Croatian Journalist Society and some other words of the association should think a little bit about self-regulatory and then I guess it would be better, but it should also be said that the reporters without borders working on that index have managed to write the following. And that, the government, is the Croatian government unable to protect the press. It fails to protect them from being silenced, unable to protect them from organised crime, and what is most important is the threat of freedom of the press. And this speech will short end with another congratulations to all journalists and journalists who received the annual awards, Marinko Culic won for his life's work. However, it was research journalism, Andrej Dimitrijevic, who again won the award, Drago Hedl, Danka Derifaj who was in, she was the same candidate, the same candidate, or Simic, who now takes out everything about Paladina and be sure and you know it and knows the prime minister that you will escort him to Remetinec, all of this is clear to you. Hrvoje Šimičević, Ivan Pandžić, not to list all these powerful heroes who despite all that you are doing and not allowing yourself to be on public service, the right quality investigative journalism is being born on TV, but you are holding your Perisha Čakarun because you know that you may need it now when it will vote on this Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108045	Next is the individual debate of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108046	My colleagues and colleagues, in a country where many things are stolen, I regret not stealing ideas, or stealing those political programs there sometime before the election campaign because something that sounds good is simply nice to the voters to promise. But the problem arises when someone comes into a position that everything they say, promises, announces can be carried out in action and does not implement it. At the beginning of this term, I put together a strategy to combat corruption which, in good faith, I expected at least some segments would accept this power if nothing else were to be added to those people from Brussels. There was nothing of it, so I neither expect the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to accept the issues for amending the Rules of Procedure that I have spoken so much about. I don't think it's even good for him to change in a way that changes here and there. You just need to make a new one. New wine in new blends and how to be with the Businessman in the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And it would be nice if when the first next government were behind this speaker represented its programme, then the Croatian Assembly's design in terms of the parent working bodies would be tailored according to the number of resolution ministries. And then each individual gets their part of the job. Give us some more concrete ideas, because today we are talking about disbanding the Parliament because it has not carried out its basic task, which is to control the government's work, so let's announce what, at least most resolution ministers might or should do. I'll start with the Justice and Administration Department. On the trail of amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests which killed and fully euthanized one important anti-corruption body and on the trail of this meaningless and barren Ethic Code adopted today, I will note that this concept should be fully abandoned and a new anti-corruption body formed in some subsequent assembly. We don't have to call him an anti-corruption agency like states do in the environment. We can call it the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which will contain those powers that the Committee of Conflict of Interest now has but we will upgrade that body with both some new instruments and tools and with a stronger control system as well as stronger sanctions. Until the sanctions are a loss of mandate and a obligation to compensate for damage to the state budget for any situation of conflict of interest, corruption prevention will be nothing. I will then mention the Ministry of State Property which still does not have a register of state property that would be publicly available, transparent and that would have all the necessary data, and so would contracts or other acts on the basis of which the property is used as well as information on whether individual fees have been paid to the state budget. If I'm talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, and it has a real estate problem, because that's unlike any other state property that's in the portfolio of one ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture only cares about agricultural land. Agricultural land should be placed in this unique register to be cared for by the Ministry of State Property, and agriculture should deal with the profession itself. From the management system, the more we talked about today, the new Law on Cooperation and the new Law on Agricultural Land, when we talk about how this cookie is shared in the implementation sense, we gave a lot to the units of local self-government and their commissions and ad hoc bodies. That should be completely abolished. When we talk about these ad hoc bodies unfortunately there are them at the level of each ministry and that is what public administration reform should contain. I have sent a letter to all the ministries to show how many different committees, working groups, and what other professional bodies there are that have been added to this overall administrative apparatus, so there are dozens and dozens at each ministry level. Now that's what one key you're going to need to delete. and leave the system to professionals. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108047	Next is a debate on the name of the promoter of the respected Bojana Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my last intervention, I started a topic that I would like to pay a little more attention to, and that is the theme of those members and members of HDZ who are supporting pillars of this and such majority whose actual value is to support Andrej Plenkovic. There are several categories, and the example I'm going to choose is Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, who, with all due respect, would be a character in a series like Alo, or the already mentioned flying circus Monty Python would certainly be one of my favorite characters. I called him and his foreign ministry, ministers of forceful speeches, this and I have a good example for that. This is how Gordan Grlic Radman is simply the most absurd minister. On the fingers of one hand I can actually list situations when, when he had a surplus speech either on the Committee on Foreign Policy or on European Affairs, and especially here at the Assembly, the rest could be described as expression or in non sequiturs in any attempt, trying not to know the verse of alexandrin or, or a jam pentamentar knows what is shooting, but it doesn't work very well. For example, there was a press statement saying Vladimir Putim was a war criminal, which is one very bold statement such as one, one of the few situations where we heard him very clearly expressing an opinion, one of his own. But shortly afterwards it seems that he got by his fingers because on the repeated question about it, only a little did you just say that Vladimir Putin was a war criminal, that was the next morning, this was an evening interview of some sort, started to get away with knowing who was deciding who was a war criminal, yes, that he said something he said, and he actually said and didn't, of course he didn't explain. So, you listed my morning wuss. So that's one, one quite illustrative, I would say example that for people worth something that one sentiment that could be attributed to our colleague Arsen Bauk, I have an opinion, and if you don't like it, I can change it. Only here can it be said that Minister Radman is one of those HDZ people who sometimes have an opinion, and if what Plenkovic doesn't like, he can change it. In fact, in one more serious tone, however, the ownership of a foreign and European minister who is as we have described him may have felt the most strongly on the BiH example. So HDZ has passed a lot of things on the electoral law that has failed. He put a lot of trust in Dragan Covic, which we have talked about many times here, but what, this Dragan Covic is obviously insubordinate. Obviously, this HDZ and that Andrej Plenkovic and that Gordan Grlic Radman have no longer had the kind of influence they might like or what HDZ here once had on HDZ BiH, because that Covic is obviously more listening to the president of the Republic lately. He's going to consult him, not just for consulting at Andrej Plenkovic's. That's what we had a chance to see these days. That same Dodik, when that same, excuse me, is obviously this fredian slip that would be said, when this Covic goes to Dodik and says the things he said then HDZ is silent here. There, and this Covic just made it impossible to amend the election law because it was he who left the negotiating table, it was not done by someone else and it is true to you. So it is clear that HDZ no longer has any impact on the HDZ of BiH, and it continues to defend them in all their mistakes, which there is a great deal and in all their sabotages of BiH's stabilisation. So this key one HDZ policy here will not be corrected with a few general sentences in some EU documents as much as the minister and her boss would like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108049	Replica One, Honored Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I honestly tell you that very rarely I can understand in any standard Croatian language that actually the foreign minister wants to say what when I don't understand what he's talking about. And yours, your intervention was actually some kind of probably or actually trying not to offend any analysis or taste of his work. But now I'm going to ask you a question. What's he in for, I'll say with you... The minister left you with some sort of impression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the only thing that comes to mind is that a few days or a week before the Russian aggression on Ukraine, it called Putin to Zagreb. So much for that. I don't remember anything. Give me some of that stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108051	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108052	Thank you for the replica of counterpart Hajdash Doncic, that Minister Radman had several very, very serious mistakes in judgment I would say so. Because it seems to me to be allowed to carry him with emotion, so he allowed him and Sergei Lavrev to bear emotions about poetry that apparently both of them have a passion in which there's absolutely nothing wrong with him, but in such a situation, he would still need a triage of controversies and a situation at all, and this was obviously a very, very, very guilty triage. And there's this situation, and also later with Vladimir Putin being called a war criminal. It made an impression on me because, therefore, Vladim Putin is a war criminal, if the minister can't say it clearly, I can say it, I have no problem with it and he did something that was a good thing and then he pulled it. That's what he'll be remembered for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108053	The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108054	Thank you. A fellow Glavasevic sentence you mentioned in context with me, I don't know who the author is, but Groucho Marx used to pronounce it so it's one funny sentence but you used it in a good context. So, as far as the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs is concerned when he speaks English, it's kind of like a passing grade, when he speaks German, it's like that somewhere in the rectory, but when he talks Croatian, it's exactly what I look at it like that. As for this relationship with the Croats in BiH, counterpart Bencic quoted a song from the chorus, and I will start with "You're easy because you have me, and what I got for it", hence the relationship of the Croats in BiH to HDZ, ha "I'm opening my eyes today after all these years".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108055	Thank you, colleague Bauk, above all, for helping me find the authorship of this sensation that I first heard from you and remained so likable and in my memory. But a joke aside and completely serious, the biggest victims of not only the government's inability to ensure a quality relationship not only between Croatia and BiH, not only Croatia towards Croats in BiH, but also to be the kind of help in empowering Croats in BiH will be Croats in BiH, and this is tragic because they have left them to ordinary thieves, liars and haters. That's what's most fake of all, but there's a cure for it again in some to future governments. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108056	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The sixth I was registered in an individual debate, here's seven and a half of it, half eight of the first HDZ could come to order today in this debate. ... I didn't give up asking Mr. Bauk where I was, ask Mr. Bauk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108058	Please don't communicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108059	...but I'm asking you not to interrupt me, I didn't give up, I'd be happy to speak for the club but I was with my colleague, Bauk, on another engagement. But irrelevantly, it doesn't matter what fellow Habib talked great, so I'm not sorry, he spoke better than I would. The debate over the past 10 hours, 12 hours almost showed how much frustration in the lines of opposition, how much bile you are, how bitter you are towards your colleagues and colleagues here today have spilled you almost and sorry for me, and I feel almost sorry for you, that you can't control yourself, but in this game that lasts all day in the ugliest way you're talking about people who don't want to disband the parliament because they have a responsibility to the voters who chose them. I don't know how you think the council can disband itself, with an insufficient number of hands, that's not clear to me. How do you think the council can disband if the ruling majority doesn't want to and has no intention? And she told you that she was solid and stable eight days ago when we had control of the power and stability of the ruling majority. You remind me of a jumper who can jump to a maximum of 170 cm, can't do more, can't, can't, and then picks up a flyer at 230 cm trying to jump, clearly so poor and powerless he can't, then it's his fault that he can't get to that height and he can't get to 230 cm without a problem and he's guilty, so his opponent is guilty that he can't get to that height. That's right with you, you have as many hands as you have, you can't, and you won't have more than you have, and there's no way that that decision you've proposed will be realized. I find it funny how some reform from 2017 was bad, how worse it was from 2018, and I would remind you that after those towards you poor, and we had good reforms where we were checking out, where we were being examined, measured on the political market by our voters, and they told us no, they were good reforms and so we give you the vote again, so we give you the votes to run Croatia again, that was 2020. So then came another election of local elections in Croatia, so we re-moved the opposition in 20 counties, we won 15 of them, we won half the cities and municipalities, so when elected, when decided, when measured on the political market, it's always the result that HDZ wins, and you gentlemen are the opposition, unfortunately for you, but that's how it is. In order for you to rule you have shown in Split, you have been given the responsibility to run Split, for nine months because of your own market, for ignorance, for incompetence however you wish, there are extraordinary elections ahead of Split. It is not clear to me what you did in Zagreb, what you did in Zagreb, that, then by taking this logic that you are showing us here today after this speaker, you would not go to the extraordinary elections in the City of Zagreb, I have not heard such a debate in the Zagreb Assembly. What are the results of Zagreb City's new authorities that would actually give you after a debate like this today that no extraordinary elections are held in Zagreb, for what? I don't see what the difference between the state you're showing is that you're trying to show in the assembly, that they're better in Zagreb so that there wouldn't be.../incomprehensible/... going to elections, therefore, I'll end up with one song, in vain effort, the players. The election will be when HDZ decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108060	Time. We have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108061	Art. 238, Mr. Bačić, do not insult our common sense, first I will tell you that when you mention Zagreb, 9 months versus your 6 years, I will tell you this, you know what the difference is and why there is no extraordinary choice in Zagreb and why no one calls them? Because ministers or city heads don't drive in a march to Remetinec, but you know what else? [[I don't know.]] Some of them drive away, but those are yours, those were your remains. And you know what else? The thefts have stopped. And you know what else? The liquidity has returned which you left at zero [[Intruder: Time.]] You know what else? [[Intruder: Time.]] There's no more time... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108062	Time. This was your replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. That's your third warning. You're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. Nikola Mazhar, the next breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108063	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague named Bencic has been injured by an article. 238. Not only does it disdain us who are present and citizens, so the City of Zagreb does not have the heads or ministers who drive to Remetinec, but it does not have them at all. So what they've done so far, ever since they took over Zagreb, they've made sure they didn't choose the leaders and they're just looking for the government of the Republic of Croatia to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108064	And you get a warning. He's got another proposer. Next replica, esteemed Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108065	So, dear colleague Bačić, I must say that I am really impressed that you, at your age and in your lack of internship, have not yet developed any other style of discussion but that ad-hominically attack your associates. So you didn't give a single argument about what we asked you, not for the restoration, not for Berosh, not for Paladin, not for the ministers who took you away, you just said what we were like. And you haven't supported it with anything that we see, I mean, there are those who have an even worse style than you, say, colleague Deur, who thinks it's a good style of discussion to play music, which is what your chairmans allow him to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108066	Excuse me. Comrade Deur, I have an observation that you're playing music again, please refrain from it, I'm going to have to kick you out. Answer, Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kekin, where were you during my presentation, were you in the assembly? - Is it Mrs. Crescent? Kekin was in the assembly? Who did I personally tell? Who did I personally mention in my speech? Yeah, give me one name. Who? ... Whom I mentioned ad-hominem, name one for me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not ad homeim, dear Mrs. Kekin... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Please don't argue from the bench, Mr. Bačić.]] No, no, I was talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] about the opposition parties, I was saying, I've polluted with your views and I've said that since 2016 elections have been held in which we measured the success of the government and the ruling majority... [[Intruder: Please.]] and that we have won with the highest number of political parties won since this system is in Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The highest number. 66 terms of office, do you understand? 66 mandates and then I said that after that were local elections where we once again confirmed the force And you don't have to be angry, it's you, it's facts. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108068	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108069	... So an injury. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. [[Specially enabled.]] Please stop boasting about how many votes you won because even the Constitutional Court has told you that your election units are set so that you get the easiest elections. And by the way, we heard from your master tailor that he did it because that's how he got it from the HDZ, which I guess you were in then, too, ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108070	This was your replica, you get a warning and please don't argue from the bench because I'm going to have to give you a second warning. ... Please, I warned them, I warned them, I warn you too. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, next, please, colleagues, don't argue from the bench. ... [[Intruder: I ordered one song from my colleague, Deura.]] Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, I'll start giving you warnings. William Matula, honourable representative, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108071	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, this high jump picture of you, you really believe that in that sense it's a metaphor, does HDZ jump world records that are 2.30 and so, men's records, do you really think with your political achievements you're jumping world records? After all the information that's been delivered here with the horror? You really believe that the new Minister of Paladin, that he'll skip 2.30? That after you and Minister Horvat stopped, you stopped the renovation and that he would do it now and you really believe he wouldn't go to Remetinec and you won't miss it again with a smile?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108072	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matul, I appreciate you as an actor, but you're not educated enough in sports. The world record is 14cm above what I said, so I didn't raise the HDZ line, and I could and still, that would be our score. I did, but you know what I did wrong? I gave you a lot when I said 170. You see, I've given you a lot, and it shows you in the end, it shows you, colleague Matula, the fact that we keep asking ourselves in public what political ratings political parties are like. You won the election of the citizens of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb. It was a great opportunity for you to show up, ever since, in 10 months, I think you've fallen about 7.8%, percentage points, and in the City of Zagreb even more, even more. Here, that's, say, one score of accomplishments we can do!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108074	Time. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108075	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, here, I am pleased to say first that we are finally talking about the subject, that in your discussion you were talking about the topic after hours and hours of groundless debates that we are hearing here. Secondly, you've accurately detected that today, in fact, in HS, we have one play by the opposition and that may have been the first few hours of fun, I have to notice that it's getting less fun and running out of obvious inspiration already slowly. Third, I feel like we're living in parallel to everything. So now the left hand side tells us that we're going after someone, ad-hominem, so all day long here are the people who aren't present, who can't defend themselves, while not respecting the fundamental principle that at least some of us should know is sitting here, who are lawyers, and that's the principle of presummation of innocence. So you don't respect that at all. And fourthly, here, for example, we are told about foreign policy by someone who can't name the directors in the City of Zagreb, about social rights is told by someone who abolishes these measures in the City of Zagreb. The EU funds are being told by someone who can't do a single project in charge of the City of Zagreb. So how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108076	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108077	Thank you. Art. 238 and that deviation from the usual, acceptable behavior in the assembly, colleague Deur, you're talking on your cell phone. Go outside and act like you're supposed to be around here. Well, this isn't your meeting room. This isn't your conference room. You have a responsibility to Croatian voters and a minimum of decency to show. And you choose to give him a warning! Or get off that chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108078	You're getting a warning. You're getting a warning. Replication response. Yeah, so do you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 238, this is indeed an insult to the parliamentary representative. I think it's really unworthy to stay here, so I'm asking you to do something, this was really scary. Screaming and threatening someone, it's beneath every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108080	I don't know if you heard, my colleague got a warning, and now you have to get a warning because I warned her and she got a warning about it. A reminder to you, too. Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Habib, I fully agree with your grades and your views. I think that the opposition is best to remain in opposition, I think that the City of Zagreb is too much of a bite, it is seen from day to day and we will see how the situation will be in the City of Zagreb in a month. What we can see so far is that nothing has been done. In a year, nothing was done in the City of Zagreb because if something had been done, I would have heard from the Green-Left Block Club in the assembly. In addition to attacking the ruling government in HS, I have not heard a single project that has been realised, not one, not one policy that has been implemented, however, is still the only excuse we have found a catastrophic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108082	Next replica, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108083	Dear colleague Bacic. I want to thank you for getting into the debate. It is, many are uncomfortable because, especially the individual debate, like yours, means you get replicas, and then you talk, and so I just wanted to commend you for the courage that you decided to engage in it. I wish your colleagues and colleagues from the club had also had individual debates because, ultimately, the point of parliamentaryism is in dialogue even when, as Prime Minister Plenkovic rarely says, it has one such little charf tone in political discourse. So, I don't have a problem with either hearing or saying something in that tone, so, uh, nothing, I'm a little sorry, I say, your colleagues and colleagues sitting here most of the time, and they didn't say much, so, here, thank you again for what you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108084	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108085	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 238, indent 5, deviation from normal behaviour in HS. My colleague Glavasevic mentioned it several times today, I would say that is actually a very short answer. I think it's a lot more important quality than quantity, and I think we proved it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108086	And you get a warning, this is a third warning, you lose your word until the end of this debate. Replicate response, Agent Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108087	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Glavasevic, if you were normally in the usual today, as the promoters are doing this debate, there would be a lot of individual debates from the HDZ. Very much so. You deliberately, which you have a business right to, you obstructed this debate and after each club and after each individual debate appeared twice and thus more, we understood your message, we understood what you wanted and the response of the HDZ was that no one would answer individually. And I'd be giving up the debate, and I wouldn't have answered the individual's call if I hadn't had to give up my debate on behalf of the club, and I applied neatly, counting that we'd have a normal debate in the Parliament today, and that's why I'm here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108088	Next replica, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108089	Dear Bačić, today we talk about disbanding the assembly, we listen all day long to attacks without arguments, stories that do not hold water, and which we have proved to them countless times that they do not hold water. In doing so, they don’t even read the law as it fits, so let’s say today we could hear a lot of words about medical secrets. I'd just read the exact definition of a doctor's secret. Medical secrecy is a professional secret that includes information about the personal and family life of the patient that the doctor learned about when performing his profession. So, all of this unkind event is actually learned from the media that the patient gave it to. So you need to define the exact, well-known law and know exactly what the word is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108090	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108091	I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Grba Bujević. It is difficult here in the assembly to comment on an extremely difficult situation in the Cavidi family and break our political recommendations on the Law on Interrupt Pregnancy. So to keep me here in any comment, I would leave a decision to those who are in charge of this law, and we will have time next week very well, and certainly enough to discuss this law that we will discuss next week on Thursday afternoon, and then I will make my views known. And now at this point when we know that, that this controversy is about a particular person and her health problem, I don't think it's worth talking about here at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108092	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108093	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Bačić, in the most challenging global times when the government of the Republic of Croatia is saving 800,000 jobs in the process of energy crisis and inflation, helps citizens and the most vulnerable groups with a package of 5 billion kuna measures, we have a parallel to today's opposition, which in the event of a football gleaning in the already lost match, does not run with 11 players because it is missing and shows that it is only successful in pushing auto goals, and just as counterpart Matula mentioned and breaking world records because today the leaders of the opposition have shown that they will break the record of how many of their political parties will be and remain in opposition, and that will be their legacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108094	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108095	Thank you. Our fellow Mazhar, today, we did not speak because we had virtually no opportunity except through a replica and possibly a breach of the Rules of Procedure to talk about what should be a measure when discussing extraordinary elections because after such a decision was taken, the following extraordinary elections were taken. Extraordinary elections are the result of incompetence, unhappiness, the government's loss of trust by the parties supporting it. In this case, the government is successful, the government implements its programme, the growth data of the economy, the growth of wages, the growth of minimum wages, average wages, pensions, etc., etc. So the ruling majority is stable, there's no reason, and that's why we said that this debate is pointless because there's not one reason that can lead to the disbanding of parliaments or extraordinary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108096	The next replica honours Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108097	Thank you. Your colleague Bačić knows the difference in Zagreb... in Zagreb, no people with bags walk for the last 10 months [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't hear? [[I didn't hear.]] I'm saying Zagreb's been out of people with bags for the past 10 months. [[Intruder: No.]] You know what else is different? You were talking about incompetence and unhappiness. Renovate. In Zagreb everything the City of Zagreb could do was done. And you know what the state did, that government of yours and that compact majority of yours? Zero. Zero house in Bani. Zero house. In Zagreb zero, zero colleagues to Bačić that is the difference over the past 10 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108098	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're nervous about something Mrs. Raukar Gamulin and you're not, you're nervous, if with yours, if your manner and dictionary were to answer, then you might be told that they may have been bit by the money in some past times by those who manage Zagreb today. So this is what your performance says first of all about you because in the absence of arguments you are trying to insult your companion. That's your attitude, it's not your honor, but that's what we can deal with without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108100	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108101	Paragraph 23, Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, counterpart Bacic insists that insulting is something that is a fact. It is not an insult that zero houses have been renovated in Banija and the City of Zagreb, but it is a fact for you. It's just a fact. It's called stupid as a fact, that's what Hegel said. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108102	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. On behalf of the promoter, respected Ivan Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108103	Thank you. Here, I was very inspired, I didn't mean to admit it anymore, but my colleague Bacic was very inspiring. So we're going to start by telling us that we're bitter, that we're emotional, that was the Habian, that we're inadequately temperamental, upset, etc., so we are. Well, you kidnapped our country. And not only us, but 70% of the citizens of this country that you are calling on to say that this country is going in the wrong direction. You kidnapped our country. She's been kidnapped by people like your colleague, who I'm not sure is intoxicated or what's wrong with letting Thompson go while other people are talking in HS. And then we'll talk about the ratings and how we dropped our ratings. I mean, when you go into major reforms, when you want to make a change in the system, yes, and especially in the system that you've concreteized, like you did. Yeah. It's hard and takes time and it's not easy and the results aren't seen immediately and the ratings and the fall, but you work for public benefit because, you know? Me and Bencicka didn't come into politics to get ratings. We came here to make it better after us. That my kids would have something better. Not for me to have a rating. But since the ratings are important to you, then I'll ask you. How's your rating on Korcula, it's your island, isn't it? HDZ Free Island, I'm proud to harden. How are you standing there with the ratings and why isn't your ratings there good? Because even more than the ratings, you love other particular interests, and then you impose on the citizens of Korcula projects that satisfy the building click, which is only damage. So you put in financial plans money that doesn't exist, so directly what you're cheating on is council members of the county assembly. We've heard, we've just seen people from Ilovik, that there's actually some very similar companies that are building on Dubrovnik and Korčula, cities, we should build on Ilovik where we also have a project similar to that that damages, which literally threatens the people of that island, but it has to be done because it's 80 million. Now, that's the development you see. Is that right, the development that brings ratings and particular interests? And then we'll talk about Zagreb. So what did we do in, what do you say we call you and what we did in Zagreb, right? So as far as you're concerned, you're on the authority of the minority as far as I'm concerned, more than half of my life. And I'll tell you what we did in 10 months in Zagreb. So we consolidated the Zagreb budget. You left us unpaid debts to suppliers for more than nine months. That's settled. .../incomprehensible/... We're on our way to restructure the Holding that's one of the biggest companies there is. We've rescheduled the city's administration that there are no more millions of ministries, but that it's reasonable size. We returned to Zagreb those who ran away with their heads regardless of how much IBRD,.../incomprehensible/... to a solidarity fund, where you have reported a year and how many of the earthquakes have reported only 400 million, we have raised in 6 months to 2 billion. This year we start building 4 kindergartens, we start with 8 kindergartens next year. So we started a waste management reform. We built and prepared projects for the NPOO, for the sorting plant, for the biocompost. We broke up the harmful contracts that you and Milan Bandic made, and the Zagrebs paid, like the one about who handels bulky waste. 40 million kuna, now Zagreb has it itself, 40 million kuna its citizens have in the budget. We started working on the stadium, stopped the sale of city flats. The people you held for a year and a half after the earthquake in Arena, we ended up in city apartments. That's what we do. So we can keep going. We can talk about the fact that we finally opened the pedestrian bridge, that we opened and finished the work on the Homeland Bridge, we can talk about the project Sunroofs where 1/3 of all solarians will be, because, on this project that's already opened, it's realized. That's what we did in 10 months. What have you done in these, how many decades have you been in power in Croatia? You didn't make it because you were carrying bags. We don't carry bags, we wear backpacks, and we're doing fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108104	Replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kekin, I've been in politics for 32 years. ... Yeah, 32 years on Korčula, my list hasn't lost what I've been on, ever. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Never. We'll see you in a few years in Zagreb, you and your list will disappear, not because someone doesn't love you, but because you don't know, and because you're incompetent. That's the reason. And when you mention mine, what I did, I'm proud of it, ma'am. Kekin. That's what I'm proud of. Everything I've done in my life, I've done in accordance with law and morale, and do you mind? And there's nothing else you can do but attack, I said that a little while ago. Intellectuals, you know, what you think they are, is in the habit of that in the debate they take arguments and do not go ad hominem [[Intruder: Time.]] And you're in short supply. [[Intruder: Time.]] in the absence of this [[I think your time is over, Mr. Bacic.]] You're going home, which means you're just an intellectual. [[/Intruder: Answer. Answer.]] [[/Intruder: Is the time over? 15 seconds ago?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108106	Time. It's off. It was an important topic. [[I mean, don't be angry with the vice president.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108107	Very, uh-huh. I hope you will, too. [[Intruder: I've allowed you.]] So, colleague Bacic. [[I've allowed you to do the same.]] Where to go, so when they call me inappropriate, and that's often heard from your ranks, how they once told me that one of your colleagues was Bedekovic that this temperament, that it was not appropriate for my education or, I guess, sex. Then I know I got you in the wind. I've listed to you what we've done and also what you haven't. And you told me I was incompetent and I was going to fail. Well, all right, live and seen. So, let me just say, otherwise, generally, when there are no arguments, then you go ad hominem, but to you from HDZ circles it happens too often. I've listed your projects that have been reported to OLAF, I didn't say you were incompetent, I've listed your projects that have been reported to OLAF, and you can still be proud of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108108	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Tell me, what kind of project is illegal? What kind of project is illegal? And here's what you're saying. You tell me about Korčula, so you don't know where Korčula is, you don't know where Korčula is. [[Intruder: You should have asked me that in the replica.]] The fact that someone is supplying you with the wrong information, so here you turn out to be saying it first and foremost about you and those who are telling you that kind of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108110	This was a replica, you get a warning. Next up, Nikola Mazhar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108111	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Kekin and I are also emotional in my actions sometimes good as I come from Vukovar and we have the childhood I had, so I always try to be a lawyer and still be a man, so in a way, don't be ashamed of my emotions. Therefore, I have also answered here for the last line to you because it is difficult to say zero things restored, nothing is done, and on the other hand boasts with 4 kindergartens in the City of Zagreb. 4 kindergartens in the City of Zagreb that have 15 billion kuna budgets, and the government of the Republic of Croatia with a billion and 220 million kuna will provide 22,500 children. Yesterday it was signed for 2,573 houses contract at 910 houses is done, and 2,354 houses are renovated. The first day I was in Petrinja at headquarters, and I'd be glad to have you with me. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108112	Okay, thank you, I think I can see that you're emotional and that your emotions obviously clouded the raid a little. So I listed 4 new kindergartens that will leave by the end of this year to compare with what you did while you were with Milan Bandic in power. So, at that time, you haven't started building any kindergartens in Zagreb for many years, literally not a single colleague, Mažar. So now you're making fun of me because we're going to be four this year, and the next 8 is at least inadequate, but I'm going to forgive you because you're very emotional. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108113	Following is an individual debate between the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108114	Thank you. So it's just phenomenal. HDZ confessed, but denied responsibility. So, I quote Andrej Plenkovic for some past events. And then what's going on and what's really going on? The fact that, for the first or second time in history, the current minister ended up in prison, for you in the oven and Mr. Sanader, I speak immediately with a dialect. It didn't happen, it may have happened at the time of Herak, and that was a long, long, long time ago. And of course, it is the role of opposition parties in each parliament to question, to seek changes and to point to shortcomings and mistakes. So, I can tell you no personally, Mr. Bacic, but you're the club president, you're like the HDZ Teflon to me, really like the Teflon, everything's being rejected by you. You only know what Teflon is when it's damaged knows it's poisoned, it's poisoned for Croatian citizens and it's poisoned for Croatian citizens. And now I'm going back to the key thing. I don't give a shit about GDP, and I don't give a shit about GDP growth. You know what I'm curious about, you have an index from Eurostat called overall life satisfaction, meaning freedom of the media, corruption, transparency. Do you know where Croatia stands by that index? That's your 2021 last piece of information with Bulgaria. What does that say about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, about all of us? That people are unhappy. That they are unhappy with management, that they are unhappy with corruption, that the main problems in society are now inflation, employment or unemployment, demographics. And boast, your right because you're ruling some innovative things that don't exist. So, most of the funds or money to be clear, thank God it came from the EU, so just the transmission, but you managed to blow that up too. You blew it, too. Look at the open investigation of OLAF, look at how much it is actually potential penalties, how many potential adjustments that can happen, and then you all go back to the story again, my colleague Kekin was even right, you come back, you come back to the story of big infrastructure projects that, with economic terminology, call those cathedrals in the desert, God and ask who in life will help. Some may, some may not. So I'm trying to get back to that core business opposition. Of course we're going to point out, we're going to point out every mistake you make, every step of yours. It is our duty and obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108115	Next is the individual debate of the respected Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108116	A few days ago on a philosophical theatre programme at the HNK in Zagreb, he was announced as guest Mohammed Ould Slahi a man who illegally spent in the infamous Guantanamo prison for 14 years on suspicion and charges of involvement in the organization of a terrorist attack on New York famous 9.11. I'm sorry, sir, in 2010, the judge of the U.S. federal court ordered his release, his release from prison only in 2016, no guilt was proved to him, he was incarcerated innocent 14 years. in terrible conditions, exposed to tortures, abuses, mistreatments for 14 years, he wrote a book of those 14 years. who became the world's bestseller. But Mohamed Ould Slahi will not be a guest of the HNK philosophical theatre this week because the Croatian state has declared him a security risk, and has made it impossible to enter the country. Why is an innocently closed, tortured and abused writer working with renowned theatres in the world a security risk to the Republic of Croatia? Only the MUP and Bozinović know that. As apparently the security risk was also small Madina and her family, the European Court of Human Rights said. Like the security risk and migrants that Croatian police are beating and harassing at Croatian borders, but you can see interestingly there is no security risk when Ustasha symbols and Ustasha greetings are allowed. Plenkovic's famous commission has performed fantastic... The solution, Ustasha greetings and symbols are forbidden, but they are allowed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we had to welcome that the Austrian state banned the Ustasha party in Bleiburg because the Croatian state, because the Croatian state government had neither the courage nor the determination to deal with the Ustasha party for its petty political reasons and some obscenity votes in the elections, and so we welcomed the Croatian government's envoy to declare that there was no 10 April '41. there would be no Croatia. The prime minister has fenced himself that, but this man has not lost an act, he has not received any sanctions, and so our government has this fantastic double hypocrite, one European, civilized, anti-fascist, and for the internal use of flirting with the constitution and by denying victory in World War II. There is no power or will to be clearly determined according to the civilization's achievements towards anti-fascism, and the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia continues to be coquetery and permission of both Ustasha symbols and Ustasha greetings to the shame of all of us and our country and we consider it one of the reasons why this government must go and this assembly should be, this assembly should be disbanded and should go to new elections. Can I continue this other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108117	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108118	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108119	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Raukar Gamulin has been injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure, I don't understand that you didn't warn her. A colleague of Raukar Gamulin called the Croatian Bishop's Conference a Ustasha party, under the auspices of the assembly. This is very much said by my colleague Raukar about you, it is obvious to you communist ideology to this dimension within you that you are such one of the greatest, greatest tragedy in the history of the Croatian people, which you call the Ustasha party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108121	And that was your replica to Mrs. Devereaux. Gamulin and you get a warning. That's your third warning. You're losing your right. Next is the debate, final debate, final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108122	Thank you. On the contrary, the ruling party and the government are mixing these two things and allowing one memorial to turn into a Ustasha party, if it hadn't happened, why would the Austrian state forbid it, why? The Austrian state banned it and it is your shame to allow the ceremony in the presence of the bishop to become a Ustasha party banned by the Austrian state. But to sum up maybe this day is somehow, so a lot has been said, there are thousands of reasons, the reforms you're always talking about are simply gone, there's no educational reform, there's no health reform, there's no health care in debt, there's lots of problems, we're not touching the epidemic situation at all, and there's no reform of housing policy that's crucial for young people, especially for those we want to keep in such a number of ways that your policies have driven out of this country, which is a demographic problem for which you're responsible, the ruling majority and the ruling party and the government and the ruling majority and ruling parties. Have you made a sufficient number of kindergartens, have you made a sufficient number of homes for older and powerless, whether you were congenital and credible in 2016 when you wrote in your pre-election program a parent measure that you never applied, never at the state level and now hypocritically you have something to say about Zagreb. What did you do with taxes and tax reform? Nothing, this is still a country and a country ideal for rich people and too hungry for normal earners, not to mention that huge number that lives out of several thousand kunas a month. You allow there to be such differences in this country that we are getting closer and closer to South America. You have not shown the slightest, least willing to change the tax system so that at least a little equal and there is justice, that those who have more money in the state budget more, you do not have a shred of social sensitivity. You have brought a reform of the social system against both users, both the profession and the academic community, contrary to what you have nominally and declared advocating, which is decentralisation, you have centralized the entire system again. These are your reforms. Refurbishment, it's really unnecessary to talk about, all those two years. In which you failed to do anything and yet bring in a man who certainly won't do anything because he can't, he has to deal with it, he has a terrible problem, he really has to get out somehow so he doesn't end up in Remetic where he'll definitely end up because those evidence that came out in the Index investigation is irrefutable. This country is tired of it and these citizens are tired of it and all of this and much more is absolutely a reason for this assembly to be disbanded, the basic political decency requires that new elections be made. In any civilized country in Europe, that would have happened a long time ago. Here, thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108123	On behalf of the promoter, Dalya Oreshković is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108124	Comrade Bačić, I even respect that you are a faithful soldier of your party, whatever I think of your party, and I am glad that you have not given up an individual debate because through what you have spoken knowingly or unconsciously you have admitted that we are the opposition advocates that you so often like to call weak, that we are none, you have admitted that we have outplayed you in this debate and using your business rules that President Reiner tried to abuse them as you abuse them as you do, even now. Using this alternating right to appear on behalf of the club, we have forced you to listen to, indeed, 19 hours without the possibility of your interventions, everything that the citizens would like to say to you, not these 16.4 of your voters with how you hold us hostage to your corrupt policies rather than all those others, and others, you humiliate us when you humiliate us and our opposition MPs because based on their votes, we are acting on our representative duties. During today's day, the whole point of my speeches was to the humiliated role of HS, to the humiliated dignity and dignity of the most important state body, and he was humiliated because you kept your chairs, because you were not able and able and brave to perform your basic constitutional role, which is to control power and government. And when nothing else helped because you're constantly drilling into that your parliamentary majority is safe and stable then that humiliation became trivial, and as it became trivial, because of you, Mr. Deur, because of your release of Thompson from the constituency benches, because you spoke on the phone while other MPs spoke from this pay phone. And what does the Rules of Procedure say about that? Art. The 238th infringement of the Rules of Procedure, because the representative must not, in the course of the debate, interfere with his incursions or otherwise with the speaker, should not, and should not, by his conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the assembly. When I broke the Rules of Procedure and these provisions were called by the chairman who sat behind me, he gave me a warning, not to you, so you know what? That warning that can't stop me from doing anything like a medal of honor anyway. You know what? Our citizens were disgusted by these pointless debates, they were really disgusted, they were disgusted by these violations of the Rules of Procedure, but I am glad that today this happened because President Sanader did not show behind me that the chairman of HS, he showed that he was a common bully in power and constantly fueled that fire in the citizens and strengthened their desire to make you the first possible during your shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108125	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored counterpart of Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108126	Thank you. So, there's no point in taking this time on behalf of the promoter because everything we thought we said, now I'll say in the name of the club, so we think that this assembly should be dissolved, that it should hold early elections because this number of affairs that the government of the Republic of Croatia suggests that the situation for Croatian citizens can't be better, with this government can only be worse, and besides, the ministers who are the new choice of Andrej Plenkovic, who before they came to office, have become in trouble with proving their property and very likely they will also have to leave, and now we've removed these three and after the request of Mosta, we didn't have a wider reconstruction, but soon you'll get new requests for the impeachment of the Minister or the government themselves or the disbanding of the assembly, so here's the fact that our point today, it would be better if we had the opposition to have a point in the daily order to clean it and to do so. I'm just going to briefly touch one important reason why this government should leave, and that's a renewal. Do you know how fast reconstruction works the HDZ way? So in the last month and a half, 40% of the red objects have gone green and there's only refurbishing in Banovina overnight, so the objects that had the red sticker overnight green and there's no need for restoration anymore. So the citizens who waited a year for the removal of the facilities after they had removed them got from the rest of the ministry that on their home, on their facility there was a green sticker and it really had to be congratulated on the rapid renewal, you accelerated the processes on Banovina. Did you know Mr. Bačić that people in Banovina are paying abnormal wars and electricity bills and that we from the Bridge have been warning this since September that nothing has changed. HEP has just now reported that these debts will be written off, let the citizens come regardless of why the government has concluded that citizens with red and yellow stickers will be free of payments by 30.6.2022. they have been making an account since September, with the reason that consumption is such and that they do not see any mistakes in the system but simply have people to pay for it. Did you know that before the earthquake, people who lived in state houses as refugees after the war and for 20 years because they never wanted to give them a gift or the state never wanted to give them a gift or a ransom right to start handing out gifts to get rid of their property and not have an obligation to renew it, so you know how? They gave them gifts under the pretext of being able to rebuild their houses, when the citizens came to make a request for a renovation they unfortunately had no right because before the earthquake you weren't the owner of the property, meaning it's amazing what you're doing with the people of Banovina, how you behave, anyway what you're talking about, so our new representative Magdalena Komes, the mayor of Petrinja, you know what move she made, reintroduceduced the cut that was temporarily abolished in Petrinja, where the goal is to help people stay alive, to attract investment, reintroduce, so it's amazing, instead of taking advantage of taking advantage of this position that the government is investing money in the reconstruction of Petrinja, to help there because there's still sensitivity, no one will complain, no one from Dalmatia, or anyone from Slavonia, what Banovia is being restored and what she is doing, and your ruling. About the management of this team in Zagreb could agree, it might agree, but what you are doing, so it is not only incompetence but it is also eclutant corruption and concern for people, and what they will do in Zagreb, whether there will be corruption affairs as you will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108127	Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of the respected Dalia Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108128	In the final debate on behalf of the club as a weapon in a political struggle, I'll use it to bore you. The Rules of Procedure regulates the internal structure and mode of work of the HS and, despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure are passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs, therefore by the will of the ruling, the majority should not be abused in order to take away or reduce its constitutional essence. The reality of political life takes place beyond the constitution of the planned government's trio, and despite the constitution that MPs in HS do not have a binding mandate and vote personally on the fact that the usual president of the strongest parliamentary party performs and the role of the Prime Minister, and party discipline leads to a situation in which, through his parliamentary majority, the de facto subordinated to the will of the executive government is disabled and thus his constitutional role in controlling the government's work. Such a situation has a devastating impact on the democratic political and legal order and on the rule of law without a desire to distort the fundamental relationship between the position and the opposition or the right of position and the ruling to create and manage the country's provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to establish a better balance and enable the opposition to have greater influence in the control of authorities and to represent opposition positions. The essence of democracy is valid procedures. The provisions of the current Rules of Procedure shall not address key issues which affect the very core of the way in which HS and its key bodies are established. Due to the lack of clear procedural provisions of practice established during the constitution of earlier calls, it created a culture of political trade in which key places in the bodies of the Croatian Parliament are shared and determined in extra-institutional negotiations with the strongest political party, before the constitution and before the first meeting of the Croatian Parliament, so beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, according to these established political practices, and not on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately and when establishing this 10th term of the Croatian Parliament, the key positions and schedule of representatives in the working bodies were distributed on the basis of informal meetings and the calculation of those quotas belonging to a particular political party or independent representative on the basis of the number of mandates won. This turned the constitutive session into a protocol only confirming illegal agreements, in fact, the form of political trade between the opposition and the authorities. The lack of legitimacy for such an agreement stems from the fact that negotiations and meetings between different participants of the elections are not conducted in accordance with any prescribed procedure. The number and schedule of seats in the individual working body of the Croatian Parliament is distributed in accordance with the negotiating but lobbying skills of individual future representatives or representatives of their political parties, not on the basis of some selection and selection that would follow professional competence or personal political preference of the representatives. Such illegal political practices have become groundless provisions of the Rules of Procedure which provide for such a process of selecting representatives in individual working bodies. Keeping in mind that the Croatian Parliament conducts elections, appointments and resolutions in accordance with the Constitution and the law and some other bodies such established political practices and outside of institutional agreements, that is, trade policy between dominant political parties around candidates both in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and in other functions and public duties lead to dysfunctional and crumbs of democracy. The lagging behind in the construction of independent and efficient institutions has also become too much behind in economic development, and unfortunately it has had a negative impact on all other areas of social and cultural life as well as on the general decline in the standard of living of our citizens. If the Croatian Parliament wants to run positive shifts and reverse negative trends it must create conditions for changes, which means it has to come from itself. The current amendments to the Rules of Procedure play an important role, and this is our first task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108129	A final debate will follow with the name of the SDP Representatives Club of the Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the parliamentary majority's argument that it will not support our proposal out of responsibility to the citizens in the elections we heard. But just out of responsibility to the citizens in the elections they voted for us, we submitted this proposal. Why? The reason was also to remind ourselves of the opening of a criminal proceedings against three members of the government, and the conduct of criminal proceedings against several other lower-ranking members in the executive government. What is the task in such a situation of parliamentary opposition in any democratic parliament of any democratic country of the world with at least an average level of parliamentaryism and democracy, rather than initiating a procedure to call early elections, and according to our Constitution, a procedure that triggers early elections can be initiated by the government to resign or Parliament to disband itself or to vote for no confidence in the government. So, in the dilemma of the government's reconstruction, what would actually mean is an attempt to correct what we think is irreparable or the reconstruction of the parliament or the reconfiguration of the parliamentary majority, we have decided in the most democratic way to do what we have proposed today and very responsible and serious and systematicly participated in the debate, showing countless reasons why Croatia should go to elections. I'll look back on only two cases. It's the first case of restoration. Once the political practice textbooks in Croatia describe incompetence, then one reference will certainly be to the government of Andrej Plenkovic in the reconstruction after the earthquake in Zagreb and in Banovina or Banija in 2020. There's no better, clearer and more accurate definition of incompetence than what I just said. If there was nothing else, if there wasn't any of these arrests and this whole thing would be a very clear reason for that government to go away. Second COvid, covid crisis. Based on the results of the Croatian government's policy policy with Andrej Plenkovic, the Republic of Croatia is at the EU Summit by the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants and at the bottom or at the bottom of the European Union by the number of vaccines per 100,000 inhabitants. If there wasn't any of what I said, that would be a reason to discuss the election, and this government is gone. As far as other things in this government are concerned, it works in a way that you have a Prime Minister whose character and work is being kept in every way possible not to open sensitive topics that could disrupt his rating, the shift of ministers who are weighing the government in the hope of being forgotten as soon as possible, and that then we will wait for them to change some others. I think this government and this prime minister is a recordr in the number of his associates he mischosen. If that were the way Croatian voters chose football players, we would never have gone to any championship. When painting was to be painted in front of the hole with what fell, with the drone that fell to Zagreb were the first to panic over the alleged explosives were above the hole, and when it proved to be gone they hid in the hole figuratively. This parliament may continue until the end of the term of office, but the opposition will then continue until the end of the term of office, and after the end of the term, the government will be an opposition, and the opposition will be the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108131	Here's the final debate of the motionor, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108132	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The ruling majority today has through its main replicas and much less debate has shown a chronic misunderstanding of parliamentary democracy. The ruling majority today showed that it does not understand that the government in parliamentary democracy stems from parliament. And if the government is so fundamental, corrupt and bad, it doesn't work, and the ruling majority in this matter doesn't want to do anything, then the only solution is not to call off the government because then they wouldn't get anything but to disband that Parliament. And what the ruling majority doesn't want to do doesn't say anything about opposition, talks exclusively about the ruling majority who, at the cost of holding their positions and authorities, are willing to do anything, no matter how much it costs to the citizens and citizens of this country. I was also talking about the systemic problems that Croatia has and how the government does not solve. I'll only talk about some pictures, only some of the realities that the people of this country face every day, so let's start with the saddest. People who live in containers and who come with electric bills. And then there's this crazy, bizarre explanation of why it's normal and it's all going to go away, and the payments are still coming and no one's answering for it. The government that brings the Code of Conduct of State Officials today, but there are no sanctions for violating the Code. However, it is, in fact, exempt that officials are being treated by the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest and transferred to some kind of government couple body where, as someone has noticed today, Paladin will decide on Paladina. These are pictures of Croatian realities. So another absolutely bizarre one. Did you know that you cannot buy a train ticket abroad on the Croatian Railways website? You can't. Go to the website of the Croatian Railways, try to buy a ticket to any foreign destination to which Croatian railways are driving. No, no, he can't. If you click on the international timetable, you will be transferred to Deute Bahn. In 2022 on-line Croatian Railways you can't buy a ticket to abroad and nothing to anyone and it's for the government, for the Minister of Transport the most normal thing. And then play of the day, paradox of the day. If she'd spoken to me or the Ministry, we would've certainly speeded it up. This is what Minister Beros said today, and I will not speak at all about the circumstances in which he stated it. Because as Beros said today, he could say that to any other member of the government. And do you know what the message is and what the reality behind that message is? That institutions in this country don't do their jobs, that institutions don't exist and that a customer-related structure is created that actually wants institutions to fail. Because under these circumstances, you have to get to Beros, to Josepha Rimac or anyone else on that team and ask them to speed up the process. And my God, when they speed up the process, I guess there's some kind of reward for that acceleration. Willi Beroš and similar ones who today are willing to make such a statement regardless of the context in which she was declared, and the context is terrible in fact have turned our country into a society that functions according to the principle of halo bing as a brother. They turned themselves into public administration bodies, replaced the roles of a public service that should exist there and function to meet the needs of citizens and turned it into a machine. A political machine that grinds this country and this society, a political machine that's only there for itself, that wants to be there as we've heard today for hundreds of years. And those hundred years of loneliness will be used to constantly fill your pockets and ensure that in this society some live better, some live well and others who, by their own means, complete the sentence. And that's why it's not enough for one minister to leave, it's not enough for one member of the government, it's not enough for four of them to leave, it's not enough for the government to go as a whole. It is necessary to change the political paradigm and to change the direction towards this society, and with all due respect, it is possible only in elections where citizens and citizens of this country will choose not only a new team to be trusted, but also a new direction for Croatia. Those elections may not come now. We see, HDZ is firm, determined, we see, their coalition partners, some have called them satellites wisely silent until the moment they need to blow up their hand or press a button in their seats in the assembly and will reject this proposal. But it won't stop me or anyone on this left hand side of the assembly from trying to make any further suggestions. Sometimes it will be like this where we talk about failures in the functioning of government and government, sometimes it will be like that that we propose better solutions, as next week when we discuss the law on abortion or one day when we discuss a new way of calculating pensions in the Republic of Croatia. But they will be continued, they will be persistent, they will be permanent and will be there to show that a different Croatia is possible. Better Croatia. Croatia in which politics is there because of people, not people because of politics. One great statesman said in his time that it was time for people to wonder what they could do for their country, what they could do for America. Today is the time to wonder what we are as politics, but even more than what the state can do for its people. How to get back everything she got or took from them. With HDZ and its satellites, that's not possible, and that's why we need choices and will come. If not now, he'll come. The result on them will be clear. This direction that leads Croatia into self-destruct will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108133	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It continues, the session continues on Wednesday, May 11th, with a statement on the amendments. Here, good night, everybody. Session interrupted in 20.47 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108139	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. On the basis of Art. 247 of the HS Rules of Procedure, I propose we hold a united debate on today's two points. These are: - Proposal for a Decision on the Disbandment of the Croatian Parliament; Proposer: Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, Club of Representatives of the Social Democrats, Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Civil-Liberal Alliance, Club of Representatives of the Focus and Independent Representatives, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Workers' Front, Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly and Club of the Green-Left bloc; and: - Proposal for a Decision on the Disbandment of the Croatian Assembly; Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Do we agree with this proposal? Thank you very much. So we're going to have a united debate on these points. These proposals for decisions shall be based on Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. So just to clarify the rules, the first promoters of these several clubs of MPs, 20 minutes later, the Club of Representatives Mosta 20 minutes and then the debate of clubs that have 10 minutes and individually, of course, 5 minutes, as is the case with the fact that between the debates, the promoters can always answer the word. So, we're starting now with, but no, before that we have a request for a break, colleague Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108140	Thank you, esteemed president of HS, on behalf of the Croatian sovereigns, I request a 10-minute break to discuss this proposal. In fact, political apathy, indifference has ruled in Croatia for years. The cause of such a mental state of the Croatian people is clientelism, corruption and crime. The cause of such a mental state is the work of all governments to date, including this one, and the evidence of clientelism, corruption and crime in this government is confirmed by the state services, but I am also part of the Prime Minister who confirms by his actions that Marin Pilletić and Anja Simpraga are players from the bench, usually replacements for Aladrovic and Milosevic, whose doors are still open if they prove their independence. It means I'm the Prime Minister who doubts their integrity, and I put them in that position and chose them. The minimum we were looking for was the reconstruction of the government, but we didn't get it either, we got the replacement players. It would be fair for the majority of parliament to decide and call new elections, but knowing their work so far would be illusory to expect such an expectation. I once again appeal to all members of the ruling majority, including coalition partners to call new elections and that the Croatian people really say what they think of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108141	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108142	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 10-minute break in order to once again send a message to the senselessness of the proposal and debate in the HS on the decision to disband HS. If colleagues from the opposition who proposed this and such a decision had the argument to propose a decision to disband the parliament, they would then have convinced in that argument a sufficient number of MPs in the HS to then take a position and situation in which the parliament would be disbanded. In fact, by checking the stability of the government, by checking the stability of the ruling majority, certain acts need to be carried out by the half majority in the HS. We in the HS and Croatian public in Croatia testify that such a check was carried out 8 days ago when changes occurred in the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia by appointment of the new three ministers. Had there been instability in the ruling majority, had the government not had parliamentary support, there would have been a situation in which the issue of extraordinary elections would have been raised, the parliament's disbandment. But in the fact that, from the first day of this term to today, not just any act for which, that act for which the supremacy of all MPs is necessary is precisely to which the Government is appointed, but not in any other act that we have made in the House has not been supported by the government under 76 MPs enough to talk about the inexcusability of the debate on such a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108143	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108144	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club just to point out once again that such a synergy of HS is not a reflection of the will of the citizens and that the HS needs to be dissolved. Unlike Mr. Bačić, my colleague, who believes that everything that is important in HS to count 76 hands, I think it is much more important, that we in Mosta think that it is much more important to show people that politics is an honorable job and that it is working for the good of Croatian citizens, and not that in different ways, different combinations of pre-elections, saying that you have safe Croatia because you ate the crown, and now as a snake legs you hide the number of dead, and after that you have already in Remetic Ministers newly accused, but I don't know how many times the humbled governments, so I don't think the citizens knew it because they knew that such a meeting of Croatian Parliament would choose. And it is much more important whether we represent the interest of Croatian citizens here or we can count to 76, because I think that if people knew in Croatia that after the election, most of them would agree on a way to buy and sell who they were on the market, so I don't think they would choose them. I think we should all ask ourselves before exactly what we represent to Croatian citizens. That we can count to 76, that we can buy or sell or work for their interest. I don't think the government whose ministers end up in prisons is working for people's interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108145	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108146	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to find out again why we're actually here today and why we're looking for a disbandment of parliaments and new elections. The argument that counterpart Bacic has just presented, which is that the ruling coalition is continuously stable and that at no time there was instability in the coalition of parties that are in power is not Mr. Bacic's argument for your continued work. It is a symptom and an argument on which we can clearly confirm how much the political system and the political scene in Croatia are rotten because coalition partners who tolerate the ministers driving in police cars are one by one, who tolerate that they remain in the functions of the ministers against whom criminal investigations are being conducted, who tolerate the one who was taken to the police car being replaced by another who should have already been in Remetec, I am talking about Mr Paladin, who tolerate you from year to year to year to send a reform plan in which one is always the same and none of it has been implemented. This is a sign to Bacic that the coalition is stable due to private interests and party interests, and that everything else in this country is unstable. That the unstable economy, that our unstable energy security, our food security, everything else is unstable is just trade between parties stable. And that's why you need to ask for a disbandment, not why you should continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108147	Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we'll keep working. On behalf of the group of club representatives, the first one will be spoken by a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this morning we heard from Mr. Bačić an interesting thesis, and this thesis is about to say that those who do not have a majority in the Croatian Parliament should not actually propose anything. That the voice of the opposition and those who think otherwise in Croatia should not be heard. Because respected colleagues and colleagues are dangerous. It is dangerous for democracy, it is dangerous for the democratic order of the Republic of Croatia. And that is another proof why such discussions in the Croatian Parliament are necessary. Why it's necessary to talk, point out things that don't work and that need to be fixed. And respected colleagues and colleagues are our task to try to convince you, and this debate is here today precisely because we are going to put arguments before you, which will put before you the reasons why this Croatian Parliament, this ruling majority, and especially this government must go away. And then it's up to you to decide whether or not you want to respect the arguments or the interest. The interest of the party or most of which you belong. Now that's the decision you're gonna make. You'll bring it in next week when we vote, but today we'll talk about what doesn't work and what's wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each government's task is to ensure the functioning of the state. The task of every government and so on is to ensure that the state does its job. The task of each government and so on is to ensure that in times of crisis, pandemics, wars, inflation, price increases ensure a standard of living. The government's job is to take care of health care, education, social security, the fight against corruption. The question we have to ask ourselves today, and in answer to that question it should depend on how we vote next week is, does Plenkovic's government do it? Did Plenkovic's government manage to secure the standard? Did Plenkovic's government manage to secure quality health care? Has the government been able to provide good education? Is Plenkovic's government fighting corruption? Does it protect the interests of citizens and citizens of this country? Unfortunately, and I repeat, unfortunately because we all live in this Croatia, this is our country and the consequences of the work and disorder of Plenkovic's government we all feel. And so I say and repeat again, unfortunately the answer to that is no. Plenkovic's government does absolutely none of what it should do and what it does. Due to constant affairs, due to criminal proceedings by Minister Horvat, Aladrovic, Ćoric, Vice President Milosevic today, and before that by Žalac, Kuščević, Tolusic, Romec etc. 'Cause it's really not enough these 20 minutes to count it all. This government doesn't have time to do its job. Information on the work of this government will be found on the pages of "Black Chronicle" rather than in the section "Politika" and it is respected colleagues and colleagues our reality. Instead of this government and this ruling majority dealing with the real problems that the citizens of this country are dealing with, this government and the ruling majority are dealing exclusively with themselves, alone, and only themselves, and respected colleagues and colleagues of real problems are many, first of them inflation, price increases. We have repeatedly said inflation at this point is not only a Croatian problem, but the Croatian problem of how we will deal with that inflation. Inflation and rising prices feel every time they go to the store, when they go to the gas station, when they get bills for directors, fuel, gas, electricity, food, bread, milk, oil, everything goes up from day to day, the price of flour is at 10 kuna colleagues and colleagues, 10 kuna. Yes, we brought in the first package of aid and anti-inflation measures, but from the moment it was presented it was three months ago, and what was done in the meantime, what was the matter? For example, this week, Italy sent a major programme of assistance not only to citizens but also to the economy to deal with the crisis caused by war and inflation, 400 000 euros in support of entrepreneurs who are directly threatened by the Ukrainian crisis and war in Ukraine, there is no such thing in Croatia. Did we bring in a measure in Croatia that would, for example, ensure that the value of the pension does not fall, such as the harmonisation of pensions? At the beginning of this year, only a small part of the average salary, the share of average pensions in the average salary was low, by the end of the year will be even smaller. The real value of pensions under inflation conditions of almost 8% will fall radically. Where are the support for entrepreneurs affected by inflation, the energy crisis and the consequences of the war in Ukraine? I mentioned only Italy, 400 thousand euros directly plus a number of indirect loans, etc., in Croatia none of that will start closing jobs. And you know why there's nothing wrong with that? Because, for example, the minister who was to deal with the pensions of Mr. Aladrovic had a major problem, he handled his criminal procedure. Minister Ćoric, who was supposed to be in support and help the economy, read in the paper that he was directly accused of participating in an affair of serious billions of kuna, and then, behold, the miracles were left for fatigue, due to fatigue, not because he was waiting for the USKOK to knock on his door on one Saturday morning. It's a fight against inflation. Health care, 2. Covid crisis and covid pandemics. It's been difficult for all of us and I speak for myself, but I believe that many people feel that way, it's very strange when we can get into our workplace and into the store without having to put on masks, but it's only temporary relief. The consequences of the covid crisis in Croatia, the consequences of the pandemic are 15 thousand dead, to the number of inhabitants one of the largest numbers in Europe and the world, one of the worst results, and that is only a direct consequence. The increase in the number of diseases we thought were a thing of the past such as hepatitis that we have witnessed in recent days is an indicator of how badly we have done our job, and then, on Tuesday, Minister Maric comes out to all the Croatian public and informs us that health debts at monthly level are growing at 400 to 500 million kuna, 6 billion kuna at year level. It's a figure that's almost unimaginable, but that's reality. And you know what the worst part is? All of us on this side of the assembly have you on budget for 2022. warned that this is exactly the amount in the state budget missing, you shook your hand, and again we brought ourselves into the situation that the hospital's obligations are not being paid, that the debts are being accumulated, and that tomorrow we will be shocked again and surprised and surprised when one of the wholesalers decides to suspend the delivery of medicines to Croatian hospitals, again, although it is exactly the same as last year and as it has been repeated in many years before. Of course, how do you think this affects the quality of health care received by our citizens, waiting lines, and anything else related to the quality of health care? In no way, bad, catastrophic, and if there is a reform reportedly since April of last year, squats in Plenkovic's desk and waits for someone to deal with it, probably because Minister Beroš is dealing with health care reform rather than dealing with public procurement, and then a device that costs 4 million and 200 thousand kuna plus the VAT state pays 9 million kuna plus VAT, only twice as much and legitimately wonders where the difference went, completely legitimately and legitimately to ask how many other such public procurements are in the Ministry of Health, but also in many others? Instead of doing his job, another minister in the government has problems. The reconstruction stands, more than two years after the earthquake in Zagreb and a year and four months after the earthquake in Banija, and not because the funds are not secured, Europe has made them available to us, but because they are not responsible for doing their job. What did we testify to? That's the only thing Vangelic-Horvat-Plenkovic did. And today, people live in containers, and there comes to them a difference of electricity in tens of thousands of kunas, and all of them wash their hands and immediately. We failed to use the resources available to us, we failed to secure the European funds or the funds that we singled out in the budget, so last year we had to cut that part down because we were unable to use it. We're not capable. It's overly bureaucratic, complicated, stalled by people who have self-renovated their property don't pay off the funds that belong to them under the law. And why is that? Because he was being held against Horvat because he was arrested. For the first time in more than 20 years, a member of the current government was arrested, for the first time, for the first time. And then what do we get? We get Paladina, we get Paladina, and when you think it can't go up, then instead of Horvat, there comes Paladin, a man who every day from the moment he became minister spent explaining how he acquired his property and how he broke the law somewhere. A man doesn't have time to do his job as a minister of construction and care and restoration, he simply doesn't have time. A few weeks ago, he presented some kind of plan and five points, but no one knows what those five points specifically mean, but he presented it. And when a few days ago he was invited to a board and HS session and said what those five points were, which was the answer, people needed more time. It's a reality, it's a reality, it's a reality when it comes to the reconstruction of Banija, Zagreb. There are far more than a million people living in earthquake - affected areas, people being torn down houses, some living in containers, and the help promised by the law simply does not come, and it does not come because the government is not able to deal with it because there are more pressing problems, and these problems are affairs. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what about fighting corruption? Where's the fight against corruption? She's gone. To the place of one corrupt minister, the second is coming to the place of one corrupt secretary of state and only the actions of the USKOK are being set aside. Well, even those people in the state's attorney's office and the police don't get to arrest them at the speed that the new ministers and secretary of state are coming to, that's too much for them. The reform of the social care system, a lot of nothing. The only thing that's happened is that social workers have been introduced by a new administration, new bureaucracy, paperwork, even more time in offices, and tomorrow we'll be surprised that social workers haven't been able to do their job and be in the field with people who really need help. And we'll be surprised again that there's been some tragedy because the social worker didn't have time to intervene, and he didn't make it because you buried it with papers, and that's all you were able to do in the welfare facility. The green transition available to Croatia is billions, billions that in times of energy crisis could provide our citizens with smaller bills for electricity, and our society as a whole with energy independence, and that we do not have to worry about whether Putin will turn oil or not, and that we do not have to look for an exemption in Brussels. On the one hand, there are all kinds of people out here who are cremated or I know what they are, and in Brussels you're looking for an exception so that Putin can continue to pay for the oil that he's going to wage the war. And where's the green transition? She fell on the backs of Krš-Padena, fell down there, fell down on the Coric, fell down on the Romans, fell down on the number of characters who managed to turn that into a way to draw money for their pockets and green transition. Agriculture, they're giving us back our programs, they're taking away our funds. We're getting our programmes back because they're no good, so we're going to be late to pay off what's coming down from the EU funds, and that's going to be reduced because the agriculture ministry is unable to do its job. One of the reasons is for sure and constant presence of OLAF at the Ministry of Agriculture where it explores all those marifettelucas of today's, former ministers, directors, etc. People don't get to do their job. You know when you have to prepare the paperwork to hand it over to the police and the state's attorney's office, you still don't get to do your job, and that's reality and the Ministry of Agriculture. EU funds, where are the operational programmes? The budget period of 2021-2027, we were fat in 2022, where are the operational programmes based on which this state, this society should withdraw money from EU funds? They're gone because the gentlemen aren't capable. The defenses, two hangars we are unable to build and yesterday we read that I to the Ministry of Defence committed to building a safe in which the kunas should be kept when replacing the kuna into the euro, and they are neither able to build, nor hangar nor safe, anything. And at the same time, the police leaks information, and police officers get arrested. This country of respected colleagues and colleagues is unable to worry about the needs of its citizens, but not because we citizens of this country are bad when some of us force opportunities because those 200,000 kunas that Plenkovic has promised do not attract and keep in Croatia or do not force them to return to abroad, citizens and citizens of this country are extremely hardworking, working and hardworking people. It doesn't work here in Croatia for some reason, and that reason has a name and a last name. The Croatian Democratic Union and Andrej Plenkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the opposition is not the majority and it must be clear to you, so the chance that the opposition proposal whenever it is sent to the assembly in any parliament, in any representative body, is a small chance to pass such a proposal, but that does not mean that the opposition should not take it. However, the opposition must do its job, the opposition must insist on what is wrong, the opposition must point out, the opposition must offer alternative solutions. And precisely because at this point there is no alternative until the return of the term of office to the citizens and citizens of this country to decide who will lead Croatia in the period ahead of us, 7 club representatives submitted a motion for the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament and we invite you to All that when we vote on him, support him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108149	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. You have 31 lines, so let's take it in a row. First up, comrade Hajdash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108150	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, do you think that the great thinker, the ideologist of HDZ, a fan of dense cream juice actually cares about people in Sisak-Moslavina County, in the City of Zagreb, in Krapina-Zagorje County who for two years can't actually exercise their fundamental right, which is the right to housing, the right to security. Would this man I sometimes wonder if someone who was easy to do or is totally incapacitated after one minister who ended up in Croatian disgrace in prison choose another who had one of the most dazzling tours in the Croatian political scene?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108151	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108152	Well, dear fellow Highash Doncic, I certainly hope so. I sincerely hope that he cares about citizens who have suffered not only from earthquakes but who are in a difficult living situation for other reasons, because of inflation, price increases. I sincerely hope he cares, but the actions speak differently. And as far as the second part of your replica is concerned, I'll tell you, obviously, the radar was broken or never existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108153	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108154	We've already heard that the health care system generates 500 million kunas of debt every month. This does not drive fear into our bones but justifiably causes in us a chill that we will no longer be able to use health services. Why? That's because the health reform isn't on time. Because we're too deep in debt. And it's re-routing that circle, again in 2021, a post-operative treatment device overpaid 111% from 11.2 million overpaid from purchase value. We can see that drugs are overpaid for too much and too long a debt. Do you think Minister Berosh [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Is that why you should leave? [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful fellow.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108155	Comrade Vupora, please don't go on so cold-bloodedly and I invite everyone, there's a lot of this replica to stick to time for other colleagues. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Antolic Vopor, health debts are only one part of the problem in fact one side of the medal. The second part of the problem is the quality and availability of healthcare. The other part of the problem is the outcome of the treatment. The other part of the problem is that the citizens of this country are getting for the money they spend either through contributions to health care, or from the tax system. The answer to that problem was supposed to be health reform, but it doesn't exist. She squats somewhere in the empty table of Andrej Plenkovic. And today we focus more on the burning debt problem that could destroy not only the health care but also the general finances of this country, and we forgot that focus should be available and quality health care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108157	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108158	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow coat of arms, we heard here yesterday that this huge inflation that is already at our door, and it could be even bigger, endangering the economy in a way that we can expect the growth of interest rates. Growth in interest rates means reducing investment, especially private investment and what is most important is the threat of recession. How do you stand up to that? And the country's key instrument is exactly what you mentioned about EU funds. Unfortunately, the funds from the previous perspective are very badly used, and at this point we do not have operational programmes, so we do not have key documents for the new financial perspective. So, what can we expect? Does this public sector that is obliged, in some way, to compensate for a potential lack of investment and prevent a recession at this point, capable? So is this government capable of doing it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108159	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108160	The answer to your question is very simple. I will repeat again, unfortunately it is very simple, it is not because it does not do its job and because it does not do its job, we are put into a situation that inflation, which, I repeat, is not only a Croatian problem, is not only our problem, it is a world problem precisely because of the government's lack of work that inflation will in Croatia for the Croatian economy, for the citizens of this country have far greater and far more harmful than it should have. Irregular and disorder, and operational programmes that should allow us to make much more use of EU funds are, in fact, the best indicator of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108161	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108162	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. The State Audit found that at the end of 2020 Vinka Kujundzic, otherwise a friend and photographer of Minister Beros, paid 2.75 million kuna to work on an upgrade of 2 IT systems. The company charged 6 750 hours in just 12 days. I'm asking you, is that where people or robots work? How is it possible in such a small number of days to charge almost 7,000 hours? And despite everything we've read about this company, the company continued its business with the Ministry of Health and jobs is worth an additional 6.5 million kuna. Does that surprise you all? Does it make sense that HDZ's minister continues to run a debt-hungry health system, that citizens fear every day whether they can achieve their health service, and our minister and this HDZ government are not bringing any reform? It's just debts and affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108164	In all of this, I'm surprised at just one thing, how that Musk and Zuckerberg still haven't hired Berosh and his friend to raise their profit margin because neither Tesla nor Facebook are able to make at that level how much money they make when Beros conducts public procurement, especially in the IT sector, but it's not Beroš alone. Pity, let me just mention one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108165	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108166	Dear fellow coat of arms. Would you ever think that it is possible for a HDZ minister who should be working day and night to return to their homes, to end up in an investigative prison for abuse of position and authority because he imposed on his subordinates the approval of the payment of incentives to companies close to him who did not meet the conditions? I should repeat that Plenkovic had just chosen him and that he had not left because of some reshuffle of the government but that man had left because he was incompetent because he abused his position. Do you think it is possible that, do you think it is possible in the HDZ government and do you think Plenkovic can set up a capable and honest minister or is it still an impossible mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108167	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108168	Well, I don't think this last question should be asked at all at all if I think so. It is only necessary to look at ministers who have come in various reconstructions, which were mainly caused by external influences, from plagiarisation to criminal proceedings. I only mentioned some. Zalac, Tolušić, Kuščević before, today Horvat, Aladrović. So history teaches us to go to the wrong place as a rule come up and that's reality. So when you ask me if I can imagine what you were talking about, the answer is unfortunately I can. And I don't even have to, I've had enough to open the paper and look at the black chronicle and I read it there and I see it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108169	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108170	Thank you. Your Honor, it is not true that Minister Vukkovic has problems only with OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Namely, the situation in its portfolio is so disorganised, chaotic that Prime Minister Plenkovic himself had to order staff changes because of the situation and in fact the EU Commission's remarks on the strategic plan for Croatian agriculture. He is concerned that because of the poor strategic plan Croatian agriculture or Croatian farmers could lose a significant part of the European funds in the period 2023-2027, and if our Prime Minister Plenkovic is sensitive to something, it is actually his image of the withdrawal of EU funds that he likes to praise successfully. Are the Croatian farmers not on the radar at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108171	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108172	The arrival of either the Croatian police, whether OLAF, or USKOK, or the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in any ministry is not a problem. That's the result of the problem that existed before. And it's actually the tip of the ice santa on everything that happened in the previous years, and we often actually focus on it even though you would say, and there you're right, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, we should talk about how this works and the recent letter that came from the EU Commission, and it is related to the strategic plan, it has shown that the concept that we should grant support and ensure the strengthening of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture is completely missed. So, on the one hand, we have criminal activity, and on the other, a completely missed concept of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108173	Thank you very much. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108174	Mr. Grbin, a few years ago, your SDP and HDZ raided that the HDZ Constitutional Court was elected Davorin Mlakar, a person who received a commission from Hypo Bank, and on the port of the same Hypo Bank in Klagenfurt was falsely represented by another name. As a SDP, you pushed Andrej Abramovic through as a constitutional judge, who was publicly harassed by his neighbours. This is proof that SDP and HDZ are Siamese twins who jointly control the judiciary. When this is accompanied by your role in Uljanik and the damage you have done for Croatian taxpayers, and your participation in the corruption of your colleague from the HDZ, Branko Bačić, who kept black money in bags in his desk, then it is clear that your SDP and HDZ together hold the judiciary under control and protect corruption as a joint venture of your parties, and contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens. Tell me, what are you offering to Croatian citizens, you may be offering corruption of a different style than HDZ because the rule of law and equality of citizens are certainly not offering.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108175	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108176	I'm sorry, dear colleague Vidovic Kristo, that you haven't had a little more time, you'd probably have come up with the fact that I'm guilty of the Kennedy murders you've been doing. And as for what we offer to Croatian citizens in the fight against corruption, I will not talk about what we say, I will invite you to read the Transparency International reports, and so on which they said that during the last SDP government, Croatia grew in all those indices that showed the rise in the success of the fight against corruption, and then in 2016 everything went wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108177	A colleague of Vidovic Kristo's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108178	Yeah, he's hurt. 238. Because, of course, a colleague of Grbin does not answer the question but somehow laminates some of his half-truths and manipulates the Croatian public. The fact is that you have seriously damaged the state budget and Croatian government officials in the case of Uljanika, and of course you do not answer. Your lamentations are no longer believed, it reminds me very much of the spoiled child of the Communism of Andrej Plenkovic when you begin to praise yourself with nonexistent results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108179	My colleagues Vidović Kristo know that this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, so you get a warning. Here you go, colleague Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108180	Thank you, Honorable President HS. Dear fellow Pedja, why are you from this speaker HS actually lying to the Croatian public that you want to disband HS, when you and I both know that the clubs that signed it, here today not everyone is even here at the debate, there are no representatives of all these clubs. Members of these clubs are in no condition to vote on ministers to come and show their views on it are for the minister or against. On the suggestions you're making from the opposition, you're not as capable as the so-called. The united opposition gathers more than 50 MPs during the vote, and as you have 74. Why do you deceive the Croatian public that you want to disband HS? If that's what you want proof that it's not true, then resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108181	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108182	Dear colleague, this is not Serbia, nor will we ever allow Plenkovic to become a Vučić, Orban or someone like that and allow that pleasure to happen in this assembly so that you never, on the ruling side, discuss too much and measurely about the suggestions of your majority, allow things to go without debate under the radar. My dear colleague, if the MPs of the opposition were to resign, you know that, it wouldn't lead to the disbanding of HS, it would only lead you to 77 who make you the ruling majority plus a few chips, a few chips in preparation like Mr. Zekanovic here can enjoy without anyone asking or questioning them, if they won't, they won't be able to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108183	A colleague of Totgergeli's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108184	Well, my colleague Pedja hurt his ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because he has called us from the ruling that we are not discussing anything with and we do not know the measure of things, and he comes here with a proposal and doesn't speak at all about his proposal, but use this proposal to actually play a game, to talk about everything and everything, and yet he lies to the Croatian public that he wants to disband HS, and most of his members in his club don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108185	Thank you very much, thank you very much. My friend Totgergeli, you're getting a warning, this was a replica, and secondly, I'm asking that by our last names, we're talking to the MPs because if we're going to tell them names, then it's going to be a little awkward. Let's move on, Comrade Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108186	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Grbin, I find your motion to disband the assembly above all an insult to common sense, and then I find it a reflection of your political inflation, infatuation, infatuation. Infantility And why, at a time when the parliament has a stable majority, when all the necessary laws, acts and decisions are made to a stable majority of never less than 76 hands, at a time when we are facing a global crisis... [[Step: Infantility, thank you]] a ratio, with a war in Ukraine that suggests new and yet undefined global geopolitical relations, at a time when more than ever we need stability, seriousness and security, security of this country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have a proposal for you, if you can't work, if you can't work, you guys can't work, you can relax, reset, you've already fallen apart on SDP1 and SDP2, you've split up anyway, you're asking for a disbandment and you're asking God not to come to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108187	Thank you very much, thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108188	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you for showing us the strategy that your club is going to today. Is France infantile, is the man in whom Plenkovic swears Macron infantile because he allowed France to go to elections a few weeks ago? At the time of the world crisis, during the war, France went to elections, mother and sky fell on their heads. So if you're sure you're going to win those elections then show a little bit of courage that you don't have and vote for this proposal, if you're so sure of yourself, go out in front of the citizens and let them decide. Disengage!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108189	Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108190	Thank you very much. I believe the injured article is a reflection of the 238th and evidence of infancy. In his presentation, the colleague himself stressed, quoting: “The chance that this proposal will pass is small. ” And that is proof that you seek the disbandment of the Parliament and ask God not to come to it. This is proof that you are lying to the Croatian people, lying to the hypocritical Croatian public. Continuing on Macron. Who won in France? Macron. Who will always win in Croatia? HDZ Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108191	Thank you very much. You get colleagues Bedeković you also get a warning. Let's move on now. colleague of the Dark Taritash, here you go. A fellow Whiteman, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Grbin: I think Beljak has been raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure for some time now.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108192	The Honorable President was injured by article 238, a colleague of mine, saying that the opposition was seeking the disbanding of the Parliament, asking God not to come to it. I think you HDZ are begging God not to. Not because you doubt victory or not, but because you suspect that any of you will be more on the lists than Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108193	Okay. Of course, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure either, it's a replica or some bad joke, so I'm warning my colleague, Beljak. ... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] What? Is that it again? We have a good injury to my colleague Bedekovic's Rules of Procedure now, but please let's do this now. We're heading towards using the Replicable Rules of Procedure's injuries. We're on our way. There's a lot of people interested in replicas, so I'm asking you to cut it down a little bit. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108194	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe Article 238. Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Beljak, falsely lies and hypocritically insults everything in order. He's the one who's afraid of disbanding the Parliament, because the Parliament will never see. It is he who destroyed and dismembered the strongest and oldest party in some historical times, which is the Croatian Peasant Party. You destroyed it, tore it apart and tore it apart. You're afraid of new choices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108195	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Comrade Bedekovic, you are getting a second warning because this was also a replica. Comrade Beljak, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108196	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter I don't know why my colleague's pointing at me with her finger. What would she fight for or I don't know why this aggression? If someone broke up, I'm glad she admitted that HSS is the historically largest Croatian party, not HDZ. Thank you very much, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108197	Okay, well, she said a colleague at some point. She said she was the biggest in some time. Yeah, she did, she said. She said. But, well, whatever your colleague, Whitey, you're getting a warning. You're calling from a colleague named Bedekovic? Now the third one will lose your right of speech if you get a warning now. You're giving up? Okay. Then let's move on. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108198	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll have a fellow coat of arms with one lighter subject than the one they used to be. So, I'm going back to France a little bit, but more in history. At least Antoinette stayed famous for telling people when they didn't have bread to eat cakes. Although some people now claim that it's not exactly like that, but we're history in Chihuahua that it is. With us, a high-ranking official said that when prices rise, let the citizens follow, so let them buy where it's cheaper. I think that as an opposition, we should go with one proposal, and this proposal could be accepted by the HDZ that there are lenses that all citizens would get, on which flights up there say HDZ offers from then on the cheapest products in that and that trade chain, so that then our fellow citizens and everyone together are having fun and running from the chain to the chain and watching where the products will be cheapest because prices go so alarmingly high that the question is where they can end But this government doesn't care. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108199	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108200	The sentences should be bought where the cheapest is in fact all the indicator of the economic policy of the Croatian Democratic Community. I know that you would like the opposition gone, I know that you would like to keep quiet about things that happen. But when someone says a sentence like so let them buy where it's cheaper and when it's the only cornerstone of Plenkovic's government's economic policy, then it's something we'll react to, then it's something we'll talk about, then it's certainly something that when the elections come to the citizens' minds and it'll be honored with a voice or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108201	Let's go back to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow coat of arms injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. My fellow coat of arms, we have nothing against this opposition, but stay with us like that and keep making ridiculous suggestions like this. We will if you stay like this for the next hundred years in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108203	Okay, that's an interesting thesis now, but it deserves a warning as well. Let's move on. Comrade Bosnjakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108204	Thank you very much. In one presentation, you said that an opposition should actually be submitted to the proposals, and that I fully agree with these questions that you are opening, which are actually questioning the policies that are on the scene, I think is good. Although I must confess to today's proposal, of course we won't agree, because in these conditions I don't think it's an expression of some wisdom. I'd like a lot more for us today to discuss some of the package of measures that you're proposing how to fight inflation, how to actually fight the collection of energy and stuff like that. That's what I'd like. But basically what I was about to say, I think we should respect the constitutional presummation of innocence. Corruption and you and I can agree that it's very important for the whole society to fight corruption, but to label people, to find them already guilty, I don't think it's right, and it's actually not from the point of view of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108205	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108206	Dear colleague Bošnjaković, first of all, thank you for speaking the replica, saying what you are behind, not what someone else has prepared for you, and then there is an instant view of the difference, because you can be talked to metrically. And I have to say, we're also going to talk about a number of concrete proposals in the days that the SDP has referred to. For example, the proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act which speaks of raising an untaxable basis that should ensure an increase in the salaries of citizens and citizens of this country. We will also discuss the draft law amending the Pension Insurance Act, which provides for raising or changing pension coordination in order to ensure that pensions do not lose value at the time of the crisis, inflation price growth. We will discuss all this, but today, we will discuss today why this government and this ruling government They don't work and they have to leave. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108207	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108208	Thank you, Mr. President. You said you wanted to use this debate to make SDP's views known. When journalists asked you about NATO enlargement, whether you were in favour or against the blockade of Sweden and Finland did not state the SDP's position, you could not give a clear answer whether you were in favour or against it. Your representative in the European Parliament, Tonino Picula, said he hoped that the SDP would not be for the blockade of Sweden and Finland, but later, counterpart Bauk said he thought the SDP club would still go towards the blockade of Sweden and Finland. This brings us back to the initial question, the Croatian public does not know whether the SDP has or has no attitude. When the press asked you, you couldn't give a clear answer. Can you give a clear answer today, is it for or against the blockade of Sweden and Finland, yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108209	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108210	Thank you, dear colleague, for not having to prepare another replica or question. The SDP is for the accession of Finland and the Swedish NATO alliance. At this point, however, this topic has not reached the Croatian Assembly. Why? Because the two countries have not yet submitted a proposal, have not yet received an invitation, the invitation has not been decided by the North Atlantic Council or the NATO summit, and the Memorandum Ratification Act with the North Atlantic Treaty is not before us. And when that comes, you'll know very well how to vote. However, don't get me wrong, we are absolutely in favour of joining these two NATO countries, but why not give space to President Republika Srpska's initiative as much as anyone has doubts about it to see it deliver. By 28th and 29th. 6th time to be held NATO summit has plenty of time to see if [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It gets results more [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grbin.]] It's your party's policy. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108211	Here's my colleague Stier, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108212	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured because the question was whether you were if you could now tell whether you were in favour or against the blockade. And in your answer again, there's no clear yes or no, so I don't need anyone writing questions that's true, but you should also be a clear answer whether yes, must be accurate and clear. [[Intruder: At least someone.]] Yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108213	Comrade Stier, of course, is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the speaker can respond as he wishes, but the answer points to a certain position. But you're getting a warning. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108214	... Croatian Parliament, Article 238 was injured, the Honorable representative of the coat of arms speaks as Demosten says everything and doesn't say anything correctly so that I feel very bad about having to listen to him. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108215	Well, what you're feeling bad is really not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you'll get, now you'll feel worse, you'll get a warning. Here we go, colleague Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108216	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of the coat of arms once asked you if you knew where you lived, you answered that question. I don't know where I live. I expected this initiative to be carried by someone who knew where he lived. And what happens in Croatia? Your colleague Maras was smaller in growth, but he was braver, at least he had some sort of list he was waving with and said I had 77 hands and remained an anthological statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, show me the number. You can't even show the number of MPs who signed this initiative of yours, and today they didn't show up here in the assembly. You entered the Croatian Parliament with 35 MPs, and now you remain at 17. This shows your senselessness and initiative that has absolutely nothing to do with it but entertain and try to get one or two political percentages that would little, at least raise your ratings a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108217	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108218	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic, thank you for reminding me of my life situation, reminding me where I live, making me think, but I don't give a shit that your colleague sitting behind you is so uncomfortable that I also care so much about your wrong numbers and numbers that I guess by trying not to read what you've been prepared you haven't been able to remember. A respected colleague once again, the opposition has the right to its own initiatives. These initiatives can be good or bad, it will be assessed by citizens, it will be assessed by citizens, just as it will assess the way you vote, the way you raise your hand for any proposals your government tells you where you don't dare say a And then when you know how harmful they are to [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] the state. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108219	Please, let's just stick to the time. We have a request again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ivanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108220	Article 238 was injured, but here I wanted to help a little though in this discrepancy of my colleague's coat of arms, I added one, two more MPs, I apologize for that, in the end you won't be left more than 10, you'll be satisfied with that number, and everything else is a matter of mathematics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108221	But then again, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning, colleague Ivanovic. Now, let's hear from colleague Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108222	Dear counterpart Grbin, Minister Banozic has proved to be a very successful high school student of science and mathematics in Vinkovci, a very successful doctorate at Osijek University with some very interesting thesis, geographical. Moreover, he proved to be a very successful student and allegedly is well-prepared and highly graded at paid PR training. However, they did not explain on the way that military planes and helicopters should not be used for panoramic tours, so bishop cruisers could still be listed there, as they did not explain that it may not be the most important first to resolve their housing issue in Zagreb. He also left sight of him, so he was the only one who saw the bomb in Zagreb on the rocket. Who and how can Minister Banozic remind that, as he has resolved his housing issue, he has to solve the Black Hawk helicopters and their garages, garages for Rafaele and how it is possible that such a beautiful minister flew over Under the radar of Andrej Plenkovic? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108223	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108224	Well, you gave the answer yourself, colleague Jaksic. He can remind him of that, Andrej Plenkovic. He can remind him, he can solve it, he can do anything, he can do what he wants. But it is evident that he will not, it is evident that he does not care, not only for the Black Hawks, Rafael, but here, we also found out yesterday about Croatian kunas because Banozic is unable to provide them with a home for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108225	... All right, Comrade Matula, here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108226	Dear fellow coat of arms. Citizens and citizens often talk and think about whether we have reached the bottom. Very often it is debated, and they are rightly concerned about the inflation that is coming, the war crisis of inconceivable proportions, the prices that leap and know that the social, economic bottom has not yet been reached. I am personally convinced that we have reached the political bottom and when we are at the political bottom, then it is no wonder that the majority party is talking exclusively about one parameter, stability, because at the bottom it is certainly stable. However, I am interested in how you interpret that their coalition partners, but none are here today at this debate. How could that be interpreted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108227	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108228	Dear fellow Matula, bottom politically, I hope we've reached our mark because if you get to the bottom, then you've got something to push yourself away from. However, when I listen to distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with the exception of these two sitting in the middle, it is clear that there is still plenty of room to get to the bottom. And you know what's most interesting to me? Yeah, it's been almost an hour since I've responded to the replicas, and from my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, there's not been a single sentence about what their government is doing well. Not a single sentence about what their government does well and why the government should remain except to guarantee them 100 years of power. And that's the taste of it, just 100 years of government interest, and we can tell them that, so you won't, and their coalition partners are not coming. Show me your attitude. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108229	Thank you very much. Here you are, colleague Totgergeli, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108230	Thank you, Your Honor. And a colleague of the coat of arms has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 38 because we're not discussing the government today. Today we are discussing the decision they have proposed to disband HS. And about what the government is doing or not doing, in case the Croatian Parliament disintegrated or the day the HS disbands and whether or not this government will stay, Croatian citizens will decide, as they did two years ago when we were in the elections and they confirmed this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108231	Comrade Totgergeli, you are being warned, this was a replica. Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108232	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I also risk a warning, and I agree exactly what my colleague said, that today is not debated about the government, but my colleague, Grbin, is very insulting to most of us MPs who can testify to everything that the government has said and what we have brought here in Parliament and voted on, which is that average monthly net wages have increased by 1824 kunas. e.g.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108233	You're getting a warning. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108234	I thank Mr. President, he's hurt. 238 Rules of Procedure of HS. My colleague Grbin, a few replicas of HDZ representatives who were sent to you did not go ad-hominem, you said at this time that the right side of this assembly was politically bottom. Are you aware and tell us whether the political bottom is to take from the state budget a fee that does not belong to you or is political? The bottom of the line then say in your defense that it's been paid in humanitarian services. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]] an organisation that is not anyone's [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]] You know? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108235	You're getting a warning. Comrade Bačić, you are being warned, please come in. [[Intruder: We were very correct in this debate, and you landed on the lowest possible branches.]] Let's move on. Now it's Comrade Shashin's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108236	Dear fellow coat of arms. The biggest tragedy of this fasso you're doing here today is that you don't really believe in what you're saying or want what you're supposed to stand for. In your opinion, the biggest problem is that a reconstruction, or replacement of a few ministers, is the Government, and that's a tragedy for you, that's the biggest problem. I don't know if you watched the other night Real, did you see how Ancelotti changed about 3, how many players at halftime and then scored 3 goals? Win. Now, Mr. Grbin, this is a team, this is a government that scores, this is a government that wins, this is a government that has results, and you and this club of yours with this 13-player team of yours, I think right now maybe in some country league we could play if you continue to train well in the meantime. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108237	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108238	Dear colleague, this is not football, this is the Croatian Parliament, this is the representative body chosen by the citizens of this country among other things to control the government. The government stems from the majority that exists in this House. And it is our obligation, not ours, but our obligation, that when that government and that majority do not do their job and do their job as well as we are talking about it now and you will not stop us. And that is whether you raise your hand to our proposal or not to go to your soul alone. And you're going to have to explain to people who are going to get paid and a pension worth less than at the beginning of the year why you let it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108239	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108240	Dear counterpart Grbin, Minister Vukkovic and another close friend of the black chronicler, Mrs. Rimac, is headed by the ministry that has now divided me into 33 billion kunas of agricultural incentives, and this agriculture is actually producing less and less from year to year. It's another economic miracle from Plenkovic's government. And since the ministry has actually correctly seen that there are insufficient numbers of farmers actively fostering even a wasteful and unprocessed country, for which OLAF and the Public Prosecutor's Office have shown particular interest. Now, the only sector that's unsustainable is the Agricultural Payment Agency. There aren't enough tables to fill up with new bureaucrats. But that's not enough either, so the ministry is contracting private companies so that these newly employed HDZ bureaucrats won't get too tired. Now, Europe and Minister Vuckovic are in no way understood and we will lose 30m euros to the incentives of the farmer. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108241	Here's your answer. Comrade Voter, thank you very much. [[/Intruder Voter: Do you think it makes sense to keep such an incompetent woman at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture?]] Here's an answer from a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108242	Of course not, of course not! But they will hold because obviously from keeping her in a position that she is not up to where her job does not work properly have a certain interest. Whether this interest is purely held in power or that interest is much deeper and will be financially determined by those who are currently at the Ministry of Agriculture that is OLAF, and we will not be silent about it and we will point to problems both in the ministry and in many others. The problems of corruption, crime which then leads to a job that should be in the interest of Croatian citizens simply not being done. Because when you're preparing your defense that you're going to take to the BUSKOK, OLAF or whoever it is that's really hard to concentrate on this kind of trickery as it is to make sure that the support comes to the farmers who really need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108243	Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108244	Comrade coat of arms, you said this government wasn't capable. I wouldn't agree with you. I think they're just capable of, or their ministers getting a mandate to do exactly what they've been doing. I would like to remind you that Minister Horvat when he sent his associate a text message and one of your choices and arranged a clienteletist allocation of 100 to 150, 200, 2500000 kunas to individual companies at the same time denied Uljanika similar funds that would allow the Uljanik to complete the famous yoke and continue production in Uljanik. What he got the mandate for was what he did. He has indeed been given a mandate to destroy the last levers of our economic development, and that can be said for other ministers in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108245	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108246	One for you, one for me. It is a policy of employment of the Croatian Democratic Community one to you, one to me. So if there's anyone else in the food chain, let's let him have one. The result is that one who has no relationship, who has no acquaintance, who has no blue envelope in this country will not come to work and must go outside. And then we come up with a brilliant programme of 200,000 kunas for a return nobody uses, no one. And that's the taste of it for you, one for me, one for you, one for me, one for me, and so on from Horvath and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108247	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108248	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grbin, in recent years we have witnessed how the highly positioned personnels of Andrej Plenkovic cannot quite explain their assets. To me, the most secure in that is somehow the Minister, the current Minister of Paladin. Anyone who claims on the career of such a systematic tax evasion would have to read it in detail, because it's some combination of insults to common sense and crime stories with superhic elements stealing from the poor and, for the sake of it, want to be a minister with good prospects. How many stories about the success of Minister Paladine's miracles also tell us the fact that even that forgotten Minister Maric, Goran Maric, in 2018, wanted to remove him by breaking the contract. However, Minister Paladin has remained below the radar of Andrej Plenkovic. I'm not surprised, because he's so quiet, he's pale. However, who else believes that the entire Coopers remain below the radar of Andrej Plenkovic Do you believe? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108249	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108250	No, I don't, I really don't. Because when you read everything that's happened and all the shops, all the steps that have been taken inside can't be by chance, it's too much. That one move is suspected, that two come on, for the average minister in this government nothing strange, but all that there is in Paladin is simply for Plenkovic's radar a little too much not to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108251	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108252	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Grbin, thank God the opposition has the right to initiative and I see you have been elected leader of that opposition to talk about crime. Since you've alienated what's not yours, if you've kept your mouth shut, since you've been taking a lot of it for a while, what would you have to do if you had a lot, would you sign up for yourself to the DORH?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108253	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108254	Dear colleague, if I have broken the law and if you know it is your duty to go to the police and the state's attorney's office and file a report. If you know I've broken the law and don't do it, do the crime of not reporting. If I broke the law go, report me, but then answer why yesterday when you had the opportunity to regulate the issue of compensation for a separate life you didn't want to do it and why you left it in such a way that I who willingly gave it up today could freely ask and you would have to approve me because according to how it was written I have the right to it. It's the worst of it all, the worst of it all. You had a chance to fix something, you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108255	Okay, we've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one's a colleague of Bedekovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108256	Thank you very much, I think the president has been injured by Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, namely counterpart Peja Grbin, show hypocrisy and insults fellow MPs. We will remember that he gave up the fee for a separate life because if he hadn't done so, he couldn't have entered a city kindergarten costing seven hundred kunas but would have had to put him in a private place that cost about 3,000 kuna. So, mathematics, he gave up 1,000 kuna to finally earn 2,000 kuna. It's pure mathematics. and pure hypocrisy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108257	My colleague Bedekovic, this was a replica, so I'm going to give you a third warning and you're losing your right to speak. A colleague, Deur, and a colleague of the coat of arms, he answered the same thing. ... I know, but first it's Deur, and then it's you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108258	Thank you, Your Honor. Infringement of Article 238. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108259	Wait a minute, just a little buddy, back to square one. So, first, my colleague Deur, and then after that, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108260	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague, Article 238, did not answer whether, to ask whether he would apply himself to the DORH, and the reason is that, what you did, kidnapped, alienated from yours, lied, in the assembly, you were false, as president of the opposition, you are returning to your old habits of the old SDP and your government where you left the mess, all devastated, quarrels, conflicts, today you support The same way that initiative comes from Pantovich. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108261	You get a colleague Deur and you get a warning, this was also a replica. Now with a call from a colleague of the coat of arms if I've figured it twice No, he's retired. [[I'm out.]] Okay, well, then nothing, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure by fellow coat of arms, so let's move on. [[No, I pulled.]] Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108262	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. coat of arms, I'm watching you wipe the constant sweat off your forehead, and you seem very uncomfortable because you know that your proposal is not even on the verge of your mind, but beyond any thought. What I must say is that in times of never more difficult since World War II, not only for Croatia, but for all of Europe and for the world, you are calling for destabilisation, you are calling for destruction just because you are yourself. You are destructive, unstable, ignorant and not in your best interest of a better standard of Croatian citizens, not in your interest the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world but in your best interests is destruction and destruction. So since you have brought the largest Croatian opposition party into a state of decomposition, here's my proposal for you to fall apart really to the end [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and resign when you want it so badly. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108263	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. Time's up. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108264	My colleague Buric injured Article 238, paragraph 5, because by her conduct, she had deviated from the usual behaviour of HDZ MPs, to whom she preceded and did not begin her speech with these thanks to the great leader and to the achievements of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. There, that's the injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108265	Comrade Voter, of course this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was some form of replica, but I'm just gonna have to say it a little bit, I have to say it a little bit. So if you were listening to your questions now to your president then you would see that they are very similar to those whose HDZ representatives are asking their president, but all of this is, you learn from the best, that's right, yes, but you're doing badly. Yeah, yeah, fellow Voter, of course you got a warning. Let's move on, and let's hear from my colleague Buric about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then after that, you'll get hurt. [[And I'm allowed to, no, I'm not allowed yet, thank you.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: After that, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108266	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer to Article 238, when we talk about the achievements of this government, then we know very well that we never have a larger number of employees, and we also have a number of unemployed who are below 120,000 in this very challenging time. Also, colleagues of the Voice at your time while you were acting as a government, you left nearly 400,000 unemployed on the market. And that's your result and proof. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Your abilities. [[Intruder: Fellow Buric.]] Besides, You broke out 4 [[Intruder: Comrade Buric please!]] billions of kunas to the citizens. [[Please, it's been a long time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108267	My colleague Burić, please receive a warning and please ask everyone to stop with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure for losing the meaning of the debate then and we are completely leaving in the wrong direction. Here's an answer to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108268	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Buric, I am not sweating because I am uncomfortable, but because I am warm, and especially around my heart, when I listen to you speak and read your replica, read your replica, make one big mistake. So with all due respect, this is not the biggest crisis Croatia has been facing since World War II, but this is the biggest crisis Croatia has faced since the Homeland War, so I ask you to learn the difference between these two wars or at least read more carefully what they have prepared for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108269	All right, let's move on. Comrade Mazhar, here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108270	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Grbin, here I will try to please you so that it will not be a complete debacle and I will tell you that since the start of this government's mandate in the Republic of Croatia, the salaries have increased, increased employment, increased pensions, increased social benefits, increased GDP, increased amount, increased investment, increased credit rating, revenues from tourism. Taxes have been cut by nine billion kuna, unemployment has been reduced, public debt and deficits have been reduced, and the SDP has been halved, and therefore the Croatian citizens understand your anger and your anxiety.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108271	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108272	Thank you, buddy. There is no anger, there is no anxiety, there is only regret for everything you do, but there is even more regret for the missed opportunities that Croatia had in these 2 and 6 Plenkovic years, and it did not take advantage of them. And yes, you'll be right when you say, for example, that the average salary in Croatia in February 2022 was 400 kuna higher than in 2021 and you'll be absolutely right when you say it. 400 kuna on paper more. But what you're not going to say is, what you're going to keep quiet is that for that inflation pay, you can buy less than a year ago for the one that was on paper alone was lower. What about retirement? What about the pension that's going to be even smaller by the end of the year? You don't answer that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108273	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108274	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, so here I am, the esteemed President, the esteemed representative of Grbin, and I wanted to go in that direction that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic did in the past and this conference for the benefit of the citizens and gave answers to numerous crises and threats, and now we are indeed in one even bigger and indeed, because of these results that he has so far, by the number of fellow Members of Mažar and part of fellow citizens, Buric, we can certainly promise that he will give the right answers to this demanding situation. Of course, in the mandate, everything was growing, and clearly, unemployment was dropping, the number was falling, and it was already said. My question, how do you think we lifted the fee yesterday? A separate life would save [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You who wrongly and unlawfully used it? [[Intruder: Comrade Murganić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108275	Comrade Murganic, please, not just you, but others. Conceal the question to stop in one minute. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108276	Dear fellow Members, you are at the helm of the Committee who decides on the administrative procedure, open the ZUP and if I have broken the law use the rights that this Law makes available to you. Short and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108277	Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108278	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Grbin, here I am, a representative at HS relatively short, for a little over a year, and I've already had a chance to see more failed attempts at impeachment than any proposals that would make our citizens' living standards better. As a young representative, I am extremely disappointed that good authority, the good government of the Republic of Croatia does not have a good counterpart on the other hand, and it would be very good if the opposition made an effort to contribute to the growth of living standards with its ideas and suggestions, not to engage in attempts of impeachment that it knows in advance that it will not pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108279	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108280	Dear colleague, you said yourself, you've been here for a year, you've been studying, you've shown your will to do so, and I'm glad you'll learn in time that we won't do what you ask of us and how it suits you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108281	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108282	Thank you. Dear Grbin, remember the replica of HDZ representatives Totgergelija and Bedekovic. In fact, the question has been raised why we deceive the public that we want early elections. Let's get some things straight right now. Yes, there are opposition MPs who do not vote for opposition initiatives, so I call on citizens to follow the traffic light a little bit better where it is. There are also opposition deputies who don't even show up on the day of the vote, hiding like a snake's foot. However, this does not mean that the opposition is weak. No, there is not, in fact, every opposition representative, and not out of the ranks of the ruling, his own cheek. I don't mean you who are obedient, who are cowards. I mean those opposition MPs who are willing to be chippers, but citizens should take that as a threat, as a threat coming from the HDZ that is capable of buying more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108283	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108284	Thank you, colleagues, and as before you, colleague Matula, and you have shown one situation that those who should be here with HDZ are gone. They're not there to support them. They'll come to the vote, there's no dispute about it at all, but I guess they can't swallow anything they need to be here today and defend this story. It's not working. That would be a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108285	Let's move on. Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108286	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, it's funny to listen to you call the election today. You who are at the head of the SDP party that has almost half as much rating as HDZ's strongest party. You who our citizens think are 51% negative. You who are at the head of a party that received 222,000 votes in 2020 less than in 2016, and after that you succeeded 18 of your colleagues with whom you were on the same election list...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108287	Please, just, just a little colleague. Comrade Rasudiæ, colleague Deur, I ask you to allow your colleague to speak, we have an atmosphere that is really okay for now, the topic is exciting for everyone, but let us speak this and to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108288	...you who have since 2020 managed to get 18 of your colleagues with whom you have been on the same election lists to escape from you and your club, and have been in the party for over 20 years. You've managed to get that you don't have a single replica of support today. And you think that you would achieve some better result and you could assume the duty of leading this country. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108289	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108290	Then what's the problem? Let's go to the election. If everything is ideal, if the polls you are calling on show that 3/4 citizens think Croatia is going in the right direction, not sorry, 3/4 citizens think Croatia is not going in the right direction, then we are going to the elections. Then what's the problem? There's no problem. There's no problem. Let us go before the citizens, give them a mandate to decide on the direction and who will manage Croatia in the period ahead of us. Yes, I'll agree the period is challenging, the period is difficult and precisely because it's challenging and difficult at the head of the state needs someone who's capable, not someone who every day lists a black chronicle to be found in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108291	Comrade Jelkovac, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108292	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My fellow coat of arms, I would expect you as the leader of the opposition to be serious. You've hurt Article 238, because you're not only insulting us as agents, you're insulting citizens, you know, and you know what the cost of the election is. We had regular elections, citizens showed their will. The government is stable, and you here have pointless suggestions. I suggest you start getting ready for the next one. for the next regular elections. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108293	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning from a colleague named Jelkovac. Let's move on, Comrade Whitey, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108294	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Grbin, I must correct your speeches all the time about the incompetence of HDZ parliamentary representatives. I wouldn't agree if they were incompetent. Well, look at them, I mean, they're capable people who make anything out of themselves, of course. For example, Mrs. Bedekovic, who called me because of some dissociation, I don't know what she said, and here she is, and I'm going to Google her a little bit, because I've never heard of her before, even though she was a class teacher for 16 years, and she joined the HDZ, so she became the headmaster of the county, then the master's degree, then the doctorate, then the dean, and the councilwoman in the county, and the representative in the assembly, even though she got only 507 votes, then the minister, and again the parliamentary representative, and it was very loud. And now you tell me that she's incompetent, so that she's capable, she's as capable as all HDZ's make out of nothing to express herself harshly. It's just that they do it for themselves, not for Croatia What we should be working for. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108295	Wait a minute. My colleague, my colleague Bedekovic, please calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, don't [[I'll do it now, I'll do it like this.]] Don't be, don't go to personal level, but stop. [[No, this is a felony.]] A colleague of Beljak you yourself went personally to work on a colleague of Bedeković I let you go, you had a replica, now wait for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, before you were colleagues Mažar and fellow Shimičević. [[I'm not on my way.]] Here you go, Comrade Mazhar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108296	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, if anything is done or if it is done every day for the Republic of Croatia, then I think we should be proud of it. And I'm also glad that we're diametrically opposite because you've created nothing out of something specific from the HSS, you've become the undertaker of a historic party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108297	You get a warning from a fellow Mazhar, this was a replica. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108298	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague has injured Article 238 because he insults and disrespects his colleague. What's good about this story is that we're more capable because we're in power, if it's correct, then they'll admit it and say that we're more successful and better than he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108299	Your colleague Simičević gets a warning number two. Now, a colleague of Beljak, a colleague of Beljak, has already received two warnings, you will lose your right to speak if there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108300	That's why I'm asking you not to give me a warning, but seriously, right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108301	I'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108302	So, this is not a replica, this is therefore a criminal offence committed by Mrs Bedekovic, Article 238, whatever article, it is a criminal act of predication and disgrace. I'm thinking about suing her in court. It's an insult. So you can read me, read the Penal Code, and you'll see that you've committed a crime. I beg you, Mr. President, don't give me a warning about this. Because I warned you it was a felony. [[Employer: A colleague of Beljak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108303	Comrade Beljak, you will be warned because this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure Just please don't fight. [[Intruder: How is it not, and what?]] So, I'll explain it very easily. Continuingly, both part of the ministers and part of fellow MPs are accused of being corrupt, of committing crimes, I do not make warnings, so I do not make warnings. Now it's the same in an unacceptable way for me, but that's how it's done for you. So, you can seek your justice, just a little bit, in court if you consider yourself defamed, but you will get a warning and lose your right to speak. Please sit down. We have a further violation of the Rules of Procedures of counterpart Habian and colleague Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108304	I thank the esteemed president of this, in principle you said what I wanted to say. So, Article 238 was injured by the deviation from the usual behaviour in HS, so while the left side all the time, not only to the ministers, but to all of us here he calls criminals, thieves, your mentor says we're a gang then that's okay, then there's no presummation of innocence, and while colleague Bedekovic says something that's a notorous fact that's a criminal offense. So don't have double standards, don't have double criteria it's hard to listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108305	You started out well, but then you ended up with a replica, so I'll give you the same warning. And my colleague, Peovic, called in for a breach of the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108306	I'm calling in an article. The 238th demeaning of MPs and MPs was indeed injured here in this article. I am not in favour of personal and personal mud-popping, but really, my colleague Beljak listed only the biographical data of my colleague Bedekovic. It was not defilement or disgrace, and what she answered to him was indeed a disgrace. Let's warn and remind that HDZ is powerful Convicted party. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108307	I often warn you of double criteria, listen to my colleagues and colleagues in the opposition as they speak to the ruling and if you are going to condemn this way of speech then I would give you the right to rebel against what your HDZ colleagues say. But I'm trying to be objective and correct, so I'm not giving you any notices about the very serious insults that come to the expense of some HDZ colleagues, so don't expect me to do the opposite now when they're at stake. So you get a warning, too. Let's move on, Comrade Brcic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108308	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow coat of arms. Here I closely followed your presentation in a special way in the introduction, so here I kind of underlined to myself the two essential words that you later dismembered, and that's an argument of interest. Of course, this argument is indeed in one exceptional moment, times are working and that certainly the interest is not particular but one general common good specifically directed towards the most vulnerable social groups. I'm not just saying this in that Dalmatian that you're buying, I'm trying really to be exact, and the contribution is one of my questions to you. Here we recently had a theme about investing in preschool institutions where a billion and 600 million investments were mentioned, is that, in your opinion, the largest total amount of investment in kindergarten infrastructure and preschool education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108309	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108310	Dear colleague. Would it be acceptable for the government to do absolutely nothing? In some segments, it might be better if the government didn't do anything at all, but the government should do something from time to time. And when we talk about the interest of public and particular interest, I ask you what kind of interest is there, for example, in the software case, what's the interest in the flower business? Your Honor, Mr. President and Honorable colleague, Beljak, you may...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108311	Yes, fellow Beljak you deserve it I have done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if you think I have mistaken you have a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system today by this point of the agenda you cannot say that. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108312	Thank you, Mr. President. And Branko's up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108313	Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108314	Thank you, Mr. President. I first said that the proposal and the explanation was pointless, and now I'm going to tell you another attribute for this article. It is also very important in the opposition to show credibility in order to be able to take over and gain citizens' trust, and in this respect he would comment on you in the following way. You are asking to disband the council at the fact that the ruling majority is stable, it is interesting that as SDP president the moment your club fell apart, when 60% of your club members left you did not ask for elections on your own page. Do you think it's a credible approach to defend this decision here today about disbanding the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108315	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108316	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. If we were talking about the intrinsic elections in the assembly, then I'd tell you that your internal election process started two years ago and it's not over yet. Under your statutes, a new party leadership was to be chosen two years ago, you didn't finish it. But it's not an issue of HS work, not an SDP election or a HDZ assembly, it's a matter of your political options and our political options. But here at HS, we are discussing whether the government stems from the parliamentary majority because this is parliamentary democracy, whether it is good or not. We think it's not working. And at that moment, it is absolutely legitimate to say that this government is incorrigible and that only the elections can be fixed. You'll vote on it. The way you want it, I can't influence it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108317	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Now you will be replicated by your colleague Bauk. [[Smackback: But I can point to reasons.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108318	In recent days, one topic has reminded us among other things why this government should leave. Because this government does not implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Law on Abdition and the Rules of Procedure of the HS, because it has not passed a new law, because, after the Constitutional Court's decision, it has not given its opinion on our law and because women who wish to commit a legal abortion are humiliated in Croatian hospitals. And this helps the cowardly silence of a government supported by two parties who, in their name, have the word liberally. So when HDZ 1 and HDZ 2 agree as they had to negotiate about Istanbul, to pass this Law, then you can talk about 1 and 2, but to comfort you We're just one and the best. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108319	Comrade Bačić, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108320	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. ... Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrade Bauk, in Croatia, there is a law that allows for the termination of pregnancy. If you had the intention, the political will and the world-wide approach to amending that law, who has defended you for eight years? Why did you keep your mouth shut for eight years when you were in power? But now you're very loud when you're in opposition. [[Intruder: Thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108321	Very good replica, but you get a warning because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure What, what? [[- What's his problem?]] Second. Buddy Bačić, other No, I'm warning you, from now on, I'm warning everyone when they have two. [[Just so he knows it doesn't happen to him as well as Kreshi.]] Now, you answer to the replica of my colleague Bauku, yes. [[- I'm allowed?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108322	Dear colleague Bauk, but also dear colleague Bacic, because I cannot answer my colleagues to Bauku without answering your questions. The Constitutional Court's decision concerning the law on abortion was adopted in 2017.The Constitutional Court adopted the view that what is necessary in the 70s law is a change and has given a deadline for this, from, if I am not mistaken, 2 years. The ruling majority was then as similar as today, and it did not want to do so, however, is not only a problem in the law. The problem is that some doctors allow this law to be interpreted absolutely beyond what is being approached and beyond what is written in it and therefore we have cases such as those to which the Croatian public has witnessed in the last few days. But, dear colleague Bačić, we will respond and so today we will hand over 30 signatures necessary to open a debate in HS next week on an abortion law that the government has passed three years ago after the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108323	Thank you very much. Let's go to the last line, colleague Dreven Buddinski, please. [[Intruder: Suggest 3 years ago.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108324	Thank you very much, esteemed President, dear colleague of the coat of honor. All the things you've been doing in your opening statement we listen to almost every day, but running the government, the Parliament, it's not a small thing, it's a big responsibility. And you're already, I can tell you, in the first tide of your party staffing. So I have a question for you, how would you maintain the ruling majority when you couldn't even hold your own party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108325	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108326	Thank you, dear colleague Dreven Buddinski. Don't worry about the SDP, the SDP is here, the SDP is strong and will be even stronger. Don't worry about the SDP, it's not your concern, your concern is your party. Your concerns are citizens who gave you the trust to do something about it two years ago. Your concern at this point, and you're right, leading the state is a great responsibility. Your concern is that by acting through the club of attorneys of the majority, you make sure that the decisions made in HS are in favour of everyone in this society, not just some, and I leave you to wonder whether at this time you and your colleagues have acted and worked in such a way. Your decision, your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108327	Thank you, colleagues. We've come to an end with replicas. We will now take a break, though, given that we have been almost 2 hours and will then speak on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives Mosta co-worker Selak Rasdic and colleagues Rasdic. We'll continue, I'm looking for a break for myself for 10 minutes, so we'll continue at 11:30. It's 11:00. 20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Now, on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to representative Selak Rasdić and representative Rasdic, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108329	To begin with, I think this House should be disbanded because it has obviously already disbanded itself, and with the proposal attached, I see, agreeing, and the ruling majority is already acting as if this House should not currently perform its function. So, I'm glad you respected the opposition's motion to disband the Parliament and that according to what you've just shown us, with these empty benches, we're obviously going to early elections. Now I'm going to briefly look back at why they're necessary, although I can see it didn't take you too long to understand the lesson yourself. The Parliament, as such in this formation, no longer corresponds to the function of the highest representative body in the country. It is doubtful who else is represented in the first place, whether it corresponds to the political will of the majority and whether, given how and in what terms the ruling majority is elected and how the ruling majority has been drawn up and what it has become responsible for in the meantime, whether there is therefore such a composition of the Parliament still makes sense, or whether it is time for the mandate to return to the hands of the citizens and to give them a new assembly of parliament. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, for giving a confirmed answer to this question. We can guess which of us present advocates in the new assembly will be and what ratios there will be in it. This, of course, remains in the sphere of speculation, but what is certain is that unlike the present, he will have full and fresh legitimacy, so what citizens choose will be so. Indeed, after all these praises which we have witnessed in the past, what are you afraid of? This isn't leading to anything right now. First, it is questionable how much this assembly of Parliament is in accordance with the Constitution at all. A long time ago, the Constitutional Court ordered election units to be modified, and the recent census further confirmed that the difference in the number of voters in individual constituencies was already so high that heavy discrimination was taking place in the elections because the vote of citizens in some election units was worth much more than in some others. And it has to be fixed. And why hasn't it straightened up so far? Well, that's because HDZ's in favor. Furthermore, as we have recently pointed out, it is doubtful whether three Serbian minority representatives were elected against the Constitution or whether, with 2 from the SDSS in this session, a member of the other Serbian party was to sit under the law. The Constitutional Court will soon have to be manifested. By volunteering the timing and atmosphere of the elections that produced this assembly, they managed first to shoot down the turnout at only 46.9% using panic, lockdown and to God's rescue role of headquarters at the beginning of the pandemic in order to use the members of the same headquarters as constituencies and campaigns under the slogan Safe Croatia. Here, I'm glad my colleague, Habib, has changed his mind about disbanding the council, so he came here to defend the current assembly. It's not like you're afraid of being re-elected. Today, 2 years later, they hide it in public, and they hide their headquarters’s feathers in public as a snake’s feet, and the facts about the vast purchase of Covid equipment outside the Public Procurement Act and under the label that is still not removed, are completely unreasonable amounts of vaccines obtained that we now or donate or destroy despite the invisible economic situation in which our citizens are present and for which no one is responsible. And that we didn't even try to fight to have any free hands to decide whether we needed that amount of 80, 18 million vaccines and what we're going to do... Whether we will continue to throw and donate vaccines to obtain new amounts regardless of the needs and will of our citizens to use them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not a question of ideology. This is a matter of material survival and economics. What we invest on and on what we're from and what we're from. Not to mention the flower shops that received input information jobs overnight, all these facts will yet be established and will be held accountable for justice. How many more reconstructions or government refreshments can we expect? Instead of encouraging citizens to greater democratic participation and trying to increase the turnout of a people who respect and respect you so much for your interpretation and love and respect all your successes, by perfiding the introduction of an e-voting and also by a lettering vote which has long been practiced by countries like Italy and BiH that we know are far more dysfunctional than Croatia, you are doing everything to ensure that fewer Croatian citizens go to the polls because we know that your clientele is coming out, so with a minor response from other citizens who do not feed and dress HDZ increases the relative share of their vasals in the election result. And after all of this, therefore unconstitutional election units, the use of the pandemic to manipulate the timing of the elections, exploiting the headquarters for the political campaign, disabling the correspondence and e-voting to reduce the turnout, disabling and sabotaging of the potential referendum in order not to hear the citizens' will to manage the same pandemic, so far there has been an unprecedented trade with minority representatives who are elected on special lists. Exploitation of one right and privileges and democratic fluids that we have about the election of minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and they are elected in line with a drastically smaller number of citizens' votes in order to recapture the ruling majority, so you used it. Which, imagine miracles, when you wonder who is represented by whom, most who are de facto minority by the number of votes because the representatives of the ruling majority, so when we add these 76 or 77 hands to what they really have legitimacy, given the significantly smaller number of votes elected by minority representatives, have received fewer votes than the opposition you think you have the right to manage and which you are disabling from its right to hear the argument that you are here who have been trusted by the citizens. Has the majority of citizens really given you confidence? Until this meeting, there was a good democratic custom for minority representatives to wait for the majority to form and then agree with it so that they could articulate and realise the special interests of the communities they represent. But now minority representatives have been elected on special lists, some with a handful of votes and they have determined who the majority will be even though they do not have things legitimacy do so. That is how we came to a state where the ruling majority is formed from an electoral minority with the help of minority representatives. Then, in a further congregation, what has unfortunately been seen in the past is happening. What distanced our citizens from politics and caused them to lose any faith in the system of voting in general and that their voice could make a difference. I'm talking about harvesting. The voter fraud in terms of voting for one option, and then some of its stickers run across the ruling majority organised by the electoral minority and minority representatives. Indeed, the fundamental question is, who here represents most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Release the ideology, release your own attitudes, let's just look at the mere numbers. The people say, "What a coat of arms does not correct time," I add, which can only be congenital, anti-constitutional, illegal, commercial, harvested by bad and criminal fruits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108330	He will now continue his colleague Raspadic. Here you go. Here, please spare your fellow Dedication of witty throws, be insolent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108331	You'll have a chance later for the replica and for the answer, so refrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108332	My colleague Rudic, what he did to my colleague Deur happens all the time, nothing was scary, you have 9 minutes and 57 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Updating on this people's saying, "What a coat of arms doesn't make right", I will now move on to the fruits of the government that was formed after the elections that were held in the way we heard and most of the people who were marred by the minority plus the representatives of minorities also heard how. What are the fruits, and what are the fruits? After more than two years of earthquakes in Zagreb and a year and a half since the Banovina earthquake, nothing has been restored. It worked faster and better during August Shenoa after that earthquake in the 19th century. It's like an orchestra that's constantly being tuned, and it can't get through, and after one conductor ended up in prison, we've got a new young Shostakovich, I've been calling him out of a mile. Nothing has been restored, only the government has been restored, so instead of the Minister of Construction Horvat who ended up in Remetinco in prison in front of whom I propheticly invited Plenkovic to the meeting because there the HDZs will feel at home, as if at home, and a lot of the teams are already there, today I see that the comb and the Ministry of Health that Willi Beros is very airy, instead of the fall of the government and the new elections after Horvat's fall we got Minister Paladin. A man who is in an unsettled conflict of interest because he and the minister of state property, who owns 10% of the project in the Kukarim, and his ministry will decide on a concession that has been doing nothing for seven years in an attractive location, so he also decides on his ownership. What's he doing? Go to the bathroom while he decides, exclude or sell his share, so of course he can get a higher price because he will decide what will happen to that concession. So, you chose a man in an indecisive conflict of interest and you chose a securely unverified long-term partner of unclear Russian capital. And what may be the worst and what we've seen this week is definitely the man who still doesn't have a plan to speed up the reconstruction that supposedly led him to it, not Stephen Curaj or some other who refused the offer. But that's not the end, after the investigation of Minister Aladrovic was launched, he left. I watched them here, and I tried to express their melancholy with the lyrics "We are like autumn on the trees of the list", the three leaves that were sitting there flew away, today this is how Minister Beroš shakes, and some more will see what happens. Ode Aladrovic, but your partner Radimir Cacic did not come out of the ruling coalition as he publicly promised 22. He said if another investigation was launched that he could no longer support the ruling majority, but there he remains constant towards but the ravine of what an old song would say. Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic, who, despite his presummation of innocence, also went on to become too heavy a burden for the government. Why didn't the government respect the presummation of innocence? The man's only been charged. There's been an investigation. Maybe he's not guilty. But look wonders are a burden for the government, but it's not bad for the council, so you brought it back to our assembly because the face of HS is more thick and the stomach is more resistant than the government's. The same goes for former Minister Coric, who got tired of being tired of Jasmina Stavros and Voika V in the same-named songs "Tired", and sent him to rest in the CNB. The burdens directly and waved his emails at the first co-worker arrested in the Krš-Padjene affair, so as Milosevic became unworthy of the government, a moral burden, but I guess given the CNB's reputation, he is quite similar to that institution. About the arrest of Plenkovic's close associate, Gabriela Žalac and Mr. Petrica, that we do not even talk about it because the arrogance has become so much that it pulls out of the eu funds even though it is known that there is strong control, so we can only expect what was done in the purchase of covid equipment that you have placed under the label secretly and past the Public Procurement Act. He'll get it on the wallpaper, too. Maybe Mr. Berosh knows something today. The day before yesterday, a complete debacle of Croatian foreign policy took place, the Croatian government did not act as a sovereign state, a full member of the EU and NATO pact, and did not use any mechanism to intercede with our allies in order to address the problem of Croatians' inequality in BiH, which was imposed by changes to the electoral law two decades ago by the same allies. It is regrettable that after a year of dragging the Croats into the nose-finding negotiations, nothing has been achieved that Wednesday's elections were called yesterday under the old anti-constitutional law, and that Andrej Plenkovic, as a great success, points out that he put a sentence into the EU strategic compass on the constituent nations standing in Annex 4 in the BiH Constitution. You're not gonna make it. Well, in October, when the heads of Croats are politically decapitated in BiH are caught by a strategic compass. The decision of Oreskovic's government is still not being implemented and has not been met once, and has had to be met four times a year, so a 24-fold meeting with a body to monitor Serbia's progress in negotiations with the EU. Not even the Vukovar hospital records were returned, let alone anything else. But that's why the government unspeakably attaches Serbia's Vučićeva to the EU, while Croatian Ambassador to Belgrade Hidajet Bištevic publicly clashed with Croatian community leader Tomislav Žigmanov, who in recent elections managed to enter Serbia's parliament, not thanks to the assistance of the Croatian government but despite Hidajet Bištovic and his obstructions, he spoke publicly. In short, crime, nepotism, incompetence, unhappiness, not renewal within the country, but cowardice, serviality, treason in foreign policy. So I repeat, that the coat of arms is born time does not correct. This majority has never represented most voters, even in such a coronal election with a headquarters that was attached to the campaign by Willie Beros, and even less, it represents today after all they have afforded Croatian citizens over the last two years. You like to call on your electoral legitimacy and your polls, you're strong, you break down in polls, great. Let's disband the council, call the election, and let's see this great love and trust of the citizens to you. I hope the Croats are not so ungrateful as not to see what the government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic has done for them all these years and that they will not be granted you even more trust, and we will look only at the TV after the election. So make it easy for us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108334	Thank you, too. I will now invite my colleague Selak Rasdic to respond to the replicas, there are 8 for my colleague and 2, 4, 7 for my colleague Rasdic. So, let's take the turn of the first order of fellow Milanovic litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108335	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I'd just like to look back before here may be the topic for the debate at Parliament's presidency I wanted to and colleagues I'm going to break up this line, but here I'm not able to at this point, so maybe you should consider doing this by some option to make it when the time is divided that both of these replicas can be raised. I was actually going to ask you about direct democracy. This is something that the whole world tends to do only in Croatia big parties of this color and referendums have always been a thorn in the eye of both this government and the previous HDZ governments, so I am interested in your opinion on the level of democracy in Croatia and the level and direct democracy you have just discussed, especially around national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108337	The democratic system does not mean ideal editing, but it is certainly the least evil in selecting existing systems and therefore we have chosen for democracy. What is particularly interesting is the debate on democracy that we have when we are talking about the way we are going to decide on referendums in the future. So the left, which declares itself precisely for direct democracy and promotes as one that is closer to the people and wants a greater participation of citizens, is suddenly the most concerned about how to limit access to referendums by these same citizens, which is the largest form of the greatest democracy. And here we see a certain hypocrisy. We see that you seem to be making referendums as a direct democratic tool in Croatia impossible, and we at the Most stand for the exact opposite. To reduce the number of signatures required for writing which is necessary for a referendum to be called in order to go in line with democratic European fluids. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108338	Thank you very much. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108339	Thank you. Dear fellow Minister Rasudiæ I am here yesterday, and I will be referring to my colleague, so on the referendum statement of the citizens, I asked the Vice-President of the Assembly what was sent to the Constitutional Court by the Croatian Assembly, as Mr Šeparović said I could not make a decision within the legal deadline, and this should be by tomorrow, the day after the month because he sent them something later. What does the President of the Croatian Parliament do, past the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament and why is he assisting in suffocating citizens' referendum initiatives? And that is the reason for the disbandment of the assembly to move Gordan Jandrokovic from this position and for the new elections, not only this crime we could hear a lot about from your speeches, from the speech of colleagues who had previously spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108340	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108341	The first thing I want to point out is that as soon as they can't make the decision, they know what decision they should rightly make, which is that the referendum must be called, but also politically, because of the various pressures that come from the ruling majority's ranks, they must avoid. So that's an unequivocal conclusion after this delay. Secondly, of course we have the right to know what is secretly coming from the Croatian Parliament whose component we are to the Constitutional Court in order to disable this same referendum, and really isn't it enough for us to have the highest threshold in Europe of 10% in order for the referendum to be called into the procedure at all at all, but when it is by some miracle that you must continue to work on sabotaging this same referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108342	Let me just say to appease my colleague Grumo, so nothing secret has been sent, all the records from the Committee's session, your letters, everything related to your request for a referendum have been sent to the Constitutional Court. So in the first phase we delivered a number of documents, they asked for everything else and a few days after that first package of documents we sent others. So there's nothing secret, everything is verifiable, you can see on the record that went to the Constitutional Court. But you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108343	Yes, Article 238 was injured, so I don't know how discussions with the board affect the Constitutional Court's decision. Is it possible Miroslav Šeparovic wants to hear what Branko Bacic said, perhaps they haven't seen each other long ago to see what Branko Bacic was saying on the boards so they can make a decision. So this just shows how far the Constitutional Court is on the remote control and how their decisions have nothing to do with the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108344	I don't know why my colleague, or the President of the Constitutional Court, asked for those minutes. He may have been interested in what you were saying, and maybe being a colleague of Bacic, I don't really know, but the Constitutional Court asked and we delivered it to him, so it's nothing controversial. But I have to give you a warning, unfortunately, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Troscott, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108345	Dear colleagues, Selak Raspadic. Here are the last days I see that the external media are also transferring the European Parliament's 2016 research. And that conservative figure that unfortunately the monetary value of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is 60 billion kuna a year, it's some maybe 15 Peljeka bridges going to corruption. So here's what you're thinking, yes, and here's what's finally a conservative method. That's $10 billion, maybe even more in today's course, maybe even 70 billion, that's one third of Croatia's budget. So imagine what our health system would be like if that money were gone, how many planes we might have to defend our skies and how we might have a better education system that money per independent European Parliament body does not amount to $10 billion, respectively. 60 billion kuna. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108347	Given this fact, given that the government's reconstruction took place on our initiative precisely because of the various USKOK investigations, it is indeed cynical to listen to HDZ colleagues who are standing up here talking about how the elections could cost us dearly, that they are a huge financial cost to this country. They may be the cost of this power because they would otherwise share the money among themselves, but the biggest cost for Croatian buildings is precisely the same corruption that brings millions to them at the annual level. So it doesn't cost us the election, it costs us the maintenance of the corrupt government. And if we are talking about conservative assessments, we should bear in mind that in Croatia, since all medical supplies are the most money that has ever been spent past public procurement and under the authority that this corruption is yet to surface.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108348	Thank you. Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108349	Thank you. Dear MPs, Selak Raspadic. I've been listening very carefully to your speech, and here's only a short time to narrow it down. For the first three minutes and 43 seconds, you were in the spirit of today's motion to disband HS, so you questioned the assembly's composition whether it was in accordance with the constitution or not, whether the electoral law is in accordance with the constitution, to which it is in favour, whether minority quotas are also in line with the constitution and who need them. And then after three minutes and 43 seconds, you turned to the classic bridge turning chicken upside down, demeaning the government's work, and even you even set math laws as questionable because by you, the minority is bigger than most, and then at 10.00 you handed the word to your husband to Mr. Rasputic. What I was about to say, how dramatic you are You will be in opposition for two more years. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108350	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108351	It is nice that counterpart Brkan knows that we will only be in opposition for two more years and that he is already aware that after that we are coming to power and I am glad that HDZ has informed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And as for this writing of the timing of my speeches, you're just flattering me, keep up the timing and sentences, maybe you'll learn something, it'll take you two years to go to the opposition, maybe use a few tricks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108352	But a colleague of the Brkans was looking for a breach of his rules of procedure, so we'll see what he...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108353	Thank you. Mrs. Prosecution has been injured by an officer. In 238, I forgot to say in the tenth minute your husband took the floor and then immediately at the beginning to declare himself psychic, and his announcements prophetic and continues with the bridge. You are probably calling for new elections because you are counting on third luck, twice after the parliamentary elections you entered the government with HDZ twice you were expelled. You're counting on a third time, maybe we should stick around.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108354	You're getting a warning from a colleague, Brkan, because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108355	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Rasdic. So I fully understand your need as an opposition to criticise, that you are trying in every way possible to reduce the results of this government that is really dealing with all the difficulties in this challenging time in the best possible way. But I don't really understand that you don't realize that with your attitudes like this, with this kind of criticism, there's really nothing really good about you in this country. You're just losing credibility. You just said that people are moving away, that people are moving away from politics. That's exactly the kind of attitude you take away people from politics. Are you aware, did you hear that our men were now carrying oil to Germany after Easter? That one Germany, from now on you can buy at the oil store. When you saw somewhere in Croatia that anything was missing from the goods, from the food, from the fuel, from the heating, anything. So give it to me once, Admit it, something's good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108356	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the reply to the replica, colleague Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108357	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, you insult all of us MPs who are very well aware of this, so there is no oil in the shops in Germany, and in Croatia it is not. You know why? In Croatia, few households can afford to buy from their salary oil supplies for a year. A little bit. You can do it. In Croatia, I can't, but you're not aware that most retirement families and households can buy 1 litre of oil per month And it can't be 10, so you've got enough oil. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic, colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108358	My colleague Bencic, a very creative attempt to explain why there is no oil shortage in Croatia, but it is a reminder because it was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Replica response, colleague Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108359	Here, you say there's oil on the shelves. And even if it were to open the door for us to see how many of them are in your wetlands. I think it's a real question that interests the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and when you talk about reducing results, I can only tell you one thing. There's no shrinking because the results don't exist. Two key problems Croatia has encountered over the past period, pandemics and earthquakes, 0 renovations, one of the largest number of deaths in Europe. So, from me, it would be a creative attempt to bring you to a positive zero with your results, and to reduce something that doesn't even exist can't exist anyway, and when you open the door of your pantyhose, I don't know, but it seems like the BOOK might do it for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108360	Comrade Habian, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108361	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you have called me directly in your presentation twice, which shows me that I am obviously very dear, I have not arrived at the beginning of your presentation because the president has set a rather short break for lunch, so I apologized, but I am touched by your concern that you are not sure whether I will enter HS again, however, I have been touched by your statement to one daily newspaper that you and your husband, Mr. Rasudic, Bruce Lee, have been living much worse recently since you entered politics, that your incomes have fallen greatly. So now I'm interested in this whole situation of yours and the whole of this... The performance and this proposal of yours, how does it all fit you together? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No more 5th day, no more, how do you say easy money in HS, so how are you going to vote ultimately for this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108362	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108363	As for my husband, he learned in time how to fight in the dragon's nest because he probably anticipated that he would come here to the Assembly where HDZ is in most of which a hero could still shoot down. And as far as the second part of your question is concerned, I fully understand that from the perspective of the HDZ someone unusually gets into politics, and then his incomes fall because your account is clear. Whoever enters politics, there is, not only to gain it, but to secure themselves and all the next generations, so I can only express my understanding of your surprise that someone's income wasn't a priority when he chose whether to enter politics. From the perspective of one HDZ, that's really amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108364	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108365	Thank you, Honorable President, Honorable Representative Selak Rasdic, do you hold more to left-wings, Nina or right-wing men? The leftist who built civil Bosnia in BiH, where the Croats bled without knowing it belonged to that people. Today, a patriot from Pantovich, a right-wing man, full of emotions that he shows in the fifth day towards his people, what are you doing here in the next internal elections of the Mosta, him or Petrov? What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108366	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108367	You'd better take care of your own choices because as far as I can tell, they're already under way, so the heirs know how to secure their positions, and as far as we're concerned, things are always simple for us because we can agree. In the Bridge unlike HDZ, no one has ever worked on a colleague's head and it will never happen, and what is happening to you right now is clear to everyone, given the signals that come from your own camp so promote a little bit of Slavonia and other parts of Croatia and ask them what they think of the current leadership. And as for everything else, my husband was always the same, it's familiar to everyone, except here I am, little and sad and smiling that you can't dig up any corruption affair so you're stuck with Bruce Lee, you're still holding on to your dragon's nest, so Bruce Lee probably never was a hero in your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108368	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you still have one replica, so don't leave. Here you go, colleague Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108369	Thank you, Your Honor. 238. Art., ma'am. Respected MPs, I didn't mention Bruce Lee at all, whether he would be some famous actor, it's now your business to you or your husband. I asked just because there was a war in Mostar, BiH, I asked Nina left-handed, not knowing her people or the suffering that was happening today in the mentorship of time today from Pantovich, which is the difference you hold Nino to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108370	Thank you, colleague Deur, but this wasn't an injury, this was a replica and some kind of query, so I have to give you a heads-up. He will now be replicated by his colleague Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108371	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleague, here's one from Slavonia. I expected a lot more from you. Peja Grbin, he doesn't know where he lives, and it was perfectly natural that he wouldn't know, this one, answer, but we even went to your hand. On the fifth day of the week, we hold a parliamentary debate. The only ones who benefited from the fifth day are you and your husband, then Croatian television was the best TV in the world, it was not regimeal. You hugged her, you kissed the same phone booth about three, four months ago, you said enough of her, no more, no more, we can't go on. The only thing we've come up with from that policy of yours is that Nicole Grmoya will be the new chief of police who will beat and beat anyone who won't approve his mandates with a public notary. It's the only thing that I've ever, in these two years, been articulating from the entire bridge policy that you and this team are leading on this right hand side of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108372	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108373	If someone had told me that there were so many fans on Day 5 on the right side of the assembly and that you'd all been following it so much that you'd miss it so much, I would never believe it. Thank you for that, I hope that you enjoy the same debates that you can follow several times a week, and as far as the policies we stand for, dear colleague, I personally, if we look at statistics, the most active parliamentary representative, you can also follow all the legal proposals, if you are interested in the content at all, as well as all the discussions in which I participated. But since you're not interested in content, the only thing you really care about is when there's a potential crackdown. Because you want to portray the opposition as destructive, but the situation is very different, look at all our activities, and we'll see who's really doing something, and who's just getting away with it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108374	Thank you very much. Now I call on my colleague Rasputic, he has seven replicas. The first is Comrade Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108375	Thank you, President-in-Office, dear colleague Rasdic, if we leave all the relevant facts that are listed and will be indicated why HS should be disbanded, I will ask you one other question. It's never good in life to generalize. I personally know that there are colleagues in HDZ who call HDZ's return to valuable roots essentially what they were. On the other hand, I do know again that in the HDZ, the vast majority of these people are not satisfied with the policy of Andrej Plenkovic, who pushed them, if we have in mind Istanbul, the SDSS and everything else, lefter than the SDP. For what reason is this not an opportunity for these people to go back to where they really want to go? For what reason will he vote against the disbanding of HS?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108376	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108377	I am convinced that they will vote for the disbandment of HS because we have heard today the counterarguments that in the polls of their great, that the people loves them, that they give confidence, that the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has done a lot of good things for Croatia, that he has done a colossal thing for the Croats from BiH, because the Strategic Compass put the notion of constituent peoples standing in the Constitution of BiH, so after such results, I am convinced that the HDZ in the next election would get 90 clean mandates, and that it would not be brought into a situation that as an electoral minority with the help of minority representatives who had first torn apart in such a way, and did not wait, which was a good democratic practice, to form the majority, and then to have the opportunity to articulate and to realise the interests of the communities that they represent. So I wouldn't deny at all that possibility that colleagues from the ruling minority in the alliance with minorities who represent themselves as the ruling majority to vote for Parliament's disbandment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108378	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108379	Thank you, President of HS, colleague Rasdic, for coming out of the data, for the report by Pfizer to his shareholders, page 6, page 3, where at Risk Management, shareholders are asking Pfizer if we are going to get a permanent permit for the vaccine and CO, the head of Pfizer says no, because we have too many side effects. So these are official documents. I wonder if you think Minister Beros knew that, whether he should have told the Croatian public about the truth and why he paid 30, more than 30 million taxpayers' money for a drug that is the American CDSE of... said it didn't help, that it wasn't effective in the treatment, so Covida, and do you think that Minister Beroš, given the purchase of instruments worth 5 million kunas, and the Ministry paid them 11 million kunas will soon end up where some of his predecessors ended up, and that's a wrinkle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108380	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108381	When I said earlier that I was prophetic, I did not invite Andrej Plenkovic to the meeting, but he invited me, so he publicly said that he would invite Professor Markotic to spend his time at Covid's departments and then we would discuss each other. Now, the old gentleman rule is when someone calls you to a duel, he throws a glove, and the one who's invited has the right to choose the place of the duel. That's why I chose a place in front of the Remetec prison, by the old gentleman's rule I choose, where I turned out to be a double gentleman because they feel at home there. Then it wasn't from this band yet, and then this opened up, Horvat, Zalac, Petric, everything else that went on, plus these now going into investigation, we're going to see what happens to Beroshe today. A huge business is turned around. It doesn't need to be clumsy and too harsh, the whole world is in a new decision situation some should have made quickly. However, they themselves took full responsibility, did not want to go after the article. 17 but in half, they placed under the mark secretly beyond the Law of Public Procurement, Well, that responsibility will be questioned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108382	Thank you very much. Comrade Commissioner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108383	I thank the Honorable President, my colleague Rasdic, here you have said in your statement that the renewal is zero, in the Banovina area, but I must correct you, so you must bear in mind that the total damage from the earthquake in the Banovina area is more than 5 billion euros and bear in mind that we will not be able to resolve all this damage only from the Solidarity Fund but that this government, the government, led by the HDZ, has provided funds for the reconstruction of the houses, so I note here because the public thinks that the restoration of houses, family houses, is coming from the Solidarity Fund. No, but from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, except for houses, there were great damages on the infrastructure, so on the roads, all of it, except donors and volunteers, whom I thanked countless times, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was helped to resuscitate, to establish life in that area, and here I am afraid what would be at the head of your government that was Had an opportunity [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which orbits only along the way and the populist earthquake area [[Thank you, colleagues.]] For selfies and similar purposes [[Intruder: Fellow Comes thank you very much.]] And if you go to the choice you can take your parole MOST lie. [[Intruder: Do you hear me, the rest, it's been a very long time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108384	Comrade Comes! Just, just a minute, Commissioner, you're new to the assembly, you're new to the assembly, but like all other MPs and MPs, you have to stick to the rules that exist here, so I won't give you a warning now, but next time I will, but a colleague of the Grmoya for the injury, not a colleague of Škoro and a colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go, fellow Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm older in the assembly, so I can get a warning. Article 238 has been injured, the colleagues are not true. Dear colleagues, I want to donate 50,223 kunas of money to a family in Banovina that I have earned and that would have given them, but it's impossible because your prime minister's government will take 13% of the value added tax, they'll take my taxes, they'll take my contributions, and they'll still tax them for donation. It is a state of affairs in Croatia and how money can be given to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108386	Comrade Škoro, of course you'll get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now a colleague of the bush will come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108387	Thank you. Article 238, the mayor of Petrinja constantly deceives the public. He claims someone's going to Banovina to take a picture. I want to remind her here's a DVD that's been given to our representatives and members of the Most because they've been covering the roofs in Nebojan for 20 days, and you're saying we're going to take a picture there. And you attacked me because I called you because you're back on the cut and you're You said that I was lying... [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] You didn't have to return it, but you did. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108388	Still brought him back in one heavy... [[Agreement: You get a warning from your colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108389	..still brought him back in one heavy...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108390	You'll get a second warning, you'll get a third one and you won't be able to speak, please. Injury, you're getting a warning. My colleagues, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108391	... Croatian citizens as you know, and Mr. Grmoya here is not heard when I told you if you go to the elections you can take the password MOST is lying. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108392	Comrade Commissioner, you get a warning this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but two replicas in one request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Let's move on, now it's time to re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108393	Thank you very much, President. Col. Grumoj injured Article 238 by disdaining our colleague Magdalen Komes, the mayor of Petrinja who became mayor thanks to the citizens' trust and citizens are those who always decide on each of us and decide which moves are best and who should lead the local environment and state as well as citizens have shown that the best move at the start of the government's mandate was to throw Most out of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108394	You get a warning from a fellow Mazhar, this was also a replica. Now a colleague of the Troscotts will also report a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108395	Article 238, I refer to Mrs. Commissioner's presentation, and I think that the best answer was the satisfaction of what was done on Banovina right in front of the church when people shot the Prime Minister and perhaps Mrs. Commes with their breasts. And this is the only relevant fact, therefore, of expressing the dissatisfaction of the local population and the dynamics and all those promises that Banovina unfortunately emigrates, that this is the only county where pensioners are higher than the number of working people. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Troscott.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108396	A fellow Troscott you get a reminder this was also a pure replica, so let's move on now it's time for the replica of counterpart Selak Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108397	Dear, yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108398	Excuse me, is, is, is, is, excuse me, here's a reply to the replica of my colleague, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108399	I don't understand what you referred to in my speech because you didn't deny anything. So, I said that 2 years and 3 months since the earthquake in Zagreb nothing and a half years have been restored since the Banovina earthquake that there is no renewal. I'm sorry you performed like this. We split into two parts at the moment of the earthquake. Part of it was on the ground the whole time Saturday, Marina Miletic and the Rijeka boys were assigned a thank-you note to Nebojan, where HDZ's chief. Miro Bulj was, he didn't just bring people, but he brought the best masters from both Sinj and the trucks and the help trucks. The Troscott lived there for two months. I guess those complimentary notes from the HDZ chiefs are saying something. We have done the second part, with architects, urbanists, lawyers, economists, builders in 20 days, the day before, working on the full guidelines for the restoration of Banovina and today you could use them after losing a year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108400	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, please choose your replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108401	I'll make it up to this, that colleague Rasudiæ we made guidelines for the Banovina recovery strategy 20 days after the earthquake in agreement with the experts and exposed some hodogram of reconstruction. And what happens today? Today we have a resolute minister, a new minister who presented to the public a plan to speed up the recovery, be careful the acceleration has no recovery plan, because the reconstruction never happened, he was already on speed, and when he was due to come before the committee responsible who called him just to show that plan suddenly takes him another month to put it together. So, after the minister taken by Uskok, we have the minister's bluff. So much for who contributed to the restoration. And I'm going to ask you, given that HDZ is very burdened with what kind of ideology you're taking, how do you interpret that they are more inspired by the dragon's nest than Bruce Lee?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108402	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108403	As far as ideology is concerned, people are evaluating, some are coming. There is a phenomenon that left-handed people in Croatia come after 50. This happened with President Tudjman, with Zdravko Tomc, perhaps it happens with Milanovic. I wouldn't have any problem if I had evolved with years ago than 10 or 15 years ago, but about 600 of my columns have been published in 4 books in the last 15 years of writing. It's over 3,000 cards, hundreds and hundreds of hours of video material, please find me something that would be more to God's left or that I supported the civil concept. And if you think that Bruce Lee is some kind of Zeljko Komsic or Bakir Izetbegovic who advocates, Bruce Lee stood up for these things in BiH, so he gave him a monument, and we, as students of young people, had to raise a monument to defenders for what it took your partners over 20 years in Mostar, and a million marks a day came to BiH, a day, when I'm talking about who was supposed to raise which monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108404	Thank you very much. Let's move on, fellow Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I will dissipate. You also mentioned the Croats of BiH who are extremely hard to live for, there are fewer and fewer of them and often we get letters complaining and asking us for help. I'm afraid there isn't any help. How much on the state, do you think, the political situation of the Croats in BiH has been affected by this evident and whiteish, poor electoral law, and how much is the fact that it was in 2006. Supported by the Zagreb HDZ broken political corps of Croats in BiH to HDZ and HDZ in 1990.? Is it possible that there is a problem and the fact that Croats have not had political unity since then, and everything is as expensive as I say 100% from Zagreb, you and I, but colleagues in HDZ know it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108406	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108407	Comrade Škoro, I think that we all in Croatia, and we should not be far from reaching a consensus on the position of Croats in BiH where we are really only looking for what we are looking for for and for other peoples in BiH, and that is important. And that we should not set ourselves up as tutors to anyone, we all have some Croatian options that are closer to us than agree that we will fully support Croatian interests the way their legitimate political representatives articulate, so the leading Croatian parties in BiH. Yes, responsibility lies partly on the leadership of Croats in BiH and on some of the loops from Croatia, but let us not forget that in such a way the electoral law has been forged, that the best people of Mother Teresa and most capable of being run by Croats that Bosniaks can revote them from the House of People to the presidency at any time. And just the change of electoral law would allow real pluralism among Croats in BiH because this is how Croats homogenize around the strongest option though Many of them would not have done so if they were not in fear of voting. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108408	Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108409	Thank you, Mr. President. By listening to counterpart Selak Raspoudić and you for the past 20 minutes, there has been an impression that there has been a modification on the Croatian political scene Mosta in OPG Raspadić-Selak Raspoudić family parliamentary economy Rasudić-Selak Raspoudic. Some bad voices say the OPG means leaving Petrov-Grue which I would not agree with knowing the tenacity of my Mets when it comes to fighting on a political scene so that it will not allow you to do so, but I have replicated for another reason. You mentioned the word cowardice several times. You know what cowardice is? When one opposition pa was one and the O.P.G. called the government for 20 minutes, and he finds a business trick that doesn't lead that same government to a duel here. If you wanted to slander the government for 20 minutes then you could find another business an instrument such as recalling the question [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And then you'd be in that duel having what you wanted [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague BAčić.]] and not in this way hide behind a business model like this. [[Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague BAčić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108410	You have two warnings don't... get me a third. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108411	I didn't understand this the last time, and what, uh, excuse me for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108412	Col. Selak Raspoudic's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108413	Art. The 238th demeaning of legitimately elected parliamentary deputies who stand by the number of votes so that most HDZ deputies cannot be measured with them. The fundamental difference between OPG Rasdić and OPG according to the HDZ model that is ruling Croatia is next, in order for us as an OPG to come to HS citizens to choose us, and for the OPG HDZ to rule Croatia he will go beyond the competitions of law and the will of Croatian citizens as is the case today. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108414	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ thank you very much. This is a warning, it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I see you now and colleague Jelkovac, as I have announced I warn you you have two warnings that you may get a third, you will not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108415	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm aware that I have two warnings, but my colleague has been injured by an officer. The 238th Rules of Procedure because it defames us of the representatives of the HDZ. My colleagues, if you were elected by the citizens, and we were elected by the citizens, but you must also know that in power comes regular elections. What you're trying to do here is really nakarad, and this isn't going to happen to you. help strengthen your position politically. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108416	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, you are losing your right to speak, this was also a replica and you can no longer participate in the debate. You don't want to see your colleague Selak Rasdic anymore? Okay. Then let's go to the last line, and yet let me apologize. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108417	I appreciate your concern for the political future of Grmoya, especially God Petrova as party president because I know what you are... I know what you've been doing to your party presidents after they've fallen, when the tree falls, everyone jumps on it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what I can guarantee you, God make us live, that in both 10 and 20 and 30 years I will surely be friends with God Petrov and with Grmoy, and as you treated Ivo Sanader, to Jadranka Kosor, to Karamark, and how tomorrow you will treat Plenkovic when he goes away, so... that's the difference between us and your OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108418	Now I'm so sorry I can't say anything, but good. Nothing, nothing. There were a lot of people... [[I forgot about you, who's behind my back, so I forgot about the wolf. Okay, okay, okay.]] No, no, there were a lot of people in the Bridge, so they didn't exactly stay in good relationships as I remember when they left. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's not when my colleague Rasdic gave me a little chance after all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nothing, we're going to the last line of our colleagues, Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108419	Dear colleague Rasdic. Here you are here today to continue such a relatively successful game that he started, a performance initiated by fellow Peja Grbin this morning. I have to tell you it's easy when you know what you're looking for isn't going to happen because you don't want it yourself, but not because it's your wishes, but because most of them are stable. We don't have a problem with going to the election tomorrow, you've seen what the party rating is like from week to week, I don't know where you are. Are you sure you'd be representatives again after the election? Well, here's a play you can keep playing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108420	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108421	Thank you. The polls always gave us less, according to the survey I should not enter the parliament, and the Jutarnji list spread seven days before the elections Raspedic did not get 4%, so it got twice as much. And by these polls, we're... we're getting into a council a lot more. But that's not why we're looking for impeachment, we've cited a whole series of arguments, and it's the fact that in a situation where nothing has been restored for two years in Zagreb, a year and a half in Banovina that your Minister of Reconstruction ends directly in prison is enough in every democratic country, civilized for the downfall of the government and a new demand for legitimacy from citizens, not to mention everything else. So that's just it. And as for the show with Mr. Grbino, perhaps you're concerned that your strategic partner might be taken from you. Your coat of arms and his hands were clapping when you pushed the Istanbul Convention, and I never got a round of applause from the coat of arms. I've been given the coat of arms charges to paralyze to death about it, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108422	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas, now I'm going to open a debate and we're going to go to the first club of representatives that's the Bridge, they're going to talk to two representatives of their colleagues, Mr. Grmoy and colleague Troscott. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108423	If anyone here in the assembly could talk about corruption by ruling it, not because I know more than you, means other fellow MPs, not because I'm smarter than you, not because I speak better than you, but because I'm in that position as president of the Anti-Corruption Council. On a daily basis, citizens send me plays that warn me about the corruption of rulings, not only at the state level but at lower levels in their cities, municipalities, in their counties, they send me complaints about employment in state institutions, public institutions, state companies. But I don't really have a stomach to talk about the corruption of the ruling, I don't have a stomach, and there's no need. Whoever wanted to see that saw it. And believe me, you're not good at your colleagues' polls, so comfort yourself. Look how much you've won the election, and how much you have now, even if those polls are correct, and I assure you that they're not, that you're much worse in reality. You fell from 36% to 25%, and now you have a thin majority, now you have a thin majority with the help of minority deputies. So you have no chance of coming to power and for Croatia it would be medical for you at least eight years of opposition, and for you too it would be healing. Maybe there's still a chance that you can save your soul, save your soul in a political sense, not think about your souls personally, about it only dear God can judge, I mean HDZ as a political structure. And what I'm about to talk about is using these two-and-a-half minutes of debates, I was tagged by one of our former Facebook colleagues, my colleague Alexic, and then I called him this morning. What's this about? According to the EU court, the pilot's hand in the Franak case is 55,000 of our citizens where the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that when they were 2015. went into conversion that they gave up the rights to compensation even though then the currency clause was not yet declared harmful, so it happened several years later than this conversion. So the government of the Republic of Croatia stabs the back of Croatian citizens. And then what will the EU court do but wash its hands. So the government plays for banks, not Croatian constructions. What's the reason for that? Some say this arbitration in Washington, where the government has agreed with banks, banks will withdraw the lawsuit in Washington, and the government will play for banks in the EU court in return. I don't like to share labels so easily traitors, high-level traitors, but I can't characterize this any other way than a treasonous policy, so the government's policy that goes to the expense of 55,000 Croatian families and the game for banks. Shame! That's enough reason for this government to fall and go to early elections. If we take all these affairs aside and we're so kind to Prime Minister Plenkovic and we say, a good man only misrepresents, he chooses bad associates. So if we are completely kind to him and we say that man has nothing to do with corruption only mischoice, he chooses his associates, but this move shows that the entire government is working against the interests of Croatian citizens. He'll continue his colleague, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108424	Like this, I'll just pick up where the bush left off. So our further argument is that this government has been working intensively in recent years on the Hungarianisation of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia. Just look at the reports of Plinar or, say, CROTE, to see that the number of gas pipelines entering Hungary has increased, and the prime minister himself has spoken recently, not long ago, in fact, that he will buy the INU. None of that happened. For the Hungarianisation of the CNB, I don't even have to speak for the reason that the CNB governor got a gift, I haven't seen it anywhere in the world that the governor of the National Bank got a gift from a government, for which, for the Hungarianisation of the financial sector. Now, the still incriminating Coric, who has worked intensively on the Hungarianisation of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, and his wife and renewables will still come, will now get a position as governor of the CNB to continue further and Hungarianisation and energy and financial sectors. Now, I have the authority to say this at the heart of the sohon emeles master orszag, which is that the Croatian country will never be Hungary despite what the Prime Minister and Coric and all the other players in Herdervar's spirit are doing on the Hungarianisation of the energy and financial sector. I can also raise the issue that Prime Minister Plenkovic is working intensively to implement Russia's economic strategy. My question today is next. What am I based on? Can I ask you ladies and gentlemen today why we don't have economic sanctions on, say, Little Losinj? Or in Croatian we will ask if Crimea is Ukrainian whether Mali Lošinj is Croatian and therefore I do not need Google translates Ukrainian to ask that question. The second argument is the Paladin itself, so in the way that man burned our pensions, how he literally burned our pensions, how he burned the NEK fund, and thus damaged the storage of nuclear waste, and then we can go to Mandre and nicely dump nuclear waste in his backyard. And it still charges everything another 8 million kuna so that he and his family can pay us back what he literally took from the NEK fund which is connected to the Ministry of Economy and which is paying money into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And that second argument is that all of his assets, so Mr. Paladin got no less or less in collaboration with Sergei Diadelkin, so now we're talking about another argument where it's still the implementation of hungry players who are tied to Russian capital. The legitimate question is this if Lithuania, which today has 16% inflation as well as all the Baltic countries, is importing the embargo on Russian gas, whether it will do this to Croatia or will continue to force certain gas boilers and earn additional nooses on the energy situation in the Republic of Croatia or we will finally start with the model of the island of Krk or Cres, and we will be doing photoelectricals on roofs where energy independence on an individual level could be done automatically, not to satisfy the king's wind, rather than to satisfy the king's gases and not to satisfy the king's thermoelectric power plants burning in lignite and thus burn both BiH and Serbia. Furthermore, Fortenova, therefore that capital was transferred to the Hungarian capital Jelinek who bought there by Primosten hotels etc., one chair man did not replace, but it is well known and Bloomberg has proved that Jelinek is connected to the Shogor of Orban, and Orban via financial reports and ownership structures of the energy and financial system is tied to Putin. Do you see now how our prime minister is doing directly, what he is doing indirectly in the conduct of Russia's economics? strategies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108425	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108426	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues during this morning's debate we heard incredible arguments and arguments from the HDZ why this initiative is not needed. We heard among other things as an argument that their coalition is solid, the coalition is stable, so why should this government be questioned at all. The fact that the coalition is stable is just a reflection of the political chaos and the collapse of every political value because the coalition manages to be firm despite the government's not, which the government is not. Calling this government stable is literally Alan Ford's thing, the Superhick thing. How stable is the government in which, and I call this the Government of Continuity since 2016, in which a dozen ministers have left because of corruption or those for whom criminal proceedings already exist or because criminal proceedings have been known to begin? How can a government that can't be stable for nearly six months now choose the head of a key agency for the distribution of eu funds, and eu funds are the main thing you're boasting about? How can the government in which the prime minister cannot get members of his party to be his ministers be stable? Your party doesn't want to be ministers in this government. And that's a stable government? Ask Bačić why he's not the Minister of Construction why Mr. Paladin is? Ask how long it took for the prime minister to find replacements for the officials who were removed. Ask the prime minister how many people he had to ask before he got to those who are now just replacing on his toy bench. And that only the replacements and possible temporary replacements were said by him because he said both Aladrovic and Mr Milosevic welcome them always to the government if it turns out that the criminal proceedings will not be conducted. However, these affairs are not the worst that is happening in this country, nor are they the only reason why we have launched Parliament's disbandation. The key reason is that nothing in this country is happening because of these affairs, the key reason is that you have not implemented, but not one reform since 2016. which you have repeated year after year in the reform plans, and I will count them all for you today, each year you send them as a proposal for Brussels and none has been implemented. No basics were carried out that you instructed in the reform plans like I don't know, the establishment of a centre of shared services, and that failed your competition last year. The worst part, the worst part is that today you've been talking about the 2000 SDP government I don't know about, the SDP government that was until 2014, and I can really have a lot of complaints about how it was then, but gentlemen dear, that government built the highway in 2000 in three years. You haven't been able to build one house in two years after the earthquake in Zagreb, one. Mrs. Mrak Taritas two years after the flood in Gunja were absolutely all, 2160 houses were renovated in Gunja, two years after the earthquake in Zagreb zero, zero. So don't even compare yourself, you're digging yourself a pit. No matter how many complaints I have on everything that has not been made in these governments, for two years and we have zero renovated newly built houses in Zagreb. I'm not talking about Bania. The mayor of Petrinja came as a replacement to the parliament, as a replacement to the Parliament, the mayor of Petrinja, who should first be engaged in reconstruction in Petrinja, and she had to come because you no longer have benches because they're all done.../The speaker's off./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108427	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Stay, stay here, please. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108428	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues Bencic, I will not expect from you after this replica of mine that you have a magic wand and answer, but is it really startling that there is no O from the renovations, there is no renewal. More than two years have passed in the city of Zagreb in the area of Banovina for more than a year and it is being restored in fact who in the expectation of Godot who did not eventually come, so I fear that in the end there will be no renewal. So what does the prime minister do? Bring, bring a top manager who'll manage. What exactly will he manage? His property, his interest in a ministry called the Department of State Property Management as an alibi for why there will be no renewal. So we don't need an alibi for why the renovation won't be, we know it won't be, but the alibi needs HDZ for some future elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108429	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108430	Mrs. Dark Tarritash, I'd be happy to answer your question. Yes, there is no renewal, that the prime minister is looking for an alibi and I will actually formulate a third as a question, how is it possible that in a situation where he replaces the minister whom he has arrested selects the person at the head of the most important resort currently in Croatia, he chooses the person for whom we needed a new business institute, the recall before the appointment, we really needed it. So anyone who Googled it could see that the man had robbed the hydropower and the IGH. Anyone who cornered it could see that the man had 10% in the Coopers project and not only that, but he's not coming out of ownership because he has three property disputes with them because he's asking for more money than what the owners give him. And you named it without a pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108431	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108432	Dear colleagues. Not only is the number of newly built houses zero, but also where people themselves set out to rebuild and give it to the ministry, give the fund all the necessary documentation, they don't get the money in the budget as a fol. You remember how we reduced the item that was supposed to be refurbishment in rebalancing, we reduced it because they couldn't do their job but it still goes on, so they couldn't even start the process of rebuilding the buildings of the Parliament and the Government of the 2nd. After the earthquake, not the parliament, not the government. And now I'm asking you, the Paladin has presented five points, if anyone knows what those five points are about and how those five points should speed up the restoration if they even exist or come down to what is number 5 and the digitization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108433	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108434	Can I give you my word or am I insignificant here completely?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108435	Excuse me, you're very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108436	Here you go, dear counsel Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108437	Thank you, thank you. My fellow coat of arms, so this government didn't make it in two years. to arrange for the company to restore its roof over someone else's head. It's, it's, it's amazing, look out it's amazing, so it's 2.g. There, 2160 houses are restored, no company can be contracted here to restore the parliament or government. I mean, here I am, I really believe, I really believe that all of you around it is that mild discomfort, I hope. As for Paladin and his 5 points, the first thing that Paladin repeated in those 5 points is what we've all been saying here, all of us here before the adoption of the first Rehabilitation Act, about how they have to concentrate in one place, the issue of documentation needs to be reduced by the number of actors in this, that the procedures should be accelerated in a way that there is no unnecessary red tape, etc., but he said it all on the general level. We've had concrete solutions, he's got about five points he doesn't know how to implement in detail and that's why these dots aren't, he's only got his cosmetics to cover up his affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108438	Thank you very much. Don't, you've gone too long, so please hold on. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108439	Comrade Bencic, we both have Zagorje's blood, so we know that saying, "Silent water on the banks." I wouldn't agree with you if it wasn't for the reform. True, there were no reforms that were held and drawn forward, but there were reforms that undermined itself, the very foundation of the statehood of those reforms that made the state weak. HDZ has euthanized independent state bodies, especially those with a certain anti-corruption role, has weakened the independence of the judiciary, now the judges are checking our secret services looking for compromising materials with which the government will blackmail them when deciding on highly corrupt ministers and other affairs. What do we do? I think we should explain to the citizens what the state will look like one day when this HDZ government is being replaced, and I believe you have something to say about that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108440	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108441	Thank you. The fact is that Croatia is not in these 6 years. The governments of Andrej Plenkovic have not begun to take a step, nor have they taken a step with the EU. The fact that we are all indicators of quality of life, infrastructure, economy, etc. at the bottom of the EU scale. The fact is, when they asked the prime minister the other day, he's now the longest-ever prime minister, so they asked him what your results were in the 6th year, he didn't know the word, he didn't know the word of the people. He said he had a difficult mandate, he had, I don't, I don't dispute that mandate was difficult, a pandemic, earthquakes, is, but 6 years old. You don't know how to say one result except we built the Peljek Bridge, how many bridges were built when the highway was built? He's six years old. One bridge built so that he took the money from the EU and gave it to the Chinese construction sector because he destroyed his construction sector according to the model.../The speaker turned off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108442	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108443	Dear colleague, let's get back to the HDZ satellites, as far as I can tell, there's none here, so we don't know if they support this government, whether they want to disband the assembly or not. Mr. Hrebak, however, has said quite liberally that Croatia needs stability, not freedom of choice, although the liberals have always advocated freedom of choice, but such freedom may not have brought a place in the assembly again. Or, let's say, Mr. Pupovac gave conditional support to the director of HRT in his own time, and as far as I can see, he's also giving unconditionally because he's editing HRT policy or part of Mr. Cacic's representative. He publicly advocates the government of the left center, so I'm wondering if he's still up for it or he's changed his mind because he's saying a little something, so he's having second thoughts. Where is Silvano Hrelja, the first official chip of this government? What do you think of the support of this government and this commercial majority when there are not exactly their most important satellites?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108444	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108445	Thank you. The fact that there are no HDZ coalition partners here today, it's not an accident at first, it's not an accident. They're not here because they know, because they understand that I can't answer questions, that I can't replicate, that I can't speak on behalf of my clubs in a way that will defend the HDZ government, I mean, well, that's, that's, I, I understand that they can't do that. On the other hand, they are trying to hide themselves from Croatian citizens and hide the fact that they support the government that has failed, supporting it for the reasons that they know that the elections will not pass the threshold, and I guarantee them that they will take this courageous step, perhaps politically survive, if they do not make it for 2nd year. They don't exist, how many they swallow HDZ and their affairs so HDZ will push them through and they won't be in 2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108446	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bencic, you mentioned the highway allegedly built by the left government in 3 years, but the invoices are working. So the idea of the highway was created in 1961, the academic Roglic brought it out, in the 1970s, the first stock was made. It's also true that in the 1970s, when it was over, it was called a self-dependency, and apparently these money went to build a Belgrade-Bar railroad, I don't know, they didn't teach me that at college, but this sure did. The left government was when it came to power in 2000. She said she was in the St. Roc tunnel that passed the regiment. Franjo Tudjman can quote "cruise mushrooms" So it's a fact, though, that these works started early and that he was without a competition but also signed contract with Bechtel, so they didn't build the highway in 3 years, but they did a lot, here's just a invoice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108448	Oh, there you go, Mr. Scoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108449	Comrade Bencic, let's go slowly, slowly, You'll be there, you'll be there. [[I'm sorry, so let's speed it up.]] Dear, honourable representative Bencic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108450	Thank you. My colleague Škoro, I said with all the objections I have and certainly the affairs that were later good, although when HDZ took over some shares there were all kinds of the same phenomena and I'm not saying that there was no problem here, but tell me, here you tell me about any infrastructure procedure today, if you can make a project documentation at 3 years, so don't make a project documentation in 3 years, let alone to start a bargaining process, let alone to get the works started. Well, we haven't been able to make the centre of shared services with all the European Union's money, so I mean nothing digitally, nothing infrastructure. We don't know where the money is, we don't know where it is, so we don't have a big project to boast about any physical or digital infrastructure. It's a shame to me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108451	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, and the time will be shared by respected representatives Milanovic litre and respected representative Sačić. First of all, the respected representative Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108452	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, okay, here I was talking a little bit today during my request for a break about apathy, about the way in, about perception of actually citizens about politics and politicians. I think that we should all be concerned and the way people perceive the Croatian Parliament. In fact, even 54% if I'm not mistaken for Croatian voters did not go to the polls. It's a worrying number. All of us have contributed in some way to this, but still feels that the greatest responsibility is in the ruling. That the ruling have the greatest responsibility for the failure of the player, the voter pardons. Of course the opposition, and the opposition there has the same part of responsibility. But we must be aware that 50 of those 54% of voters who are not Croatian Parliament would look very different today. HDZ probably wouldn't be in power, and I guess the left-hand side wouldn't have that many votes either. So I think that we should all be the goal of making this one political discourse successful and finding a way...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108453	A colleague Milanović litre just a moment. My colleagues and colleagues I ask you nicely if you need some arrangements, for some talks please go outside and do not disturb the speaker, it is not correct, it is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108454	Yeah, well, it's about not being able to speak on behalf of the motionor and having two applicants, we don't know on the basis of which decision, so we now have to adapt to that debate so the current question is given your decision that we will also seek the interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108455	I, first of all, can you speak when I give you my word, that's one thing. The other thing is, of course, when the debate is united, then behind each, you can pick up behind each but of course one proposaler, not two proposings like you don't have if you accidentally thought of six replicas, but three replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108456	No, so a united debate when we have one applicant is one thing, and the other is a two-proposer debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108457	My colleague, you can't argue like this. This way. [[Intruder: Of course.]] I'm giving you a warning now. So I'm asking you nicely that this one, if you have anything to discuss, come out, make a deal, discuss it, and it'll be fine. Here's a colleague of Sacic's. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108458	Hurt...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108459	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108460	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, so we have two proposings...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108461	I'm sorry, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108462	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108463	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108464	Yeah, so if we have two proposings...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108465	What does that have to do with Article 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108466	And may I say by the end of the vice president's assembly? I've got 30 seconds to try...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108467	What difference does it make, no, no, you can't talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108468	Well, I can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108469	... calling for Article 238, to talk about whether or not you can negotiate with another... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108470	Well, I didn't, but I didn't tell you what this injured Rules of Procedure was, I couldn't even tell you, you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108471	Yes, you said, in 238 that it doesn't stand in, it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108472	Dear Vice President, I rarely raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I take great care when I raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure to that effect. On behalf of the promoter, two applicants spoke twice in 20 minutes, and now they can't speak twice in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108473	Please. Because it has nothing to do with Article 238, you get a warning, and of course you can't because it's united and that's how it's going to be. And that's said in advance, so please, let's not go back to the same stories and the same, same one now. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108474	The President-in-Office was injured in Article 238, paragraph 1 of the Intruders and the Disruption of Speakers. My esteemed colleague Milanović Liter, you broke up, allowed his thought that the Croatian public, on the polls, did not know what he could say because colleagues and colleagues do not respect the basic principles of parliamentary democracy, have problems, but let them stand out in the foyers and let them discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108475	My colleague, Sacic, it's me, I just told them, and I just asked them not to interrupt the speaker, so you don't have to do my job, do this, do my job. Uh, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's an injury. Article 233(2) The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS which regulates the matter of time specified for the speech of the proposing representatives. So, we have a situation here that is a united debate where we don't have a single proposer. That is why the president allowed representatives and one and the other proposings to have a separate rather than a pooled opening exhibition at the beginning, that is the first. And secondly, it's not true that these rules were said at the outset, I've been here since the start of the debate, and there's no point in talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108477	It is true that there were two proposings, however it is not, does not mean that after each presentation, representatives of each proposal can speak. It's just not like that. If you think I'm wrong, you know better than me, probably the one that's the way to solve it, right? Excuse me, colleague Milanović litre, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108478	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108479	All right, this esteemed representative, Skoro, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what did he get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108480	Thank you very much, sir. And you're the one who hurt the Art. 236. The Rules of Procedure of the HS who says, I will quote, I have already said, to the MP who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives the order as soon as this request, the speech of that representative cannot last longer than half a minute, and the MP must immediately specify the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is speaking. The chairman is obliged to provide an explanation after the complaint has been made. So that's what it says in art. 236, I apologize if I misquoted it, but I didn't, I read it. You can't interrupt while you're taking out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you've hurt yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108481	Yeah, but if, but if you're referring to a completely wrong article that has nothing to do with it, then of course I do. Okay, now we want to keep working normally so that colleague Milanović litre can and colleague Sacic can, of course, speak normally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108482	Thank you, Chairman. I will actually agree here to subscribe, this may even be a good example of why this should disband the Assembly since even in the Rules of Procedure there is not a clear amount of things, but I will agree with my colleague Škor that whether you think it is hurt or not, you should allow someone who has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say their thoughts to the end that you might then conclude whether this article is hurt or not, but what good is there, what kind of state such and assembly unfortunately. I've been thinking about getting ready for today, there were a lot of topics, a lot of things we could say to each other in the last 2 years. which happened, we could refer to the previous government which is the continuation of the government's policies, but there was an interesting document on the HDZ pages called "Safe Croatia", which was published there in the summer among other points that are planned, in all the plans that this government will have 10 priorities in the next term. Now, if I didn't put too many of my views out there, I'd just read those ten priorities, so we can figure out what's been done and done and what's not done. The first point is "Praise and Sovereign Croatia", driven by patriotism and democratic values, we will continue to boldly promote national interests such as Croats in BiH, protect the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, perhaps Mr. Sačić, General Sacic, I apologize later, to strengthen the HV and the police, and to strengthen Croatia's sovereignty and influence in Europe and the world. We will continue to connect Croatia's homeland and evicted and worry about the situation of Croats in BiH and neighbouring countries. Thank God for the election law that has been changed in BiH. An effective state, we will reduce the number of ministries, you have done this, I admit it, we will halve the number of local officials, and we will enable the functional integration of municipalities with the further digitisation of public services that we will intensify and speed up, we will continue to reform the judiciary, it is started by Mr Mamić from Medjugorje, you have somehow put it on, you have passed a new Executive Law and uncompromisingly combat corruption with emphasis on its prevention, and build a society that respects human rights and the rights of national minorities. Point three, jobs and wages. We will create the conditions for opening 100,000 new places, and here we should consider that the crown was defeated in the summer, it was safe Croatia, but there was already an announcement of the autumn wave of crowns, so this should be realised and 10 billion kuna should be invested in it, by the end of the term, the average salary will be 7,600 kuna, and minimum at least 4.250, each young person will be provided with 130 thousand kunas for self-employment, we will continue to include persons with disabilities on the labour market and in society. Demographic revitalization, that's where you turned out to be extraordinary. We will provide parental benefits of full pay, double the child's allowance, subsidize 20 thousand housing loans for young families, and provide extended work in another 200 kindergartens, regulate the work of shop on Sundays, and allow everyone to spend it with the family. Here's the time, I can see it's about to end, but I'll be over the others in a hurry. Taxes, health care and pensions, education, science and industry, self-sufficiency in food and energy, reconstruction of Zagreb, uniform development. I'm sorry I can't read all this, but if you'd filled this out, I don't think today would have come to this debate. Unfortunately, it has not been fulfilled, I do not believe that it will be fulfilled by the end of the term, if I am mistaken, God forbid I am mistaken, to fulfill everything, but knowing the work of the HDZ, the ruling so far and what has been done, I do not honestly doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108483	The Honorable Representative Sacic will continue on behalf of the same person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108484	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. So today we have a specific moment in HS where opposition representatives are looking for a disbandment of parliament, and as I have read through this political history, these are moments relatively rare in this European area. In HS, it seems to me that they happened once or twice I'm not 100% sure, of course, always unsuccessful, once successfully when a representative of the ruling majority asked for Mr Karamarko's disbandment and this happened in 2016, and I didn't have a chance. However, we from the Croatian Sovereigns club, although you did not include us, the promoter did not know Mr. Grbin or colleagues and colleagues from the Mosta, we talked, but we did not formally sign anything, but we are very supportive of your proposal, although we will see when the vote will come. And why is that? Why do we support that? It is therefore in the interest of the Republic of Croatia when the majority of parliament is created and when the mandater is given confidence in this assembly to do his programmes and we have had the opportunity to hear from colleagues, unfortunately the interrupted counterpart of Litter on the Safe Croatia programme, and this programme has also been accepted by the HDZ coalition partners, much has not been achieved. I will only refer in short lines that there were also objective circumstances that have been potentiated by the problems and difficulties in the functioning of the Croatian society and Croatian government, and to the burden and damage of Croatian citizens from terrible earthquakes, we have nothing to say from Zagreb, Petrinja, Banovina, from the Corona. Now, about the crown and the covid reaction we could talk about, but I don't have enough time, I'm just going to say that there wasn't a proper reaction and in my opinion we over-granted the citizens of the Republic, did a lot of damage in 4.5 billion kuna, caused the psychotraum. Of course, it took people's lives, but the reaction could have been more appropriate than anywhere else, so the damage would have been less. In addition, we have unsuitable reactions in these two years that we are in the assembly why should there be an argument as to why the elections should be discussed is that corruption, which unfortunately still erupts however we fight, defends. Here today I had the opportunity to hear an encouraging news, the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, said that in the future, he abolished immunity on the very basis of suspicion if some minister is in corrupt criminal acts. Excellent. Well, after 30 years we're done and we get it, it'll come in the process. Now, dear opposition I dream of these elections so whoever comes to the assembly, who doesn't come, but please come together, let's unite all of us from the opposition, and maybe someone from HDZ can succeed. Let's change Mr. Grubin's electoral legislation before we create the conditions to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So what we're going to do now, Mr. Grbin, is look for new elections, disbanding the government, and yet, according to the old story, we're going to get people to vote for HDZ in the belief that they're going to get a patriotic right-wing party, at the end of the age of the government with the abolised rebels, with left-wing liberals, with concrete left-wings, or I don't know what. So we're going one step at a time to ask for a divorce, there's a reason, but let's change the electoral legislation. This is a constructive proposal. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108485	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108486	... you're always interrupting what's right in a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108487	Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108488	So three seconds, 10 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108489	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, please. You're probably looking for a break if I get it right, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108490	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS for ten minutes for additional consultations and for a break that is real, and not she declared after which you will proceed with the session further. I ask Stanku to agree that today he will continue the debate on the common agenda points and that for reasons that you as chairman cannot because you do not know on the basis of which provisions will make it impossible for the opposition to report two different proposals for a word after each speaker. There are no such rules, these are your made-up rules and your abuse of the chair you're sitting on right now. So HS is a legislative body, a legislator of all regulations and rules and it's humiliating that you take that power, that role to tailor and interpret according to your will. It is a humiliation not only of the dignity of this home, but of all Croatian citizens. Please tell us in advance what the rules of this game are that in these rules we can beat you as it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108491	Thank you very much. You said it wonderfully, and I will, of course, allow you to take a break, so here, since you want ten minutes, we'll see each other in 13 and 27 minutes, and by then they'll have to wait until they want to make a stand on behalf of the representatives clubs and independent representatives, which should have been now. It's a meeting at 13:18 p.m. Now we will return to our point and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak esteemed... And I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary, she will now speak first-respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108493	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the start of two findings, the first of the ruling HDZs together with their coalition partners is no one but the vice president who must be there for someone to lead the session, so much about it. Second thing, 2016. When the action was launched, the action was of the opposition, in order to be absolutely clear, the opposition set off on the topic of disbanding the parliament that ended successfully. So, enough would be enough for all those colleagues who are here today to look up and talk about how there's only some election, they're going to show their victory, have a chance, have a chance, vote, so let's go, let's see where we are and what we are. Although here, in this address, on behalf of the promoter, I will refer to a successful acquisition of the prime minister, and this acquisition is called Ivan Paladin. He is the minister of spatial planning and construction and state property. When it comes to him, the emphasis must be on state property. Why? So Minister Darko Horvat ended up in custody and resigned, 6 days before a debate was held in the assembly about him and his poor work. The request to discuss the confidence of Minister Horvat signed a record number of MPs and MPs, 62. However, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, that part of the government's reconstruction was done by the DORH and what happened, we got a new minister, a successful manager, a big star of the real sector, the name and last name Ivan Paladin. About what kind of manager it is and what real sector it comes from, we've heard a lot, and what I'm afraid of, and what I'm afraid of, we'll certainly hear a lot more. Where he passed the grass no longer grows, only failures and unfinished transactions remain, except for the collapse of a million-dollar private property that was mostly owned by a company he led. It has been 26 months since the earthquake in Zagreb, and since the earthquake in Banja 15 and since then nothing has happened, there has been no renewal. The first great address of the new Minister of Paladin to the Croatian public confirmed what was worried all of us would remain, he simply continued in a tone of all his predecessors and gave us a general review of the situation with the conclusion that nothing had been done. Great, he should've come to the head of the resistor and found nothing was done. In addition to showing complete incompetence, Prime Minister Plenkovic's daunting lack of will has managed to bring the whole recovery story into classical HDZ corruption mud. So the former Minister Horvat did not change because he was incompetent but because he was arrested, and then he replaced him with a man who knows nothing about the restoration, but because even before he formally took over the mandate, there is a lot of media affairs and it is clear that Prime Minister Plenkovic brought him here to say that he is not guilty of rebuilding or restoring anyone from HDZ, but that unfortunate minister is, in fact, unhappy for all those people living in containers in the area of Banja and Banovina and those who in Zagreb have not actually launched any tragic exit strategy and attempt to reduce the damage to HDZ and Plenkovic, and there is no renewal. It's not slow, the renovation's gone, the whole time I've been trying to think positively, maybe something's going on, maybe something's up, but every day I'm disappointed, there's not going to be a renovation. The message we are constantly getting from Prime Minister Plenkovic and from his statements and reaction is that the topic of reconstruction is actually getting on his nerves. If we really wanted to get things going again, we'd have to work things out differently. Minister Paladin had been able to analyse what was wrong for two months at the time, see critical points, give solutions and deadlines for these critical points. He acts like it's his job to say what's wrong with him instead of offering a solution, it doesn't work. If the critical point is administration, then someone organizes processes so that they work. Let him change them. But it wasn't his intention, What the Minister of Paladin was interested in was state property. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108494	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108495	Thank you. My colleague Mrak Taritas, you said that Ivan Paladin is interested in property, it seems to me that the most controversial moment is that for a real-estate minister who should take care of the entire state property is a chosen person who in his former or former professional career has shown that the only thing he knows how to do is to acquire his own wealth, his own property at the expense of a business entity, a company, a legal entity, whatever interests you want, and also the property he was obliged to take care of. So it's a man who sees the position as an opportunity, an opportunity for himself, an opportunity for his wealth, not a commitment and responsibility to what he should do in some position. This is the bottom Croatia has not seen in its history before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108496	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash. There were no questions, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108497	Okay, thank you very much. So what to add or subtract, when Mr. Paladin became minister, it was evident that he was actually not interested in rebuilding, that there was one topic he was interested in was state property. I can somehow answer this finding of yours with one question, which we would all think together about a state that manages the state property that puts a person who, at a time when there are 10% shares or participation in a single project that is important to the state and is being sued. Imagine an investor who comes to such a country and says, "I have a minister who decides for me, and he keeps me 10% of the portfolios, obviously, I'm going to have to make a deal with him. It's an investor who thinks of such a state, thinks it's an agreed state and what Mr. Plenkovic's been doing with his acquisition, creating projects in the state with agreed projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108498	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Selak Raspoudic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108499	I will continue the renewed topic because it is certainly one of the biggest problems facing Croatia, perhaps the best mirror of HDZ authorities' practices. So, most often when we talk about HDZ we talk about in the context of corruption, and then you even have those voluntary interpretations that are wrong, but often in the people, let's go steal, but everybody steals anyway, but they at least know something and do something. However, this renewal that has never occurred is a clear example of the truth about HDZ's authority, which is the next truth, they are not only corrupt, but are primarily incompetent, and the consequence of their incompetence is corruption because it is the only way to advance and secure their functions. When you can't with your own abilities, then you have to and only you can do with corruption. When we talk about the new Minister Paladin, first of all, to get away from these potential or future affairs and to leave them to the competent authorities, we need to deal with what he called a plan to speed up the reconstruction process. So he became a minister, came to HS on the board of directors to tell us he's ready to take over. Many of the issues raised by the opposition, including my own, were in the direction of seeing what his qualifications were for doing the abovementioned work, so to hear what he had planned for the restoration. And the minister has openly admitted to us that he currently needs more time to get to know his sector, although time is the only thing people haven't had in two years because they've long since lost their patience because the reconstruction hasn't gone from a dead end. But let's be well-intentioned, the new man's time has come. A month later, somewhere after that, the minister comes out in the Croatian public with a plan to speed up the reconstruction, as two, we have already had and realized now we are going to speed up and hear some five points, we hear about how communication is crucial for good co-operation, how he will most advocate it and get the impression in the public that the minister knows what weak points are in the system and what it is about. Great, let's let the affairs go. Let's talk about his recovery plan. The opposition, or opposition members of the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, are moving to bring in the Ministers, come to praise what you have praised to the Croatian public, let's really talk about this plan of yours that you have so grandly presented. When the turnover, on the board of directors after a third of the opposition MPs, specifically all the opposition MPs addressed the proposal with the item on the agenda to speed up the reconstruction plan so that the minister would come and we could talk about what he had already presented to the Croatian public, eh, the president of the Board of Experts heard from the minister, not yet, it would take him another month. How do you need it in a month for the test you've already solved? How does it take you a month for the plan you've already shown? The thing is done, we call you to boast, we call you to realize your communication skills that you have established as the key to the recovery progress, to establish dialogue with the Assembly Committee. No, no, the minister needs another month. And what's the only conclusion that comes from all this? The recovery plan...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108500	Excuse me. My colleagues and colleagues, let my colleague Selak Raspadić speak, so let's not do that, please. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108501	The plan to restore the more accurate recovery plan as the marketing plan was called a plan to boast and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself to show us that he brought in a man who knows what he's doing and how he's going to change the system. There is no, there is no, Minister, the new Minister of Paladin is just a simple bluff. He told the public, and when he was due to come with that same plan, he had to present the truth, and it is true that he needed another month. Of course it's now, in a month it'll take him another month. There's so much about it. Will it happen and how that restoration will ever happen. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108502	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108503	I thank the chairman. So, my colleagues and colleagues have mentioned the renovation before, and today I'm going to use this space for a little bit of 10 minutes to talk about who's in charge of our reconstruction and who's headed for the ministry that has all the state property in the portfolio, so the newly-roasted Minister Paladin. In the story of Minister Paladini we have absolutely all the steps of real estate mixing from the HDZ privatisation manual for beginners, privatisation for dummies. There is also the first directorial position at the head of the building giant IGH, then the Russian investor, there is also the sucking up of IGH property through the sale of debts secured by IGH's properties, these debts and bonds secured by valuable properties are sold to comas, factor companies and demand agencies from which then Minister Paladin is now buying these claims for a small part of their value. So here, for example. My colleagues from HDZ to repeat for 27,000 euros buys a claim brought to him by 8 million kuna worth of real estate in Plamotic, meaning 150,000 kuna buys 8 million kuna worth of Palmotic property for them. The IGH, of course, is left without that property. Of course, then he can't buy it because he's the director of IGH so he buys how? As it says in the HDZ privatisation manual for beginners, buy through a lawyer, find a lawyer to buy over it. There is also an inescapable from the 1990s known to us as a partner contract, one of the concepts that enables different fraud and robbery of public companies or private companies that are also revealed to us by HDZ. So, the partner contract of the mother of all HDZ mutineers from the 1990s here Mr. Paladin has such a partner contract with Sergei Gljadelkin and this partner contract guarantees that these bonds secured by the property worth 30 million kuna, which is now the second package, buy, therefore, the ability to buy for 200,000 euros from the citizens of the very well-known Agency for the collection of claims from B2 Capital. Great. I've talked so many times here about EOS Matrix and about B2 Capital and all these claim-paying agencies that buy 10% of the value of our citizens' debts, and then whether these debts are out of date, they're not out of date, of course, charging 100% of the various methods. We talked, and we all agreed that the problem is because it's not regulated, I said that it's not just the fact that it's the citizens that are taking us, that the key problem of these agencies is that they're serving money laundering. And what does your minister's case prove to us? To serve money laundering. So, just over B2 Capital for 200,000 euros Paladin gets 50 valuable properties in Slavonski Brod and will receive the IGH building in Split. There is, of course, his share in the Kupari project, a share which he has failed to collect for two years, and then becomes the minister responsible for the concession for the Kupara which is the only real value of the company because the other values of the company do not have, so now, of course, he negotiates differently with the other co-owners of Kupar because now he is no longer one of the 10 percentage owners alone, but is the minister who keeps their concession in his portfolio. It's in the people, isn't it, a famous saying, which is why whoever's holding it here, we're not going to repeat it here. Now, if this isn't a brief history of HDZ's destruction of the Croatian economy for private real estate empires, I don't know what it is. So, from beginning to end. That's why I asked if you were sure Mr. Paladin wasn't your member because he's like a non-party minister. Because I'm surprised that he downloaded all this methodology developed since the '90s to perfection he developed it. The Ortac Treaty also shows that the Paladin for exit from partnership with Gljadelkin was not paid for the money but by the assets of the company it ran, i.e. the property of the IGH Institute. This, of course, also proves the list of his current assets. In fact, a man of the 60 million kuna value of the property he owns has rightly bought an apartment. All other properties he has in his large portfolio are IGH properties. When IGH was deprived of valuable real estate, by the way, but it was, like, collateral sacrifice, it destroyed the hydroelectric power plant. Hydroelectrics were taken away by different contracts between IGH and Hydroelectrics, all the machines that hydropower then had to rent from IGH and then were later surprised that the hydroelectric power had failed. And they literally left themselves with no basic means to work. And now watch out, we have a minister in charge of the construction sector, of state property and of the reconstruction he participated in, I won't say he's the only one responsible, but he was involved in the destruction of two of Croatia's largest construction companies, IGH and Hydropower. And not only that, but a man now needs to do reconstruction. With who? The construction sector, major companies in Croatia have been destroyed. Who's he gonna do the renovation with? Well, everything to speed up procedures, which we know won't because he doesn't have a time, he has to deal with these affairs, all to do, and we don't have a sector that can do it anymore. We don't even have a sector that can carry out our green transformation and everything we have to do in it to build. We don't have it because it was destroyed by this key and by this privatisation manual. But of course, that's not all, as in that famous commercial, there's more. So one of the very important things is that in all of this, Paladin, namely, led to a loss of at least 12 million kuna pension funds, means pensioners and admit that because of his bond malversions, they lost 12 million kunas, so our citizens, that's their money, and 7.9 million kunas were falsified by the NO Krško decommissioning fund, so the state fund. So he made it along the way and did it. I mean, if anything, people, we have to admit to the man, he's efficient. He's fast. So, the Investigations Index published last week, and this was confirmed by 3 pension funds, as well as the NK Krško Decommissioning Fund, which is precisely because of these decisions, the Minister of Paladin suffered a total loss of 20 million kuna. However, our pension funds do not find it appropriate to search for these 12.5 million kunas, although they know they can legally and admit that they can, but they will not, as long as the pension fund association is still reconsidered. So, Paladin in all of this, this series of investigative journalism has not been able to answer any journalist's inquiry, nor has he explained to the public that all of his assets of 60 million kuna except for that one apartment have managed to be extracted from the IGH. At the same time, it is being investigated by USKOK and DORH, however, it continues to have the support of Prime Minister Plenkovic. And now I repeat, the reason why we said there was no government reconstruction, the point on and it was the Paladin because he was going to go to you in a police car, I'm not sure about any other ministers whose resources are being investigated, from OLAF to others. But Paladin, Paladin must go, and for him is directly the prime minister. Directly prime minister because he chose him, defended him, and on my question how he managed to ask a person who had such a bunch of affairs from day one, he said he didn't have a magic wand to check out what kind of person he was working on, that Paladin told him he could justify everything and he believed him. So we have a minister who became the minister of mothers and we have a prime minister who really is Time... [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108504	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108505	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this speech that I had on behalf of the Club with my colleague Troscott, I touched this important topic that nobody really talked about, I see that today Franak also had a press conference, it is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has stabbed 55,000 citizens who had loans in francs, which they converted in 2015, and which, according to the EU court, the government has actually agreed that they will not be able to claim compensation for this change in the currency clause by signing that conversion. So it's embarrassing, it's high treason behavior. It's about 55,000 people, we can say of 55,000 families, and it's sad to say that no one today except the Bridge in HS is talking about this topic. We will therefore continue to warn this problem, this case is going to the Supreme Court and I hope that the Supreme Court in this case will bring a justice that goes in favour of our citizens, but unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia is actually acting like some kind of branch of banks in the Republic of Croatia, that you will laugh, you have a funny colleague, Deur, but 55 thousand people who had loans in francs are certainly not funny and some say that, in fact, this is a dirty deal between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the banks where the banks gave up the arbitration in Washington, and in return the government gave this opinion to the EU court and then EU Pilateski washed his hands, did not make a decision. So we will fight for all these people, for those 55,000 people to be compensated because neither the banks, nor the teleopers, nor all those you let behave in Croatia as they please, so they cannot behave in the countries where they come from, so we will be with our citizens and we will stand by them. And it's corruption, and it's corruption that we don't have proof that one of you got the money, but we know representatives of which interest groups have access to the government, we know what the connection is between Miss. Mišetic and the key people of Croatian Telekom, we also know about what the Croatian Telekom was doing, and what the Government of Croatia does or does not do about it, what Croatian courts do or do about it, what the state's attorney is doing or not doing about it, and all of it is your butter, all of it is your butter and you, you support and raise your hand every Friday for it. I'm convinced that when you went to war with those ideals you didn't go to war, but I don't know what happened to you in the meantime, I don't know what happened to you, as well as to many, I'd be happy to listen to this one to hear why such a change happened to you. And so also fellow Troscott talked about it, so there's no point in discussing those ministers who left this government for corruption anymore, there's no point in discussing Horvat who ended up in custody, but we're going to be very much discussing those who are sitting in the government today, and there's Minister Beros sitting in the government today, who is being charged with serious corruption and his ministry, but not only that, so these people are 2. and more terrorized us with these unnecessary and excessive measures to come here now that we are all sitting here next to each other and nothing, the coronaryvirus is still there, nothing has changed except our relationship with this virus and thank God and thank the Croatian citizens that they chose us in HS and our fellow sovereigns and others who had a colleague Skor, who had a reasonable relationship with this pandemic because who knows what you would do and what would happen might be similar to some countries, we could see what happened in Australia and New Zealand and Austria, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108506	We have several replicas, respected representative Selak Rasdic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108507	Dear counterpart Grmoja, HDZ is so concerned with people in debt slavery because of credit in Switzerland that during your speech, the chairman of Mr. Reiner of the ruling majority managed to conduct an entire phone conversation while the meeting of the HS he chaired. But I'm asking you something else, how can we be surprised at this when we say what they were most boasting about, which is a housing policy that was supposed to make it easier for our citizens to get to the first real estate, in fact, in favour of the same banks by making the first commitment to a minimum of 15 years, not giving God a shorter loan and then returning, and after that, of course, creating a disturbance on the real estate market, and now people are paying even more than they paid when the state didn't help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108508	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108509	Yes, I don't know what Vice President Reiner and who he called, he may have called the EU court to say that they don't agree here with the opinion of the government that played for the banks, and against Croatian citizens, it would have been nice if he had made such a call, but we won't get carried out, we know that they each Friday and Vice President Reiner and Deur and other colleagues raise their hands regardless of what decisions they were and how much they were against Croatian citizens. Now I'm going to say something unpopular, it's time to stop taxing this hard work in Croatia, and let's think about taxing property, to think about it, I didn't say to introduce it. Why? It happens to us that dirty money is laundered by investment in real estate, real estate prices are growing, so the real estate market isn't active enough and it's almost impossible for our young families to resolve the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108510	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108511	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy, about my patriotism, I've shown it all when I was supposed to, so you and your herd from the Bridge can't supplement me or ask me. The other thing is, you showed on the show with Mr. Representative Capulco who you are and your credibility and your morality. The third thing, when you were in the Bridge of the old one that you half threw out and they ran away from you, and the ministers you chose with Orepić and others you showed that choice of yours and thank God that the Croatian people will not give you the opportunity to destroy the list of properties, go ahead and I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108512	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108513	Thank you. So this one I see upset you with this question of mine, otherwise you wouldn't be using who the hard words are and calling the MOST herd, but good if this is it, it's your choice free. And when we talk about my colleague Kapulica, my colleague Kapulica did not meet our agreement, my colleague Kapulica hid somewhere the same thing as his godfather Puklin kept 4 million kuna Dragan Kovacevic in his garage, and a leg of the Janaf affair revealed that the same Puklin was sending the Capulaica messages in which that Fadljević said that I brought you to lunch and we set him up in the office in Croatia lottery. Do you know a colleague of Deur who was doing Fadljević there? He was director of logistics setting up the businesses of Flexbit, which is owned by Kapulika's godmother Puklin and Fadljević himself. So don't talk about it, it won't go well. You'll pass as barefoot on the thorn If you wake up... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108514	Thank you very much. Comrade Deur, I'm just distracting you that you've already got two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108515	That's my colleague Grumoja I can't stay quiet. Article 238, Your Honor, all you know is that you have the opportunity to know the institutions, report whoever it is, there's no problem. It's your business and your duty as a citizen not only as a representative. That's the first thing. The other thing, I was just expressing what you said and you bet what Mr. Capula said in the assembly, that you lost the credibility of the MPs. You come here to accuse and insult each other. You know it's not pleasant to tell the truth about someone. You've been persistent for years, that's your main statement. Lies and insults and simple, and you yourself know when Prime Minister Plenkovic ran there like a rabbit per assembly. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108516	This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I need to give you a reminder under Article 240(2) by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108517	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear comrade Grmoya, of course, you're right when you say it is, that we can suspect some combination with the banks they pulled, that in the end and the State's Attorney's office found we had a chance to read it, slowly before, in Washington weighs $4.5-5 billion, so when anyone heard the banks swear to give up. We get warnings for 0.35 lipa Zagrebačka banka sending, and now we would give up 4.5-5 billion possible. We need to investigate, see how Alexic does it. And what worries me more at the end now, do you have any information why we tried 200 doses of vaccines for the Croats to order and then Capak's deputy lady said she made 127 doses, for which they ordered it, and where it stands. Do you have any knowledge, you've been informed of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108518	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108519	Well, unfortunately, I don't have any knowledge, but it definitely needs to be stopped because it doesn't make any sense. So the person who was vaccinated and the person who was going to vaccinate was vaccinated. I don't think the citizens will go into those extra booster doses. We're now looking at 60% of the hospitalized data has been vaccinated. So, so whoever is at an older age, who is in danger of this one, and if he decides to vaccinate, but for children, what the President of the European Commission is now announcing again, certainly won't, will not vaccinate us, nor will we allow it. And as for the colleagues of Deura and Capula, let him take a look at it, I call back HDZ's men that Capula and I bet, and they'll see that Capula didn't keep his promise. And if you're interested in a little more Janaf affair, I'd be happy to share the details with you, it's not very pleasant for a fellow Hood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108520	On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Zeljko Pavić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108521	I thank the chairman. I'm going to try to do a little bit of cross-section to hear and see why we've actually launched these two proposals. If we start from last year, the end of last year when we were making a budget, we said the budget wasn't good, that too little funds were being reserved for the Ministry of Health. What happened? Everyone claimed from the ruling majority that's fine, that's determined, it's been three months of the new year and in healthcare we have minus 5 billion kuna. So it was a bad assessment. The government misjudged, the government proposed a bad budget. If we're talking about the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, we had here a few weeks ago on the table of social welfare laws. Unfortunately, most of them accepted it, voted for it, today the law is not enforceable, and most of the social care offices have problems because they simply don't know how to pay off the funds. Furthermore, we can talk about the Ministry of Defense here for days. We have a minister who presented his position as soon as the drone landed in Zagreb that upsets all our citizens. Afterwards, he claimed there was a 120-pound bomb inside, and then, overnight, there were 80 kilos of explosives missing, and he claimed that there were 40 kilos of explosives inside. Well, now those who were in the army who knew what a 25-pound knight or dynamite was, here's the general and the other generals know what a five-pound explosive would do there, not 40-pound explosives. So we have one man who's not competent, unfortunately. It tells things that don't stand. He doesn't need to know, but he shouldn't and should not disturb the public with the wrong and wrong information. Shall we talk about the Ministry of Science and Education? It's been a few months since the budget was passed, and they came here with a proposal to take a new loan from the World Bank. Of course, it's being delayed, it's not going to be brought back by this government. He'll be paid by another government in another term. Grace period, if I'm not mistaken, it's been six years. Furthermore, to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. We talked here several times about the problems that happened there, when I asked the minister what about those 39 million kunas that were spent on information, and the results were gone, the fact is that it wasn't her fault but the minister before that, she told me about the beds. How many new beds are installed and how many new beds are paid to come to Croatia. I didn't ask her that. I asked her where the money was. Why was the money spent on what was not to be spent? Shall we mention the Ministry of Agriculture? 30, or sorry, were spent on the Slavonia project at the time the minister submitted a report, over 20 billion kuna. At the same time, with the spending of 20 billion kunas from Slavonia, 40,000 inhabitants were evicted. So who did we give that money to? Who spent that money? What did he spend it for? When I asked the minister where the people were, she said we had more sheep. Literally, you can check on the video. That was her answer. Do we want to go to the Health Department? I already mentioned, we have currently minus 5 billion for drugs only. We have a problem with the treatment of our people, people are waiting a year to get a checkup. The problems are getting bigger and bigger. We also hear about some of the malfeasances that are happening, alleged malfeasances, I can't say, I can't say, I haven't seen, for some alleged malversions when buying equipment. That's a big problem. That's because the ministers aren't good at this government, because the government isn't good, because we all see it, not that we feel it or we assume it, but we and 68% of the population in the Crodemoscope polls, see that the country is going in the wrong direction, that's why we asked for this initiative to be launched, and that's why we gave the signatures, to try to change it, to go to elections, and to make it work differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108522	Thank you. We have replicas, respected representative Maric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108523	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here, you've cut off everything we have against individual ministers or ministries. When a man prepares a little for this debate today, but also some of the previous discussions, he actually sees how much he has. So the most, normally, I know the health care system and I know a lot about it, but this is all we've heard and what we're reading from other ministries is really worrying. That's a lot. I know that colleagues from this side of the assembly are certain that this point of ours will not pass, however, and they should be concerned too. I'd be blushing if I were, like, a member of the ruling option, and every once in a while, having affairs out of certain ministries. So now we have witnessed the shift of the 3rd Minister, do you, forcibly, think that this is all we are saying and what it is our duty to warn, just as the media do, will it still encourage Minister Plenkovic to consider whether his government can go on like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108524	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108525	First of all, let me warn you, I was just trying to draw attention to the most important things, not everything. Today, this whole day will not be enough for us to list all those affairs that relate to this government and these ministers that remain in the government. We know for the new ministers, she just had a colleague's debate, so she listed one part that's attached to the new minister. Unfortunately, I don't understand how such a minister can come at all in short notice. A man with so many affairs, with so many problems to get into a narrow choice and to be presented here by the prime minister without a problem, that's really weird. In one of my discussions, I told the prime minister that no one can challenge his knowledge of foreign policy, his internal policy, but his human policy is a disaster and he should find a new, new person to choose people because this can't go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108526	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108527	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Pavić. So that's where you mentioned and referred to our Minister of Health and the topic of wholesalerry. I can only compare it with one movie that I like to refer to often, which is when a monkey lifts a stone, under a stone sees a snake and faints. And all right, he fell for the first time, but when he wakes up unconscious, he raises the stone again, sees that snake again and falls unconscious again. We've had this topic of wholesaler, we'll have a second and a third time. And you know why? Because someone doesn't do their job. 'Cause if someone was doing their job, we wouldn't be arguing about the biggies at one point. So it's easy to say and drill into your chest and talk about reforms. Reforms are sleeping out there somewhere in someone's, in some impasses of someone's reality. The health reform was first the prime minister's fault, because, well, he delivered it, and it wasn't. Do you even see the possibility of any reform in this government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108528	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108529	It's really hard to answer this question. In fact, if we remind ourselves that the prime minister had a health reform table about a year ago according to the minister, it is obvious that the prime minister is slowly reading and making very slow decisions. If that reform was on the table, if it was good, I don't know why it hasn't started yet. We will have, and again, we will now settle all these debts if we want to have medicines for our fellow citizens, if we want hospitals to work for us, if we want the ambulances to work, we will give money from the budget, or we will take credit, we will probably take credit for doing so and making a budget that what needs to be financed by party colleagues who are somewhere to get money for their local, local self-government units, it will be spent, and for what we have to do for our population, we will take credit. However, if we want the prime minister to do something, we need to run these initiatives maybe two and five and seven times, to finally get to his ears. And not just to his rather than to those who bring [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Human policy in the government. [[Intruder: Honored Representative Shashin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108530	Insect: Honorable Representative Shaslin./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108531	Dear colleague Pavic, dear Vice President. Well, I had to react, and indeed, when you mentioned the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. You said 20 billion, and yet 40 thousand people moved out. Tell me, how many people do you think would have moved out if that 20 billion hadn't been invested? You are aware of the situation in Slavnia and Baranja in 2000 and after the Homeland War, etc. How much more famous and Baranja is behind the rest of Croatia. Are you aware of what strategic projects these are, from the highway, from the reconstruction of railway lines, from different centres, of 400 new kindergartens are open there. Are you aware that if there were no project that would be happening in Slavonia and Baranja, what would a demographic image look like there today? If you're public, tell the public that you're against this project more famously and Baranja, then say it publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108532	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108533	Your Honor. Don't mix pears and apples, I was talking about farm incentives. So what you're talking about here is highways, roads, kindergartens, that's got nothing to do with it. It has to do with the 20 billion spent, but they're given to the wrong people. So 20 billion kunas are divided into people in Slavonia, and yet the people of Slavonia have moved out. They got highways, but they moved out. They got roads, but they moved out, they got kindergartens, but they moved out. Where's he stopped? Which part? Look what it looks like to you. A little card and you'll see how wrong you are and don't defend what's indefensible. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Here she is, said the minister here alone for this pay phone said, we gave 20 billion, but still people left because money was divided into the wrong people by the wrong criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108534	Thank you very much. Here, we've got a little bit of a mistake. Please, follow what's going on, don't let it happen to you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Mrak-Taritaš, and afterwards, the respected representative of Oreković, please. First respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108535	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ governments this country had a lot and too much, although they all have one thing in common since 1990 to this day, it is that they have been having an affair after each other. The suspicions of corruption, court proceedings to ministers, and even to the prime minister, the inadequacy and the rightful verdicts from peeling potatoes to prison sentences, these are HDZ governments, these are HDZ ministers and even one prime minister. Andrej Plenkovic came with a promise, and here in the Parliament he said he would transform HDZ. Instead of transforming him, he was able to achieve a new record, surpassing all his predecessors. Namely, to this current government of his, it has never happened that one minister in the ministry directly replaces the Remitin. Minister Horvat, there it is, and he did it. However, even these affairs, even these suspicious affairs of judicially proven abuse, are not what the main problem is. The main problem is they're incompetent. This government is in no condition for any serious work that has taken place or done as it belongs or to be completed. That's the main problem, and that's why this government and this majority should leave. We need a new mix of cards, new elections and a chance for citizens to decide whether or not such policies suit them, such ministers and most or not. I recently requested a thematic meeting of the Committee on Economy with the topic of energy supplies. The materials and information we received seemed pink. We have everything, we stand better than most EU countries, the LNG term on Krk is a magic wand that will disappear all our problems as a bubble of soap. And then a European network of transmission system operators for gas publishes a report in which we are among the worst in the EU, which predicts that in the event of a gas shortage, we will not fill more than 30% of our warehouses by winter. And the member of that network that gave that information is our company Plinacro, a state-owned company. And then what's the truth? What does the government or the roof organization at Union level assure us of? We don't know, but that's the problem. The Ministry of Economy sent no unusual statement saying that the data in the report from before the LNG terminal, and this report also mentions the LNG terminal in as many as 5 places. So the reaction is unconvincing and unsettling, and most worrying. We still have no idea what our readiness to face the consequences of war in Ukraine and sanctions Russia. Are we going to have gas in the fall or winter, we don't know, will we fill the warehouses in time, if it takes them 3 months to fill up to 90% of their capacity? We have no idea. Do we trust the government to start preparations in time and in the right way? Of course we don't. What our willingness to deal with the consequences of the crown was like, unfortunately, we saw. Among the most dead and least vaccinated in the world, communication 0, strategy 0, results 0. Minister Beroš, for that time, while people were dying the most, and at least the vaccines managed to lower as small as possible, the larger affairs with millions of kunas he doesn't know why they were actually paid for, but he knows who. The minister's friend. Millions for an application that didn't work, millions for a company whose employees managed to do 112 hours a day. But maybe I should go back to Minister Horvat from the beginning of this story. The man who led the greatest shame, not these, but all the governments in the history of this country, the restoration after the earthquake, after he got out of custody probably slams his head against the wall and wonders God who they replaced me with, and he's probably right if any replacement in HDZ's governments is even worse than the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108536	On behalf of the promoter, he will now, on behalf of the club, continue the respected representative Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108537	Dearly beloved, nothing new will be heard by our citizens in this debate about the HDZ government which they had not heard before and knew. Everything that is dirty and corrupt has long been published by the media. Although it is not a bad thing to do all this again, it is undeniable that this will not cause HDZ's authority to fall, HDZ or ratings will not be more seriously threatened, however, in the same way that HDZ's parliamentary majority rather than respecting its constitutional obligation to oversee and control it. Likewise, HDZ voters feel that they do not mind and do not harm all this devastation that took place under HDZ rule. In the past 30 years, HDZ has turned Croatia into its own community, and it uses the government as an opportunity for prey, for the kidnapping of everything that does not belong to them. I therefore believe that since this is nothing new, this should not be a debate on ministers, nor on this corrupt relationship between such authorities and their voters, this should be a debate on the work of the Croatian Parliament, its role and purpose. And if we want to explain to voters why this congregation needs to be dissolved, then we should also tell them what makes the next congregation different and better. So, not to those HDZ voters who have already lost hope of fighting with us for better power whenever there is an election. And the HDZs just on the way to say that this initiative will not fall because it is our opposition, but it is the right opposition voices little bit, but because they are those, those who keep this power alive by guarding their parliamentary chairs, the privileges of the parliamentary mandate, and their electoral body and their electoral base are their jobs, their business relations, their system of clientism, nepotism and relationships. Such is Croatia under HDZ rule from day one to day. And I'm going back to the question why does this congregation have to disband? Well, because he lost his basic constitutional role. He was humiliated in his constitutional role, and Croatian citizens were also humiliated along with the Croatian Assembly. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia puts the Croatian Parliament first as a representative body of citizens, as the holder of the legislative authority, as a body that oversees and elects the Croatian government. None of this is in the work of the Croatian Parliament anymore. In this hall next to us, it is the hall of Ante Starčevića there is a large picture, it is called the Bringing of the First Croatian Constitution on 22 December '90. A year. In this picture, the meeting room is full, and if one solemn moment is painted on it, which is still different from the usual discussion, the picture shows everything that the Croatian Parliament today is not. The parliament simply stopped being the place where the main political debates were held, the place where the most important political decisions were made. And what, then, is some kind of guarantee that we can offer the opposition that the next assembly will be different and better? Well, the first thing we should promise is that we're not gonna put people on the list who don't have their own self, who aren't able to tell their party boss or minister that it's just a ball. The second thing we can promise is that we will change the Rules of Procedure and the rules of procedure. That we will give a greater role in legislative interventions to the parent councils, but that there will be no 30 unnecessary ones as they are now, but that there will be the number of resolution ministries, so that each parent committee will monitor and control its minister. This unnecessarily unnecessary number of constituency committees with imaginary names serves only to give one of the MPs another additional constituency chair and some pay raises and a certain satisfaction and some false picture of themselves and the importance they don't actually have. We can also commit that the assembly will have greater initiatives and that it will oblige the government to respect the conclusions and instructions of the assembly, otherwise it will be removed. The parliament must become a place of competence because the incompetent assembly is also politically impotent and the only thing in such a assembly is no matter who sits on this chair behind me because the main criterion of entanglement is that the wrinkle is compared to the power of the party boss. Such a Croatian Parliament does not need our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108538	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, a respected representative, Ivanovic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Oreshkovic injured Article 238, her pathological hatred for HDZ is a scientific and medical problem. I'm not a doctor, so I can't help her, but she'll have to explain to the voters first which party she belongs to and the other one will have to explain to voters when Kovacevic got out of prison why he first mentioned her name as kneeling and begged him to cooperate with her. When she explains it, I believe voters will be able to approve it and verify it in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108540	It is, of course, the political party who is not legally convicted of a corrupt crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108541	Of course it wasn't, colleague, colleague Oreshkovic, please! I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108542	I didn't even ask you for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108543	All right, you're getting a warning too, and, of course, my colleague Ivanovic gets a warning. The Honorable Representative Shashin has a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108544	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. In 238, colleague Oreskovic practically insults all members of HDZ and myself personally, especially us who have been members since '89-'90. When we entered the party because all we cared about was what was in front of HA was HDZ, and the vast majority of you who are sitting there have actually changed a few parties in all these years, I honestly don't even know which party you're currently in, you watched when you were only going in how you're going to take your personal interests... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108545	Okay, colleague, colleague, colleague Shashin this one wasn't the same, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Let's stop with the wrong violations of the Rules of Procedure, please. You're pulling, thank you. [[I'll pull, I'll pull, I'll pull, I'll pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna pull, I'm gonna ……]] This esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash is pulling the same back, thank you very much. This one will now speak on behalf of the motionary, honourable representative Ivana Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108546	Thank you. I hope I don't get a diagnosis of some incurable hatred for the HDZ that started sharing here, and here I am going to start, I will go specifically with the minister, by the minister, the first one I'm going to touch is Minister Bozinovic. So a month ago, the European Court of Human Rights of the Republic of Croatia found guilty of the death of a girl named Madina Hussiny, a girl who was barely 6 years old. and which Croatian police illegally expelled in the middle of the night through the railway along with the family in Serbia, did not even allow them to seek asylum. I repeat, the European Court of Human Rights has made a decision saying that it is about the fact that the Republic of Croatia has violated the right to the life of a 6-year-old girl. I think you're very concerned, we can also see from the statement made by Minister Beros for unborn children, so let me remind you, this was a living six-year-old born child. Okay. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights condemned the Republic of Croatia because it systematically, systematically and organisedly covered up the crime because they deleted evidence, videos, etc., because it called on activists to talk to the police where they were being intimidated, it condemned her because her brave lawyer Sanja Jelavic Bezbradica, also the Croatian police were threatening and trying to install false evidence, convicted her because the Croatian state had cut off 60 thousand kunas for helping the families of Madina Hussein. The European Court of Human Rights has condemned all this by the Republic of Croatia. But the condemnation of the Republic of Croatia in this case is, above all, the condemnation of the police, which was led and led by Minister Davor Bozinovic, a minister who did not apologize to anyone, who did not stand before us who are citizens of this country who were convicted of taking the right to live a 6-year-old girl. No, it's the minister who even complained about the verdict, so they told him again that we were guilty because it's not weird because that Minister Bozinovic could offer an apology and show his condolences in this situation that would mean that he would have to believe that the police did not act properly, and we know that this is not the case because other migrants are being expelled by the Croatian police besides little Madonna. In 2018, a UNHCR report warned that Croatian police were systematically pushing, beating and robbing migrants at their borders. In the first half of the year, about 2,500 of them were rejected by 700 live births. If you don't believe the UNHCR report, you must believe your own eyes. We all watched, not just us, he watched the whole world of footage of Croatian police officers in Croatian uniforms beating up migrants and hunting them with pendejos in the woods. What does that tell us? So this tells us specifically that Madina was not an incident, Madina's death is the result of policy implementation, and politics has not been brought by individual police officers, politics has been brought by the government's competent ministry that has to go. Politicu was brought by a minister with a name and name named Davor Bozinovic. So the European Court of Human Rights ruling goes to the address of the government, goes to the address of the MUP and goes to the address of Davor Bozinovic, the address of the minister goes to the fact that the Croatian state in which the government believes it has the right to trample on human lives, that it has the right, and even the duty to trample on human dignity. If it's not for the Minister's resignation, I really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108547	We have a replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108548	Thank you. My colleague Kekin, we have therefore followed the case of little Madonna from, from this tragic event to finally this resolution at the European Court of Human Rights. What is the fact is that, apart from Minister Bozinović and the police who were covering up and in fact made it impossible to investigate what is now, what is now confirmed here has indeed undermined the entire Croatian judiciary of DORH, the constitutional court, etc., so here I see the responsibility of Minister Bozinovic, but also other ministers in the government, and especially Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has been lurking at all times, and they knew, and how did they know? They knew not only about the incident, they knew about all other incidents reported by the EU's most prominent public television, EU member states and outsiders, for example. Switzerland, so how come not once did Prime Minister Plenkovic condemn such a practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108549	Thank you. Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108550	Thank you for the replica of my colleague Bencic. So I think I agree with you not only that the public houses were reporting television, but they were also reporting the most significant societies like UNHCR, and they were clearly talking and talking about it now. I think the reason why Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Bozinovic are unable to stand before Croatian citizens and all others and apologize for the incidents is that these are not incidents for them, but that they are systematic and systematic implementation of a violent policy of deterrence at Croatian borders. I think that's the plan. I think it's a strategy. And I think, of course, it's scandalous that it's a violation of basic human rights directed by the state government. And yes, I think that, with all these other reasons that we have cited and that we will also point out because we see that human rights are being violated daily in Croatia, too, the reason that this government finally goes away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108551	On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108552	Speaking of refugees, it is interesting to see the hypocrisy of the ruling majority, which declaredly takes great care of the rights and position of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia. However, when the Parliamentary Committee on Gender Equality decided to put on the agenda precisely because of the extremely large number of female Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia and underage children representing more than 85% of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia, calling on all relevant institutions to be seen about the acceptance, needs and problems of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia, which makes HDZ so concerned about the acceptance of Ukrainian refugees, because we know that Ukraine's main political forte of the current prime minister, the Ukrainian community, NGOs and all other relevant institutions, which makes HDZ so much concerned with the acceptance of Ukrainian refugees, because we know that Ukraine's main political forte of the current prime minister, who has been waving with it as some kind of own flag that doesn't serve to take care of the difficult situation in which these people have found themselves, rather than to dehumanise themselves and dehuminate themselves, has generally called them political purposes. So what did they do when this debate that was long and seriously prepared came to the agenda of the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality? Now, at that moment, the prime minister remembered, and for that is the responsibility of this assembly, more specifically, those who are currently chairing him, that he must change three ministers overnight. He couldn't for weeks, he couldn't for months, and then he had to do it in five minutes, that famous simultaneous. So what did he do? He put it, of course, at the time of the Assembly Committee. So that only three members of the Committee on Gender Equality, including myself, could attend the Assembly Committee, because the rest were scattered on the committees that had to question, specifically from the HDZ, to defend the new ministers. Therefore, the de facto debate on the acceptance and needs of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Macedonia with all relevant institutions has been sabotaged by HDZ because the topic is second-rate in relation to the HDZ Simultaneous, which wanted to cover up the shame of changing three ministers as soon as possible because of potential corruption affairs. Some of them, more specifically the vice-presidents of the government, were later served in the Croatian Parliament because they are not good enough for the government to investigate them, but they are good enough of course for the Croatian Parliament because there are obviously no criteria for which someone in the Croatian Parliament should or should not be. So if you're doing that in those issues that you send a picture to the public that matters to you, what you're doing in all those situations where you're not even trying to make your image look better than it is. Here, on a concrete example here, I can say that in what way this committee has had the opportunity and should point to the acceptance of needs and problems, mostly the problems for the first time systematically at the level of the institutions in the Croatian Parliament that the HDZ Simultaneous entire debate has fallen into the second plan or almost disappeared from the plan and that this session at the level of sensitization of the public can be said to have failed. There, it is your contribution to the acceptance, needs and awareness of the problems of Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia. So you guys keep waving that flag off the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108553	We have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108554	I won't stick to the stories of Ukraine, I think we've all said everything together by voting for a declaration that passed here almost unanimously with one abstention and there are both ruling and opposition being completely clear. What fascinates me with this ruling majority that I repeat will be once again formed by the electoral minority together with the representatives of minorities is this paradoxical combination of extreme stability because there is no thing that will happen without them being able to swallow with their stomachs and cheeks, and on the other hand, the most fragile because we do not know from, not from week to week, but from day to day which of the ministers will remain on the tree and which leaf will fly away. Well, less than three months ago, we heard a sentence from the Prime Minister from here, and you can plant your eyelashes, remember, I'm not taking off any of the ministers, so three of them are gone for different reasons. One because of fatigue, the other because it doesn't harm the government's reputation, and for the council it's okay, the third for the same reason. How long? I'm afraid this leads to a devastation... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108555	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108556	A new function of the interim minister has now been invented, and as the pool of potential HDZ ministers has fallen significantly at an incredible rate, we may soon have an institution-a-minister from the opposition ranks, so people will be borrowed because there is no one currently to occupy a key place in the government since they do not find enough people in their ranks. What worries most about it is the collapse of any criteria for becoming a minister. We have already discussed in the debates on behalf of the club that everyone in Croatia may become a minister for 15 minutes, it is no longer clear to anyone, and when we saw how much Minister Paladin was sent with the recovery itself and who refused to do anything before him whether there is one criterion that is of professional nature, and to take up such an important function in the country, therefore first incompetence, and only then corruption is the underlying problems of this current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108557	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108558	Thank you very much, Vice President. On December 15th, he remained involved with his colleague, Grmoji, and he said the anthological words "we did this very badly, we turned everything against ourselves". I'm giving you a chance, now you've got a microphone on, to admit that you've done this very badly, that you've turned everything against yourself, and we'll forgive you, so let's slowly separate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108559	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108560	It's funny, really, that the microphone was on, so you could hear my answer, and that was that we didn't do anything wrong, that this was all pre-directed. It is interesting that on a concrete debate in the lack of arguments about an important topic that you would like to have an opinion, which has been sabotaged, which is where the problems are encountered by Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Croatia, you are returning to some kind of turned-on or off microphones to potentially incriminate us as persons here. Once again you confirm how much you really care about the real problems involved in the opposition and about which the opposition is speaking, and how important it is for you to deal with persons in opposition without focus on content because you cannot mate in content, which is not what I regret, but whose consequences are the citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108561	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108562	Thank you. Here is the sad thing when a colleague Ivanovic in a debate in which he is trying to pair us from Club Mosta lists as an example of something where the Bridge has succeeded, so I was worried that we were attacked by all and the meaning of the left and ruling who were against our referendum, yet we managed to collect a sufficient number of signatures. You then well concluded that it was not us who were responsible for these attacks, but that these attacks were most likely agreed, but in the end here it turned out good for Croatian citizens and for us a sufficient number of signatures was collected. Do you think this is a delay with actually a referendum where citizens long ago mean that it was, we ended up in January and handed over the signatures whether this delay is also a reason for disbanding this government's parliament and falling?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108563	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108564	If someone asked me to bet on the most likely scenario why they're currently stalling with those results, we could say so by considering the constitutional court on our referendum issues, I'd say the scenario is next. The Constitutional Court said, and look, we understand what you want from HDZ, you'd like to bring down both questions, but here we really can't, we can't both, we may succeed one, but we both can't, and if you kill us we won't survive as experts. The HDZ, of course, asked to bring down both questions, and then when they said e, but away from this it's not going, then they said sorry, sorry didn't say sorry, they'd rather threaten, it's not a good political moment, so at least delay that decision, we'll find a more favourable time out there when nothing else is going on in the summer when everyone's on vacation to get this under the grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108565	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108566	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, our Parliamentary Committee on Equality of the Committee often coincides with other sessions or other committees. There is often no quorum on our board when there are no other committees, so when there are no sittings, and most often the quorum is held by members of the HDZ. As far as the opposition is concerned, she's the one who's most often working on our board and sabotaged you. And when you spoke of the three members who were present on the committee with you, I think it is correct to say that there were two members of the HDZ, so the two of us from the HDZ and you as chairman, while I was looking at the members and members of our committee and the other committees that were sitting and I think it was time for the members of the opposition parties to join us on this really important topic, the thematic session of our Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108567	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108568	To be precise, there was no quorum since the 20th session held on the board. However, what you were saying, what you were referring to, my criticism is not addressed to you, and I am glad that you and the vice president were there, but is directed towards what you were referring to, and in one of the next discussions, I will refer to the work of the assembly and concrete proposals to improve it, not to say that the opposition is not constructive, to one who manages the way the entire work of the committee will go, and not to go parallel and how the schedule will take place, and that is the ruling majority, so I am not the problem which of the other committees, who of most MPs was on the committee itself, but why these people are both from opposition and from the ruling majority brought into the situation that I cannot attend the committee meetings because of so many parallel meetings of the other committees, because everything has been violently over the order, during the night, suffered in order to perform this symutate around the minister's shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108569	Dear representative and vice president of this house Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108570	One small contribution to this debate that has begun, one truly scandalous detail that I must share with you when we talk about the abuse of the assembly of parliamentary deputies. Two or three months ago, a meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy was held with a video link to a certain Plazonic, state secretary at the ministry. A health reform has been announced in the debate, which is what it is, he... It broadly says if you want to know what health system reform will look like, join the HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, one example really is the arrogant one, not only the arrogant one, but the politically obscenities of the highest legislative body in this country and the people who represent the people and the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108571	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108572	If you ask me, I'm going to make a separate commitment to this in the next debate because I continued here because my colleague Kekin opened the refugee issue, and I've been trying to keep some kind of thematic whole with this current issue of acceptance of Ukrainian refugees. If you're really asking me what's the biggest problem of this ruling structure, it's decoupling the dignity and even the work of the assembly. We had a serious problem with that, too. We are not the lowest-ranked institution in the country because it is determined that this must be done rather than because of various tricks, I will point out the specifics that make it impossible for us in our work to have such humiliating answers because we are not actually serving anything, where we are completely passive, which is why citizens rightly react to it as about what we need this at all. This then fails at all to be a constructive contribution to creation It's the law, it's the fight, and someone's responsible for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108573	Now, on behalf of the Fokus Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the respected representative, Damir Bajs, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108574	... Club Focus and independent representatives, I say actually a position related to the Proposal for a Decision on the Disband of the Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I must stress that we are one of the subsignors of this proposal and that there is a reason why we are behind it. First and foremost, it is clear that this is not about disbanding parliaments, but about changing the government of the Republic of Croatia and it is written in an explanation. The position that is now in power has been said two things so far. Most of them are stable, 76 or 78 votes about anything. Let's be optimistic coalition partners have said several times that in some situations they may not vote with the majority, whether it will be this we will see, but the other part that they argue should not go into this decision is that elections are expensive. The elections are never more expensive, and apparently that is what HDZ thinks because Minister Miletic, Piletic is actually the Mayor of Novska and Novska going to the new elections. And they don't have a problem with the price of it or anything else, so if it's not expensive for Novska to choose a new mayor safely for the Republic of Croatia to choose a new government. And when I talk about it, then I'll point out that we're talking about the government and we're talking about the prime minister. The prime minister of course chooses his associates. They say he may be the first among the equals, but not to the end, he chooses his associates. Over 25 ministers went through his government and left. In that picture that has been shown many times, there are only three or four ministers who have survived through all these governments. I must stress that it is most important and that is why we signed it in front of Focus are actually the government's results in view of such a long term. The Prime Minister said my greatest achievement was the Pelje Bridge, and I was facing great challenges. Well, the Peljek Bridge is not unnecessary, but let's hear a little bit about these challenges because the Croatian government is ruling. It is responsible for the situation in society, and these challenges were clearly said, pandemics and restorations, or earthquakes that hit Croatia. And when we talk about the results of the government, Croatia, then we can all... Underline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, when we talk about the pandemic of the Coronary, Croatia reportedly fought a great fight against the Coronal. This struggle was such that the measures changed from week to week, day to day, the approaches changed, the events changed, and our headquarters was extremely active. However, in this very Croatian Assembly, we received a report on the results of this struggle. Namely, on the day the Minister of Health explained the results of Croatia was the first in the world after a week coincidence with the coronal virus. Is that how we did it, then, if, which is the problem, perhaps in Croatian citizens, perhaps in health care, but perhaps in managing the problem that the prime minister himself has identified as what followed him through this mandate? And in particular now we're eight in the world by mortality. So now a man asks the question of what is the result of this struggle and these problems that have arisen before this government? The prime minister didn't boast of it, he just said the Peljeski bridge. The other thing is, of course, about the recovery and the earthquake that hit us. Should we say that we are not the first country to have a major disaster in the EU, that we are one of the many countries that have experienced this, but also that nothing is said much about this because it has been shown that Croatia is, after withdrawing the funds that have been granted to us and that the deadlines have been extended, in fact, at this moment, the last in EU history. This actually means that one Romanian, Poland, Germany or any other EU country that has been in the same situation has dealt with it in a short time. What does that mean for those who are in Banja? Those in the city of Zagreb or Zagreb County or perhaps Krapina-Zagorje County mean that the objects that should have been made are not, that they did not, that neither the conditions needed, and that the HNK could have been built in a year, and we cannot build one house in 2 years. Well, the prime minister wouldn't show himself about it. Now, we have one more thing. In 6 years hence, the previous government of Croatia was mostly, not entirely, but most of it was gone by 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Over 11%. What kind of citizens are they? Well, these are the ones that are working, people for families, and when you look at the demographic structure, they make up over 15% of the total of Croatian working people. And now we come before what, who will lead us to the greatest challenge? According to the EU and EU Commission report, it is clear that the economic crisis that is coming is not short-lived. It's supposed to take three or four years. The data that we had and that we presented, that we would have, for example, 7.5% of GDP increases and 2.5% of inflation, turned around. And this moment we, if we're lucky, will have 2.5% increase in GDP and at least 7% so inflation. As things stand, there will be even more inflation. What does that really mean? The media are saying that the average standard of Croatian citizens will decrease by 50% in those 3 years. It's a challenge. I won't be such a pessimist. However, the figures are clear. If the salary rises 4%, the economy stands in place and it lasts for 3 years, 3 times 10 is 300%, 10 percent goes pay growth, so for at least 1 fifth or 1 quarter each Croatian citizen will have a smaller, I would say, standard. That's what we need, we'll need to pay attention. Who's going to lead us in that, and it's not going to be one year, not two, but at least, the way things are now, four years. The government gave a plan of measures before Ukraine, before this new data. After that, however, nothing. We expect new measures and new activities. Only if what the governor of the National Bank of Croatia said is yes, which is a recommendation for inflation. Let's go shopping where it's cheaper. If it's a message from the CNB government, the state, then it's not a policy we can support, it's like we're talking about Alan Ford, not something else. And how we're gonna get those 400,000 people back if our standard falls that far. It can only be the other way around. It could be more people. Therefore, a review of the election, a new parliament, a new government that will respond to these challenges and a prime minister who will not say I had challenges, but does not want to say that he has solved them. That's what we want. And no, it's not expensive, for neither Novska nor for the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if that's gonna happen. This one would say, which I said is statistics and the reality of life. And no, we are not here to be the last in the EU for anything, and not now, as things are almost everything and therefore the elections are necessary, and that must precede, of course, what? H.S. Disengagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108575	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108576	Good afternoon, everyone. I come right from the verdict of Filip Draca, a young man who drew a sickle and hammer at the foot of the statue Franji Tudjman, and that is the first case that a first-degree sentence is obtained for graphics in Croatia, meaning the Criminal Court, meaning not a crime, but a prosecution for the man who drew the sickle and the hammer that was wiped out, practically by hand. It's political persecution. It's also one of the reasons why we need to change this government. And when we heard here in the morning a series of estimates that it was an incompetent government, that it was ministers who were incompetent, I would warn them that they were doing exactly what they were paid for. They're mercenaries who do what they do why they get a mandate. They're here to protect their own interests and interests of the groups that put them in that place and they do it very well, they're not incompetent, they're really focused on what they're assigned as a task. Well, Minister Horvat, who has been warned for years by the Workers' Front that one of the worst ministers, if we can hold that ladder, is that, in any case, a degree, he was really bad. When we warned that it was responsible for the destruction of the Uljaniks, when the oil workers prayed that 150 thousand kunas were given to them to end the yoke in Pula that would allow for further production, maintenance of production that would prevent bankruptcy and cancellation of thousands of people, then they said that there was no money, that it was a bottomless bag, even though it was, of course, a bottomless bag, that we understood and that the money was always going in the wrong pockets, they ended up in terms of shipyards and they didn't give the money, at that moment we find out, at that moment Minister Horvat with his associate was exchanging SMS messages and he was responding to one of your choices, thinking of companies that had just received such amounts, 200,000, 250,000 kuna, companies that did not know how much of our economy and how much more competitive our economy were getting through the connections. What I want to warn you is that apart from being people who are extremely capable and who are working for their own benefit, they are actually implementing government policy. And I would like that criticism of that government to focus not only on those reports that we are now commenting on here and the fact that it's about people who are actually under investigation right now because it's only because they're mercenaries who are put in place to destroy the last levers of our development and the possibilities of our development, and I would like to read the affirmative proposals of this government, not only to look at USKOK investigations, let's read the recovery plan and resilience that stands there, there says to improve corporate governance of state-owned enterprises under the State-owned project restructuring of state-owned companies. The objective is to sell shares, i.e. shares to companies that are not on the list of companies of particular interest, etc., etc. So we in the affirmative programs themselves have a corporateization of companies that are in the hands of the state, which may still have the opportunity to be some leverage of development. They destroyed the Orlyava that was a state-owned company, the Eagle produced excellent shirts and it could have been as it was for years, an excellent exporter, but we settled down on the lohn jobs of so-called. non-performing, non-branding, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-reduced, non-produced, non-produced higher value because it was the government's decision. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108577	Dear Representative Glavasevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peović, on the trail of corporation, I'm actually terribly glad you brought this up because we've had a lot of debates about this affirmative as you say the documents. Recently, at a joint session of the entire board of this assembly, in which about the consequences of Russia's sanctions on our economy, a very closely seen gentleman close to the HDZ summit was deadly cold, saying that the focus on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship had thrown the EU economy on his knees and also advocated that corporations would be large enough to get the measures of this support the government is offering. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108579	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108580	Well, I'm not sure I understood correctly, but maybe it was a little time to explain what it was about, what I'm concerned about, the specific sanctions and those on that list so it would be a very good proposal that came from your club to actually follow the sanctions and who it is, in general, I mean, what the subjects are talking about. But on the other hand, we have ministers like Paladin who are working with these Russian tycoons by destroying our industry, that's the man responsible for destroying our industry. He acquired all his assets through the real estate of IGH, Elektroprivreda Niskogradnja he destroyed so that he brought in a Russian tycoon who promised workers to continue production if they gave up their claims. After the workers gave up their claims no more, almost, game over, took the machines and distributed the jobs to the workers. Such people in ours, our government with Russian capital has no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108581	The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108582	I'm calling in an article. 238th Honorable Vice President. A colleague calls the government and all of us for the Ulanik, and over 4 billion kunas are pretty banged up to save jobs. The new oil company now employs over 300, and up to 500 people are expected to negotiate new jobs, and this Ulnik is a healthy Ulnik unlike the one you were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108583	It's all nice and good, but it wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure, so I'll give you a heads-up. My colleague Pevovic, you are also looking for a breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108584	It's amazing to me, colleague Peric, that you are comparing the new Oily with the old Oily. A new Oilman who doesn't hire or a part of those workers who were hired by the old Oilman. And it's the money and the bag with no bottom, so that's your responsibility. So you're responsible for putting state money in the private pockets of the local tycoon for years, and then you're talking about the new Oilman who started the workers who fought the most for the Oilman in the Oil Station who don't have the number of workers who were before and went to Italy to work until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108585	Thank you very much. It was also a replica, so you get a reminder. Please get a warning, don't have two warnings, don't get a third one. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108586	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. If Croatia were to be a model country of Western liberal democracy on this point, we should neither make a statement nor we should launch a debate on Parliament's disbandment because such a debate would be completely unnecessary and only the disbanding of parliament would be formal, but deeply moral, both of the ruling and of the opposition. Unfortunately, Croatia is a country without political responsibility. Croatia is a state that supports the theft of public money, the state in which people have been sitting on serious charges recently, and one minister is even deprived of freedom, the first such case in modern Croatian history. In countries that hold to themselves, no government would survive such tectonic disorders and a colossal and system of abuse of public duties. But this country, with such an essentially corrupt government headed by the main protector of the corrupt-HDZ mentality of Andrej Plenkovic, has no intention of holding onto it. Corruption at the top of the government is not the only reason why we are today asking for the parliament to disband and for the decision on the mandate of representative democracy to return to the citizens. The reason is, colleagues and colleagues, and with this corruption and too much. The current ruling majority managed to create two parallel realities in Croatia. In one reality live they deprived of all political, social and human scruples, and in another, the realities live all those whom this government makes life harder and more unpleasant. With daily propaganda and spins, the government must find a way to convince citizens how they live better, that Croatia is one phenomenal place for life, just as the former minister of work has assured us recently. These spins are manifested in manipulations, in twisting the thesis, in half-truths that lack a complete picture and an unheard, unheard of need for Andrej Plenkovic to appear as the savior of both the state and the nation. But colleagues and colleagues are just like autocratic regimes. So what kind of Croatia is every day trying to show us HDZ? We are bombarded with reforms that are about to begin and how large the government's reform capacity is. No fundamental reform has been made in 6 years to catch Croatia up with advanced EU countries. The prime minister boasts that he is Croatia's longest-ever prime minister, but that is exactly why Croatia is not progressing. Reforms don't happen, and if they do, it's eye massage to the people, just like in the case of so-called. the reforms of the HGK or, for example, the introduction of those Croatian transparency. What about health care in the Republic of Croatia? HDZ and Willy Beros would say they're just blooming roses. They bloom to individuals who pay for millions of diaries, flowers that are transformed overnight into IT companies, companies that are twice as paid for by medical devices. And all that under Willy Berosh's stick, of course, our hero. The reality is, however, that there is nothing since the announced health reform. A year ago, Beros, you remember, sued Plenkovic about the reform in the drawer for local elections. He didn't even sound when Maric took 6 billion in his last year's budget for health care, and, behold, after our countless suggestions on how to cut debts, the debts to the large-scale drug system again threaten the hospital system. We remember last year that the prime minister was lying here about oncology patients not missing their medications, so the next day, these same cancer patients in the media denied it. The prime minister boasts that he has secured billions of European money and thus directly gives hope to people who are still living in containers, but that hope is drowsy every time they see their eyes as they do not move from the container and that the restoration is in a shameful waiting status and that is more than 2 years from the earthquake in Zagreb and a year and a half from the earthquake in Banja. And speaking of that renewal, the former minister ended up in prison, but the prime minister boasted that he had found an ideal expert in character today in the work of Minister Paladina. The source of personnel has always been the stronger side of Andrej Plenkovic, especially if we look at the score of torpedoed ministers from his government who, of course, were the choice of Andrej Plenkovic. In order to say propagandaists from the HDZ Facebook page who copy their friend's electoral slogans from the European People's Party of Aleksandr Vukic, people, look at the scoreboard. More than 17 ministers had to leave for the appointment of Plenkovic's anti-corruption radar. Instead of dealing with the reconstruction, Paladin explains its many tens of millions worth of non-risk assets, investments and work, according to the modern-day owner, but with partner contracts such as the HDZ since the 1990s. Being a mate, Paladini was obviously the strongest reference. The government boasts that it has raised salaries and saved jobs and has taken measures against inflation. The government can raise salaries to the public sector, that's true, but at the same time it hasn't made d of digitisation and optimization of jobs. In fact, the government does not raise salaries in the real sector, the market only works, but not because of government policy, but because of its own success in production and export. You saved jobs not from the government, but from taxpayers' money, which would be even more so if you weren't systematically destroying this country by stealing. The pay's up. So who are you cheating on? In the year.../incomprehensible... inflation that you laughed at in this House on September 15, 2021, not only did it eat wage growth and deepen poverty for the poor, but we don't even know how much longer it will grow. What about crime in public enterprises? In the Croatian forests and pay lawyers to the president of the Croatian Forests Administration, we already know everything about taxpayers' money. But on several occasions, I have spoken publicly about favouring HEP PPD, which I have both evidence and documentation and contracts. I also asked a parliamentary question because I discovered a huge affair, but Coric of course did not answer me for two months. Now the media has finally taken an interest in it. It is that HEP has set up a tender for the purchase of Russian gas in order to get a more expensive price for the PPD and has paid HEP for it in advance, so you publish the tender, get a lower price, then cancel the competition, to republish it, get a higher price, but this time PPD offers it. And not only that, a few days behind that, you pay PPD all off, and watch out for Russian gas. This story will still be discussed, and I personally call on the DORH to examine all the actions on another HDZ affair by Frane Barbaric, of course I am personally at the disposal of the DORH with complete documentation. You're promoting cooperation and solidarity with Ukraine, and you're paying off Russian gas, and I could go on like this. My colleagues and colleagues, this country is not being managed, this country is stychically destroying HDZ's rule, stealing and stealing, setting up and bribing public money. HDZ is destroying this country so that it can only be grabbed for itself and you HDZ gentlemen can do whatever you want, as your beloved leader says, but you can't as long as you want because the bubble of lies, manipulation and propaganda that you've blown up and sold to the citizens at the time will crack, or the DORH of new arrests or choices at which you'll touch the bottom and remember who's flying high down, your fall will be very painful, but for the citizens it will mean freedom from lies and corruption. It is simple that Croatian voters must free the country from HDZ's kleptomaniac nature, you have issued all principles, but all the principles on which one society rests, you have made it your own. Thanks to you, Croatia should start from the beginning because you have devastated the entire society, but you will not anymore, it is really enough, so it is important that this commercial majority of which are hiding and its coalition partners leave immediately to heal this society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108587	Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108588	Here they keep asking us, and what would you do, and in order for you to have nothing, you just complain and criticize. So now I'm going to talk a little bit about how we're going to, what we need to change and how to fix the most important body in the country, and that's exactly HS. As I have announced in the previous presentation, the biggest problem of our democracy is that HS and its work has been sabotaged to that extent that it has lost every confidence of the people of the Republic of Croatia so that we regularly get the worst score in the exams, but I don't think that this is the situation and I don't think that's necessarily what HS should look like. In fact, if someone else were to run this country in a different way he would arrange and the work of this assembly could finally be what his name is saying, and that is where Croatian citizens are represented in a constructive, articulated, democratic debate. And what's the problem here? Let's start with the chairman, the president of the assembly and the vice presidents of the ruling majority think that the incarnation of the Pharaohs with their respective powers and give themselves the right to document the parliamentary MPs and comment on their discussions instead of being what their duty is, and that's the first among the equals, and their job is a very simple, impartial Moderator here, and what we have here when you say something is given you a reminder or three in a row to get you out of that same debate whether you're right about what you said, what happened to me here a few hours ago, and I'm not the only one. Therefore, a person who is able to behave with dignity, to moderate the debate, rather than abuse his/her function in order to politically edit the content of what the parliamentary representatives are talking about. Secondly, I started this in the previous presentation, agreeing on a meeting schedule, so this simultaneous who sabotaged some important topics on other committees is one problem, but what is generally done with the way the schedules are drawn together, the fact that in the pre-election period the debate is knowingly diverged by less attractive topics, which is the abuse of the country's most important institutions for the purpose of its own election outcome. Then we are well aware that the opposition proposals are regularly included in the late nights in order for them to be discussed beyond the eyes of the general public and one specific problem that the schedule is illogical and unnatural, the laws are discussed before the reports necessary to understand the legal changes, the amendments to the Island Act a week before the report on the effects of the same law. Does our schedule really have to look like this, do we have to wait until the evening to find out what will be on the agenda and when the new minister will come to the parliamentary committee so that we hope that there will be as few parliamentary representatives present at the debate as possible or that there may be a ruling majority who will arrange the parliamentary schedule in a way that is sent in time to release key topics for Croatian society in a crucial time and to enable, and not sabotage, a parliamentary debate? If you're really so strong from the ruling majority that you're sending opposition proposals in small nights, let them go, so fight, you must have knowledge and arguments, what's the problem? It is not a problem that you recognize your own weakness that we know well, but that one image is created that HS does nothing and that is completely incorrect. What kind of laws are you sending? Legislative proposals are not normative or substantively arranged, so some of them do not provide basic information as to why legal amendments are needed, and some of them cannot be provided with a report to indicate whether legal changes are justified at all. And finally the committees, it's a broader question of forming a meeting that has more than parliamentary committees and bodies than the government of the ministries. And it suits everyone in the assembly because it's almost 100 presidential and vice-presidential chairs, secretaries, increased coefficients and so on. Each representative is a member of at least 3-4 working bodies, some or more. In this regard, there is no systematic or effective assembly work if the representatives run from the session of one committee to the session of the other committee just to get a quorum at all. There are no quality discussions on committees, the work is superficial and everything is fragmented. We know the consequences, but nobody takes it seriously. The second ruling majority would have arranged it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108589	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108590	We ask for the disbanding of this assembly not only to refresh the legitimacy of the highest representative body after all the affairs and all the dirt that has been happening in the last two years with the aim not only of some other people and other ratios, but also of doing otherwise. Parlo Parliament late Latin means talking, talking. It is our job in Parliament to speak, and the way the sessions are held in these two years and in which various business tricks are used we see that speech is well-limited here. It's the first thing that needs to be changed in the new assembly. To make this really a place, a place of speech. So, if in the new assembly we just get different people and other ratios between parties we've only done half the work, this assembly has to restore its dignity, and that will, among other things, achieve as a place of free speech and articulated speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108591	Dear representative Selak Rasdic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108592	I've been talking about this topic for a year and exactly a year ago I had my first parliamentary debate on how to improve the work of the assembly. Of course, however, there is no hearing for it. The aim is to raise awareness of the voting machine where only government decisions are confirmed. The consequences of this are disabling parliamentary debate, preventing the work of parliaments and losing citizens' confidence in institutions. Of course, the other ruling majority, who truly see democracy as a valuable asset of our time, and who is trying to realize in practice, would be able to edit this assembly in a completely different way. Imagine a meeting where you have high-quality bill proposals, in which you discuss at a normal time and which is modernized by someone who is not obsessed with sabotaging the same debate, and parallelly you have active committees who participate with their proposals in this same debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108593	The Republic also has a respected representative, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108594	... Here is Minister of Health Beroša, who violates the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore, according to the decision of the Croatian Court of Justice, forgive the Constitutional Court, violates the laws. [[Specially enabled.]] It's been 30 days since I asked him a representative question, why he spent 30 million kunas of our money, taxpayers buying Ronapreve, so the Americans gave up using this medicine because their CDC said it was ineffective and had too little effectiveness in treating him against Covid. After that, some time passed, our minister spilled 30 million kunas of our money. It's been 30 days, he didn't answer me. He's breaking the Rules of Procedure with it. According to the decision, the Constitutional Court is in violation of the laws. What kind of minister is that, and where is he hiding in which basement is he?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108595	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108596	Dear fellow Minister Miletic, I have already had a controversy with Minister Berose about answering parliamentary questions because he has been late for several months with answers. After which he, as I say, made a personal effort as if it were doing me a favor to start getting answers on time. And when I referred him to these answers in the next assembly debate because there were not enough concrete facts about the questions I asked, he insulted me that he tried to get an answer, and I should have sat down and said thank you. So the question that the minister gives you an answer on time is a matter of his goodwill and service to you, not of following the law which should be the case. The last question I asked, for example, was the minister of the economy, and it was about the storage of medical waste of people suffering from diabetes. And they said everything is by law while people who suffer from diabetes said exactly the opposite that they had nowhere to store their waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108597	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108598	Thank you. So maybe it's better this way. Yesterday I was preparing for this debate, my next minister is Minister Berosh, and there are really a number of reasons why he should go and I was ready to comment on them here. But what Minister Beros has done today is an unprecedented move. And if he had been the brightest minister so far, if he had carried out the reform, if he had revived the health care center, if he had split the citizens, if we had had had had a low mortality in the pandemic, then after today, Minister Beros would have had to leave anyway. In fact, Minister Beros today revealed to Croatian citizens in his statement to the media before the government that it was Minister Beros through a commission that he established changes the law. And that's what every medic knows, so so does Berosh, and I can and can only change through this assembly. But let's start from the beginning. So in his statement today, Minister Beros made it clear and unequivocally clear that the Commission in the case of Mirela Cavida, but also in all other cases requests for termination of pregnancy after 10 weeks, had to determine whether the status of the fruit was incompatible with life. Besides repeating it several times, providing medical records on the condition of Mirala Chawide, which I'm not sure is his Mrs. Chawida agreed, even threatening to ask himself, what if the patient had gone to Slovenia, if the condition of her fruit was compatible with life? What would happen, Minister Berosch, to whom exactly do you threaten? Do you threaten Mirela Chavaidi, threaten doctors who have sent her from Croatia to Slovenia or threaten Slovenian colleagues who, by the same law, approve of the termination of pregnancy, by the same law? The doctor also told all other citizens, Minister Beros, that abortion in Croatia can only be obtained if the life of the mother is at risk or if the state of the fruit is incompatible with life. However, Minister Beros disregards the fact that this Law, which he and his doctors sitting in the Committee, and all other gynecologists should observe, is, with these two conditions, abortion after the 10th week of pregnancy, quite acceptable in states where a child will be born with severe physical and mental defects and damages, which, in the opinion of all gynecologists who have seen Mirel Cavida, is exactly her case, but also, and the condition in which the pregnancy of a potentially healthy foetus occurred by committing a crime of rape, a promise of an powerless person, a promise of abuse of position, a promise of promise to a child or birth. So Minister Beros today has repeatedly claimed that women in Croatia do not have the right to what the law guarantees but to have the right to what the Beroshe Committee allows them to do. Well, you can't do that, Minister Beroshu! We can't have a commission that you or anyone else from your specific worldview establishing law-making. You and your committee can't add the conditions for termination of pregnancy. Your commission is not and will never be a Parliament. Only if you're planning to start some new headquarters, national, abortion headquarters, for the wrinkles, for the freedom of women who will then tell us how, when and who can interrupt pregnancy, and who, when and how they have to give birth. So no way. We see what you're planning, we see what your strategy is, and from this place we're telling you, it won't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108599	The Republic has a respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108600	Dear colleagues, you're a doctor. My question to you is related to some of the things Minister Beros, who also, the doctor, spoke today. Minister Beroš presented details to the public today on the health condition and data of a patient. The information he's come up with in his official duties, not just the doctor, but the minister. We'll take responsibility as Minister on another occasion. But now I'm asking you as a doctor. Was the minister allowed to talk about the state of health, about the state of the fruit and everything related to these diseases of his patient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108601	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108602	Thank you for that question. I think it's extremely important to open it. So, it can certainly be checked, but from what we have learned, we are therefore talking about that he commented on something that no doctor should allow himself to comment publicly, and also, in any case, should not allow the minister to comment publicly, and I am quite certain that Minister Beros was quite aware of that, as I am quite certain that he used this case to clearly tell us what the position of this government is about the new law on termination of pregnancy and how he will treat those institutions and patients, but above all, institutions, which will try to enforce the current Law on termination of pregnancy. There was a clear threat addressed to institutions that would try and insist on law enforcement currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, rather than The law of Minister Berosha is in force. [[Employed: Honored Representative Jaksic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108603	Dear colleague Kekin, I'm also asking you as a doctor. Since this whole story, the case is very ugly and very sad and since it is said by doctors in certain Zagreb hospitals, but also by the minister himself, you have now answered. My question to you, you are a doctor and to perform exactly as we look at these days, whether you are subject to responsibilities, what responsibilities and what possible consequential consequences you may have for such reckless, irresponsible, and unfortunately in some statements bordering and inhumane behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108604	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108605	Thank you for asking. So, the question should be asked to begin by the Croatian Medical Chamber, they will certainly know exactly what the steps are, but the violation of medical secrets and the presentation of medical data is quite safe for strict procedures, so ultimately, for questioning about the license, etc., so imagine that I come as a psychiatrist, and I don't have any details about who I'm talking about, about medicines, etc. It's the exact same thing, ma'am. I guess. When it comes to the medical secret state of my pancreas and the state of my soul and my cousin's condition, if you will, it's the exact same thing, and also, the state of my uterus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108606	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108607	My colleague Kekin, apart from the really scary things that the minister actually said today, which is that, in his opinion, he literally changes his views through his commissions, changes the law, changes the law and introduces new criteria for medically indicated abortion, that is, the interruption of pregnancy, he also discovered the very essence and nature of the HDZ government when he said so what the patient did not directly report to me, I would speed it up because it is your modus operandi. If you have a number direct from the minister and you call, then you'll fix it, even if you're a party member you'll go even faster and there might not even be an objection to conscience, a conscience then it comes out, jump out the window, but if you don't, if you don't go the regular way then you'll either end up in Slovenia or end up in this way that the brave woman ended up unfortunately today under... And with the shoes of Minister Berosha. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108608	Dear representative Kekin. Thank you very much, don't break the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108609	Thank you, Comrade Bencic, thank you, Chairman. So, it's absolutely true, I would really use this minute to thank Mirela Cavidi from this place for her courage which is not too small to come out to something that is so painfully present precisely because she would not benefit from it because she has no use of it, she is only experiencing gnashing in the media and by the minister himself as we see it but to warn, as well as some other brave women before her, to warn about what is happening to Croatian women in Croatian hospitals which, I will repeat, I said this morning, so we know how she is humanised by Croatian hospitals, Minister Beros has said what the code, it's that famous code, the party chooses the way, the party sets up directors, the party sets up chiefs's clinics, so then we have clinics that hate women. ... You won't drown us with you ever, ever. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108610	Please, please, let's not, let's not, come on, come on, let's not from the bench, let's not from the bench, there's a way and there's a business way to discuss it. Now, on behalf of you, colleague Kekin, don't you... I just said please don't talk from the bench, then you go and do the same thing, it doesn't really make sense. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Damir Habian, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108611	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it's actually great today to discuss these two opposition proposals from the morning because I think that the Croatian public now sees who is and what is opposition and what way and what would it be to not let God come to the election and get a chance to manage this country. For you there is no principle of presummation of innocence, we have seen it before, but it is particularly stressed and today you have declared a whole series of people guilty here, and that you are not God I repeat in my power, it is likely that these people would end up somewhere where they shouldn't end up without any trial because you and the investigation and the police and the state's attorney and ultimately supreme court and supreme moral authority. And I'm just going to, just for a little while, have to do what was last, so I don't think it's nice to use emotions and use certain situations that are difficult for all to get political points. That's what I have to say, it's not right and it's not really, it wasn't really in place, that's what I have to say because you took the side and indirectly pointed at some others here to think differently which is not true. Secondly, these two suggestions, I'm going to say again that they're artisans, you're going to be angry again, but they are. I'll do it. So I'm going to go from being a lawyer to a lawyer to a lawyer, and I'm going to let myself, so when something comes in front of someone, in front of a court, there's got to be some content in front of the administrative body. [[Clock incursion: clocks]] This kind of thing that talks about disbanding HS I would expect it to have certain facts, that it has certain arguments that are supported by evidence, that is, this four lines, in fact the disbanding HS and therefore you expect someone here to raise their hand to disband HS, I'll call again that the article, you didn't say any arguments. My colleague, my colleague Rasdic here said earlier that she would now, not be destructive that she would be constructive to say something about reform. I've really heard the ears, I've really expected to hear now that we're finally going to hear something crucial, which she said should change something in the HS Rules of Procedure, so it's a key and only reform that will change the direction this country is going to change. And you were talking about the grade HS has, so you were wondering if maybe that's the kind of grade we all have here, so unfortunately because of some who behave the way they behave, so go back and forth and think about whether maybe you've contributed to this by your actions. As far as your proposal is concerned, 8 days ago, new ministers were confirmed here in HS, most of them stable, none of the acts voted and confirmed in this HS received less than 76 hands regardless of whether they needed it or not to comply with the Rules of Procedure. When we talk about the need for early elections, I think that no one in this situation in the pandemic, two earthquakes, now Russia's aggression in Ukraine, would be reasonable enough to call the elections. Someone mentioned there were elections in France, they were in Hungary, that colleagues and colleagues, but these were regular elections, elections that had to be held. We had the 2020 election, it was a pandemic, we spent it, and HDZ beat it, and it was very convincing, you lost it, and that's what's bothering you, and why you're constantly going with certain interpretations, ministers' shifts, now you have two motions to dissolve HS. What is best for you with this proposal is that you go with the fig in your pocket because you beg God not to make the choice, you pray to God that there is no choice. She said a colleague Bencic the question is if I'm going to be in the next assembly, you're probably going to go from yourself, so you're wondering if this goes away if I'm going to sit here, you'll only see it in 2024. when there will be regular elections. As for the government's work, as far as the government's work is concerned, you have the Schengen, the recent entry into the euro zone we discussed yesterday, but it wasn't much of an interest, we have Rafael, we have the Peljeski bridge, here the other day he started paying taxes to young people. We have a 10.2% GDP growth in 2021, we have salary growth, media pay, average salary, pension growth. We have a whole package of measures of nearly 5 billion kuna to reduce the inflation impact mentioned earlier by a fellow from the bench to the citizens. From support to farmers, one-time pensioners' benefits, from subsidisation of accounts for companies, subsidisation of accounts for citizens, etc. Almost 5 billion kuna. However, it does not matter to you, obviously it is not your responsibility to discuss it here today, because it does not benefit you but is easier to call people who are not legally found or advertised guilty. That's easier for you and that's all you know. And that's the only thing you're going through today. You didn't talk about the tourist season. Last year almost at the level of 2019. You haven't talked, for example, to a signed collective contract that increases public service wages, an increase of 4%. You didn't find that interesting, either. You haven't even talked about how much Croatia has drawn more from EU funds than it has paid, 55 billion kuna. You haven't even talked about that package that was secured in Brussels of €24.2 billion, about the NPO programme. You haven't talked about any of this. This debate lasts from 9:30. And thank God you're reporting to two promoters after each individual debate. You didn't say anything about it. I'd like to hear something about it. And the question is, what is your contribution to this debate? What did you want to accomplish with this? Did you do that? I think so. That's what I said in the introduction. I am pleased that you have actually come out with this proposal for the Croatian public to see what and what the opposition is, and we will not vote against this proposal because that is because we are afraid of extraordinary elections because the polls show that we are stronger than the next 3 parliamentary parties or that we have more than the next 3 parliamentary parties. It is clear to whom citizens have shared their trust two years ago and who they still trust we will already vote against these suggestions because we see what God does not give them alternative because you have revealed yourself and I repeat do not let God give you the opportunity to manage the Croatian State. We can only be worried once. The only thing you've ever done here is dance together, recite in front of this pay phone, ask if you'll have that second chance since you've already set out with two proposals, maybe next time it'll be a third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108612	No, you don't need to stay and please don't shout out of the bench, come on. We have, we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure we'll see. She's the first respected representative of Bencic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108613	Infringement of Article 238, a colleague insulted all of us who are fighting here and talking about how in Croatia women do not have the right to basic health care in the most difficult situations in life, and you say that the court, the case is exploited where your minister speaks, only I should have called. The rights that women have with the Constitution and the laws guaranteed can be achieved in Slovenia, that is your government and that is what citizens see today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108614	Okay, that was a replica, so you get a warning, thank you very much. My colleague, Selak Rasudiæ, has broken the Rules of Procedure, I warn you that you already have two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108615	What I wrongly, yes, but I was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108616	You have two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108617	Every... So Article 238, what is the problem with fellow Habian? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Go to the election, show the muscles, and at least the entire Croatian public knows you're not ashamed of yours. And when we talk about projections, the fact is that according to the last election, I have at least eight times the chance of a preferential vote to meet me here again than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108618	It was a typical replica, so you get a warning. In accordance with Article 240(2), I must give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear Representative Rasdic has also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108619	Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning of MPs because one of the lies has been made. counterpart Habian said now that the Croatian public can see what the opposition is like. He can't see because 4 public rtv service programs don't pass on the assembly session after 1 hour but currently on the program has a Jan Willich Folk green generation alone, only 20 years old at 14 he started helping his father get a shaket. In Finland, beneath many forests there are grassy habitats used for heating, but also for various agricultural purposes. He's just a young Finn who knows what he wants to accomplish in life. ... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108620	Thank you very much for advertising the television, my colleague Rasudiæ sit down, you get a second reminder based on Article 240. I'm asking you nicely don't do that, don't do that. And then you'll talk about Parliament's dignity. Then you'll talk about Parliament's dignity, please. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108621	Thank you. There's a colleague, Habiban, who gave what we say at the theater is a good clagworth for what I wanted to talk about. In his presentation, he touched all those decisions, a feature of the ruling majority's pardon. I regret that my colleague Bacic gave up on further discussion, and I wanted to tell him that, but my colleague Habib is leaving, too, so maybe I'll tell you, we'll tell the Croatian public anyway. The ruling majority, how many times have we heard that? The ruling majority, it is a term that should represent responsibility and care for the citizens and citizens of this country in all sectors. The ruling majority is the power that votes the laws, regulations, reports, which directly affect the everyday life of all our citizens. The ruling majority is the group of individuals who should guarantee their personal and group integrity both the improvement of society, reason, knowledge, expertise, well-meaning, honesty, solidarity and sensitivity for all vulnerable groups of this society. It is a group of people who should integrate well-founded opposition proposals because it is for the benefit of all our citizens. But what do we have? We unfortunately have a voting machine, we have a group that has no responsibility, which often lacks even common sense, which because of its obedient automatic handlifting shows that there is no shame because how else do we explain the vote of laws that have neither support nor profession, nor academic community, nor users? How do you explain ignoring hundreds of objections to the bill's proposals in public debates? How do you explain ignoring legal deadlines and thus supporting illegal action? How do you explain the persistent defense of the indefensible, the defence of proven and recorded corruption and the nepotism of former and current members of this government? How else do you explain the act of constituency institutes like this? Amendment defense? Here at the last most of the time, 90% were not present at any single member of the ruling majority, not one. And the whole meaning of the Defence Amendment Institute is reduced to the mere satisfaction of the form, and that is the best definition of the current ruling majority, the satisfaction of the mere form regardless of the content, without hearing for the needs of the citizens, without responsibility that laws should be passed in this House which will primarily and only be motivated by the improvement of all citizens and citizens. That's what Krleža calls exactly, their compact majority, the compact majority of obedients. Such a ruling compact majority has turned this assembly into some non-serious body into a free debate club in which no debate, no argument can ever overcome the obedient lifting of the hands of the voting machine. And that is why it is necessary to restore the term of office to the citizens and that is why it is necessary to go to the elections and allow for the election of a more dignified, convincing and fairer HS calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108622	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108623	Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. I admit that I can be anything, but I've never been petty, but now I'd like to correct you in something not because of the pettyness, but I think it's essential. I will no longer talk about the ruling majority, because they are not the majority and do not have the majority and they did not get the majority in the elections but about the ruling clicks. In fact, these 76 and 77 with the Temple received 200,000 votes less than all of us from the opposition that we are here as a minority. However, thanks to the radical electoral law, thanks to their deafness to what the constitutional court said long ago that it was a discriminatory disproportionate between the size of the electoral units, and the census showed that some of these election units would have to choose as many as 16, and some 12 MPs, thanks to their breaking up with minority representatives who were elected by special lists, some with a handful of votes in order to articulate the interests of their minority, not in order to... the minority to the "rule majority".../The speakers speak at the same time./... and therefore we need new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108624	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108625	And yet another reason why we need these choices as we need a new electoral law, is that I am also speaking in this assembly, but completely unsuccessful as many other things. It's certainly that it's very amazingly questionable, very significant what the intellectuals would say, that there's none of the so-called here today. The coalition majority, your coalition partners are gone, and that's certainly not an accident. Well, I'm hoping maybe, maybe the coalition partners will think something over, if nothing else, Minister Beroš may use today's scandalous statements and violations of the law to make them finally stop supporting such a voting machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108626	On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Nino Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108627	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Returning briefly to the wrong thesis of counterparts, Habian, that the Croatian public can now see what the opposition is, this is really worth stressing. It is scandalous that public broadcasters who are not commercial television and who do not need to be focused do not know Turkish soap operas or what fun commercial content but what is the public's interest, and I do not see more public interest than what the country's most representative body does through which they also express their sovereignty by trusting us with a mandate at 4g. but at one afternoon on the 4th floor of the HRT program and instead of playing this program that they exist and that doesn't cost them anything right now we can watch about this little Finnish environmentalist, Sammy, who collects with Dad... It is a disaster and I can only express hope that the new assembly, the assembly, will get the opportunity and opportunity through public service as long as the meeting is held at noon, either at midnight, or at 3:00 a.m., that every word spoken in HS can be reached by Croatian citizens who elect this assembly and whose laws are passed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we heard something about the presummation of innocence, so why the government does not respect the presummation of innocence, why the government did not respect the presummation of innocence with the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, but as a result, it is not good for the government, and it is good for the parliament. It's good to respect the presummation of innocence, but it's good to know some statistics. When we talk about the case of Gabriela Žalac and Mr. Petrica, I will remind you that the European public prosecutor does not raise charges lightly, that, in 95% of the cases, they end up with a powerful verdict, so respecting the presumption of innocence when we are in force, some political conjecture should be taken into account. The law is easier to change than custom or standard. What do I mean by that? You can't do so much damage to the worst law you can bring to the extent that you're doing damage to customs by breaking the standards of Croatian politics because the law can be fixed, a new council can pass a better law, but to create a political good practice and a level that will not be broken and under which it will not go are years, perhaps 10 years of cultivation. It's like that story about the English lawn, how the English is a good lawn, what you do to that lawn, so it says it's watering, I cut if it's sometimes... Well, I'm working, too, but 200 years old. That's it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what you're doing isn't such a bad law problem because the law has changed easily, but you have broken democratic standards and customs in Croatia, you have brought them down at the moment after the arrest of Minister Horvat because you have not disbanded the parliament and have called a new election immediately. After the case, 4-5 more things happened each in a decent democratic Western political community were enough for the government to fall and to call new elections. So you do great and lasting damage, I will repeat once again, by breaking democratic customs and democratic standards, call it levels as you will, cheeks, fat cheeks, stomach strength, not to go further into body metaphors in the Republic of Croatia. Because where the bottom line is, you keep moving that level, which still has to happen, which still the minister must or the vice president of the government ends up in prison or whatever new one you have to bring in, in what conflicts of interest and from what blurs to say we can't go on, we call the election, and at the same time you assure us that you're so strong and so strong, you have so much public support, so call those elections so we don't bother anymore, give us that lesson in the elections, get rid of us. The second thing, the law is minimum morale and that's what we tried to point out, that it's legal for Milosevic to return to parliament, it's legal to appoint Coric to the CNB, but the question is whether it's moral, if it's not good for the government, how can he be good for these institutions and what do you say to these institutions and citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108628	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108629	Thank you, Vice President HS, for your homework. On April 8th, colleagues of Rasdic were therefore given a request to the Constitutional Court of HS to manifest itself and to call the end, to the HS to call a referendum. A quite sufficient number of verified signatures have been collected, Croatian citizens want a referendum on stoyrocracy and on covid certificates and we know that it will not end up playing games, the autumn will be interesting again. And now the constitutional court is breaking 30 days, saying they need more time, what kind of democratic society do we live in that we do not respect the rule of law and in which they are not respected, do we not respect the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108630	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108631	I will remind myself once again that in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and regulate the referendum, and with us to prevent and prevent and possibly disrupt later. First we have this absurdly high 10% threshold, it is a de facto referendum before the referendum, some average is 2% European, and it and the constitutional court that is elected in the way we know the political trade that serves as a further fuse that will carry out any constitutional acrobatic to prevent something that is not at the will of the ruling, but I really don't know what I can invent here, how it can be an unconstitutional issue that changes the constitution and in a way that doesn't collude with any other article of the constitution and no other constitutional value but in Article. 17. adds the word “pandemia” and thus commits themselves by ruling that, in cases of such decisions on the restriction of human rights, they must make two-thirds rather than a semi-partum, i.e. ... Art. Six. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I, I can't imagine what kind of acrobatic I can do, but here's what we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108632	The Republic has a respected representative, Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108633	I have Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy, you mentioned that in your speech that I welcome that you hope that the future majority of some kind will be in the apartment to change what is happening on the HRT that we are all witnessing, and that these sessions on that 4th channel are being transmitted to both the custom and the law and the public interest. But what I'm saying is not to ask any question in this replica is that and at the moment it's possible, it's just a matter of political decision. It's known who's setting up the director, how the HRT's pyramid agrees, and what should be the public's interest. However, there is no good will, but there is no desire to educate the citizens, to reach them, and to have our words come to them, and also to the final line and message of opposition. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108634	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108635	I totally agree with what you said. I personally asked all of them at the Assembly Information Committee when interviews with candidates for director of HRT were, and I was surprised why the 4th HRT programme did not transmit HS as long as it sat. It's his duty as a public tv service and according to the HRT Act and nothing costs them but they let go here's the thing about the Sami that collects shakes with Dad, the little one... helped what's happening right now on HRT 4. and they all said if they become headmaster including Mr. Schwebb that he's going to change it, but here we're still looking at little Sami, bunny and stream. Why do you do that? So just to reduce the opportunity for citizens to see and hear arguments in the assembly, and then similar media will filter and send a picture to the public, so they will not present a hundred arguments, but they will say here they argued by ruling and opposition, here as they are all the same, and then the sum of the score 2.0, it's a practice, but we'll change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108636	The Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro will now speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for the Righteous Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108637	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and if anyone is watching us. I'm not going to speak today on behalf of the Fair Croatian Club for the sake of you here, because I know you don't usually listen to me. I'm gonna talk about those 150,000 people following me on my Facebook, so I'm gonna cut this off and I'm gonna put this on 'cause, yeah, my colleague Rasdic is right, we're not on TV, and in the end of the line, this is boring, brother. It turns out that 151 is a perfect person without sin, all of Superman himself and it's always someone else's fault, and I'm talking in a assembly where most 76 people should sit on one side, let's say, democratic options, and on the left, all of this is based on some party line. So in one case or another, there is a sin, but there is also a need for sin to be confessed and to gain some penance, and on the left, and for stealing apples sometimes it was known to lose its head at other times. So morale, no one has any sin. Here I've decided to say that I have, I'm asking for a disbandment, I've made a mistake. I'm in my political career, not so long, wrong, and thanks to me, there are some people sitting in the assembly who shouldn't be sitting in the assembly. And I think the only way to go Thank you. [[Applause]] The only way is to actually admit to ourselves sometimes that we're not perfect. And so this whole story about disbanding the assembly is actually our discussion in the light of everything that's going on just doesn't make sense when you look at people digging through buckets, we've heard everything, inflation is so much, demographic disaster is what it is, and I'm the only one who can go out in this assembly again and say I'm 2011. wrote a song about the demographic disaster of Croatia. The song is called "Why They Lie to Our Face" and people recognize it, watch. And some people are surprised and wonder who the turkey shit is that it turned out on the last census. That was seen 10 years ago and we don't miss 400,000 people, it would be good if it were 400,000 people, we're missing a lot more residents. But no one's guilty, anything on this side being referred to as criticism, I even think well-intentioned criticism is being like a snowball breaking down on a stone rock of stubbornness, pride, haughtiness. What's that for? What are we wasting our time for? You need to disband HS immediately will share the public, of course. There's a quiet majority of 55, 6.7% that doesn't go to elections at all, and they don't care about that, and those forty percent that come out enough to give them 16, 17% to someone's trust, and then D'Hond's method will do everything else. The Army of Intruders and so on. A deep state or a frozen bureaucracy will do its part. I've followed a bunch of ministers in my career, I've played, I've been singing, I've been with them, I've been hanging out, I've talked to them, but some ministerial assistants have been there for 20, 30 years, and they won't let you change, they won't let you, because this suits them. Those of the 400 billion kuna GDP that we are able to make, they control some 150, 160 billion kunas. Who's gonna let that go? Nobody. If this is a parliamentary democracy, then why doesn't the president of the biggest party of the winners sit as Parliament's president here? It's a parliamentary democracy. A parliamentary democracy in which one person in his four walls decides on everything and we will disband the assembly. We tried in our club as much as possible as it is possible as independent advocates to lead the interests of the people and the state, to be guided by common sense. And we want a follow-up. Why do we want to follow the outcome? Because someone was wrong in the 12th century, and people were killed in '91. years for that. Someone made a mistake in 1918 and people died in 1991 because of it. Someone said they'd return the INA in 2016. Where's the INA master? Who does it belong to? Is that even possible? Who made the decision in 2020 to burn 40 billion kunas and lock the country on eight infected. Yesterday, 1,200 of them were bitten by a donkey wolf, no glass, we're sitting normally. I'm not saying the disease is, it's hard, but having 390 dead at 100,000 is the result with which we are at the top of the world's failure. Who's to blame? If I've confessed to that mistake, I'll admit this one, but I haven't been able to make that decision. Although when I confronted the president of the current assembly at one meeting, I told him that the Swedish model, but he and the journalist attacked me too. Any consequences? No brother. This is a country where there is no consequence. You do whatever you want, you steal all you want, you go to jail for a little bit. It's not a problem here if they stole it, so it caught you. The problem is if it gets you, and you didn't steal, or if you stole, you'll manage. So, I'd love to, and I thought we'd talk about disbanding the council, but let's make some decisions and laws before that and then the next one won't be like this. That's what we need, to have parliamentary documentation, that we don't have plenary sessions about everything. For what? The most qualitative debates in this assembly are being held on committees. The late Dr. Tudjman Miro talked about how it should be organised differently, and he was right, that committees do more, that quality people, quality experts, that our academic community should be involved, that they solve it, and that we should find ourselves when to discuss important things at the plenary session. This much we all remind ourselves of my children when they were little and when they watched Shrek, then when they finished 56 times watching me say we want something else, they would say no more and again the same thing, the game after the play. I know exactly who's raising the line to whom. Disbanding the assembly without amending the electoral law, without changing the election units, what is it for? Well, we're a country with 500,000 voters rather than residents. That's a fact. Let's disband the assembly, let's go. Here, I'm the first one to make the mistake I'm going. You, too, sinless after me. So, disbanding the assembly without defining what we were warned by the Venice Commission, the Constitutional Court, which is a question of minority MPs, me, I've already said so I repeat, so I've been called back in the media that we finance that I'm some kind of chauvinist and nationalist. I don't care who's what, I don't care at all. I'm interested in having my kids stay in the country, I'm interested in living better, that's what I'm interested in, but who's what and because he has blood cells like that and gets a function like that, I don't care, and that's what I'm against in the root. And say something to my colleagues from the opposition that I have therefore signed. Two days after the arrest of Minister Horvat were elections in Boraja. It's a small spot in the Sibenik hinterland. HDZ is there in power all the time and in 30 years the HDZ government has disappeared school, post office, all of those facilities where we ate lamb there is only one left. Two days after the arrest of Minister Horvat were the extraordinary elections in Boraja, the turnout was what it was, 50 people came out and HDZ won 100%. So let's not get carried away. Without changing the electoral law, without serious preparations and reforms that this government and this assembly can do will be nothing. But if you break up, we'll go first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108638	The debate follows on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108639	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll talk about Minister Beros. According to HZZ official data, I have now Googled, Croatia has ordered more than 6 million doses of vaccines, more than 6 million doses of vaccines by the end of 2021, so I have no data as much as we ordered in 2022. Come on, I just want to underline that I'm clear. What I want is for Minister Berosha to happen to me. I'm serious, so what I want to do to that man at any level of human being is to happen to me, but who has the house, so the minister who has the salary, as much as the minister has the salary, 17-18 000, right, Branko as much as has the minister's salary, so 15,000 kuna has the minister's salary, 15,000 kuna manages what, billions and Minister Beroš orders a Ronapreva vaccine, or a drug for forgiveness of ronapreva, pays him 30 million kuna, 30 million kuna, and I ask him as an agent here at HS, ministers why you spent money on some medicine for which American... said it was ineffective, after which you ordered it, after which you paid, no answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Beroš does not respect the HS Regulation, and in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, he does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I won't talk at all about how he paid for certain technical things for hospitals 11 million kuna in the purchase of 5 million kuna, I won't talk about how he was pulling people around, he wasn't wearing a mask anywhere, anywhere, at private parties, at parties, here and there, and then he hypocritically asked Croatian citizens to wear a mask. He sends you a virologist from Canada, I can't tell him that I don't get a man into a problem he's been working on around the sarsa, says Marine, so every mask protects just as much as the declaration says on it, and not as much as you say Minister Beros, and it's a two-hour surgical mask, and he has to move, and against the covid, we know what the profession is, but this is the agenda anyway, isn't it? Then let's take a step further, Pfizer has announced, the people I'm talking about this dumb days, there's no ministry of truth faxographers to censor me, I've been hitting on this for days, these are the official papers of Pfizer, his shareholders' report, page 6, century 3 asks him... If we're going to get a permanent permit, they say no, but we're going to lobby the re-enlargement of the license, the story only of the Pfizer, says because there's too many side effects, that's what they said, I've put links to the original documents, the ministry of truth hasn't responded, or they've mocked me on the mainstream media, which is gentlemen, why there's no informed consent, why people don't explain exactly everything, so let the citizens choose what they want, can be vaccinated on Mondays and Fridays as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problems with that, whoever wants, but there's no right to make anyone do anything against their will. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pfezer knew that the people who got over it didn't need to be vaccinated, that's their reports, not my reports or crazy anti-vaxers, they didn't need to be vaccinated, they were hiding that data, so why didn't the minister come to us here and tell us the citizens of the Republic, so that's it, you decide what you want now. Whether it's oiled, whether it's oiled, I don't know, but I know it says in one book, "Nothing's hidden that's going to stay secret, it's going to get out sooner or later," so this is going to come out, and so I think the referendum story has to be over, and that means give us a referendum, let the citizens say what they think about stogeocracy, what we fear, give a referendum to Croatian citizens that they say what they think about stogeocracy and covid certificates. These won't give up, citizens know this, I'm telling you citizens, the team's getting ready for the fall, playing their games again, so the German health minister said that, so in the fall, we've got a virus more fatal than a delta. That's what he said not me, Bill Gates, here some laugh, the man said it in an interview, so I didn't say it, how do the prophets know the sons over the crystal ball, and Fauci now says lockdown doesn't make sense, the link of his speech I put in, says lockdown doesn't make any sense, and you jumped over our head 2.g. And asked people to close up like birds in a cage. Please, you have the greatest responsibility of ruling, watch over this people, don't screw us up, don't screw us up, your biggest responsibility is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108640	The replica of Nicola Grmoi, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108641	Thank you. Dear colleague Miletic, I received an e-mail from an anesthesiologist Željko Oskojic, says behind me is a classic story, life and studio in the Republic, then going abroad, in my case in Austria and doing specialization in Austria, in Austria I am 7 years. My problem was about a month ago, I had an uncle who was an oncology patient, he was severely ill, he was lying on oncology in KBC Osijek, and it was a shock to find out that visits to KBC Osijek were still banned because of the covid measures, he unfortunately died 9.4. and we didn't have a chance to say goodbye to him at the hospital. My uncle wasn't covid, he was vaccinated twice, and he died of complications of bladder cancer, so still unlike Austria, even though all the measures in us were abolished, so you're not allowed to test yourself with a covid test and go to the hospital and visit your patient, a member of the family, to say goodbye in a dignified way, at least that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108642	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108643	I'm totally freaked out on Pfizer because the shovels, someone who's been convicted twice because he's been swindled and lied, so 23 billion people are no joke, I think 23 billion have paid court settlements dollars, then 60 million kunas, how to trust these people. I look you in the eye and cheat you twice and be convicted of it, how and what I will come for the third time, and you believe me. As for this colleague, Grmoy, it is truly insane not to allow someone to be tested and that man visits especially his relatives or his neighbors in hospitals and it is insane that in hospitals now they have reduced Minister Beroš to four months of confirmation, so we will talk about it now in the next days, no more talk and vaccinated and over, it is no longer worth 6 months but 4 months, people are constantly pushing into some crazy, crazy situation again, but every candle up is said to be old.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108644	Next debate on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will have a bit of a different course of debate and I will do the work and perhaps the best minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia no matter how politically I disagree with him, and that is Minister Zdravko Maric. In economic theory, we have two great thinkers of the 20th century, one is Keynes, the other is Friedman and it is certain that for each of them we can find a lot of virtues, we can find a lot of faults and we can determine in various times that what they've been propagating and developing and educating their students and students at some stages proved to be something that was not good for a certain moment. So I dare say that Minister Maric, despite his qualities as a financier, with his policies that are clear to everyone that he can't bring them to the end alone because, of course, the political framework gives the prime minister, is not what the Croatian state needs today, is not what Croatia needs today, and it is simply not a set of economic policies that at the moment of the crisis we are in can contribute to making Croatian citizens live better, to get out of this crisis, but also that our economy at least preserves so little competitiveness that it still has in this great European market, without talking about some future steps and future competition. Why am I talking about this? That is why we have had the opportunity to look and watch for several months as the government has not given too much incentives for electricity and gas where we also go to collect how much more VAT has come from, since it has erupted in prices, not given too much to the citizens, let's be realistic, where the government has not found a model to start on large capital to set up large trade chains, where we have proved here several times in the assembly that we simply have less average and minimum wage than Italy or Slovenia, and the same trade chains that have more expensive consumer baskets in Croatia than they have in Slovenia or Italy. It takes a much stronger role for the government. Energy has been talked about a lot, and it also takes a much stronger role for the government and in setting up MOL towards Orban, so we know that it's not going very well, but also setting it up when we talk about the price of Croatian energy starting with oil because we can't say that the normal situation of our oil goes to Hungary, that someone there fixates it at 9.5 kuna, and we're lucky that there's still 15.00 kuna because it's a normal event of disturbances and then INA for the first quarter announces cca 650 million kuna profits. We also do not have consistent tax policies that will protect the weaker ones. We've had a few sets of tax reforms, I'm talking about income tax now, we've been saying from this pay phone that we're doing tax reform where Parliament's pay representatives are going to grow thousands of kunas, and the cooks, waiters and the rest of the constituencies for 100, 200 kunas say it's normal. It is not normal, we need a much more courageous taxation of those who are richer and those who have more, we need finally a clear and adequate policy on how to tax capital because in some of our friends in Croatia we talk about Mecca for money, we all know it very well, and we haven't yet made a step in this direction. Today there is also a tax on property or real estate tax, I will not say that we need to introduce it, but surely we also need to have a serious debate because today when inflation, and money has a lot and often have suspicious types of money, a lot of things are being shed into real estate, and we still haven't come up with a view to taxing the property. After that, an ecology, a very important topic, when we will finally be ready to discuss in Croatia how we will tax polluters. We had no chance to hear about it either Minister Maric or the ruling majority. And what you would have left for the end as the last, financing units of local self-government. When we gather courage and draw a line and say how many there are too many, but when we are ready to make a clear decentralisation of the state where we will know clearly what it is coming towards the units of local self-government and how, through clear tax revenues, not through the Balance Fund and when we will finally have the power to reduce public administration so clearly that this decentralisation really makes sense so that we can say that profit tax and value added tax can remain where they are and where they are created, and not that everything is withdrawn into one big national budget and that many times then someone shares it with a political key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108646	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108647	Excuse me. I really appreciate your exposure since you're talking about very specific things, but I would also appreciate it even more if you were true and true and you weren't going to abuse some facts that didn't stand. You just said that in Hungary it is cheaper than in our country, that fuel that is produced here is exported to Hungary and is cheaper there..., please do not bring such facts to such facts, obliterate the public of Croatia and all of us here because here we are right now. my neighbor was in Hungary, [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The fuel's more expensive than our Euro diesel. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108648	You used this for replica, you get a warning. You have no right to answer. [[I happen to live near the Hungarian border.]] This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The replica of Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108649	Thank you. Dear colleague. You've been talking about an unfair tax system, we've heard a lot today about an unsolicited Minister of Paladini. One of our data is missing today, which is that his wife is registered at their private company for 4,000 kuna salaries, which means that she has such contributions for health and pension. At the request of Minister Paladin, he made it clear that she would remain on that salary with such a minimum contribution, so I would ask you nicely if a minister in the government were to treat the problem in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108650	Thank you very much, and you've super-completed me, sometimes in five minutes you don't even remember what to say, but it definitely falls under that capital tax, taxing in a second step of luxury, because we have a situation in a very large company where you just use what we have in tax policy, and at the end of the day, you get to it if you know how to manage, and those who have such incomes, and that's how they work, of course they can manage, that you're much better at the minimum and that you get to profit at the end of the year, and you live very well. It's the same thing we did with Croatian tax policies where unfortunately we absolutely opened the space for the continuation of that policy that we thought she died of. The thesis will likely be repeated again on Sunday at 2 p.m. on Sunday, who has been bailing, pitting, but with us now it gets a new follow-up with unfair tax policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108651	Next is the debate on behalf of Attorneys' Club of the Homeland Movement of Honored Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108652	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Let's start by looking at how the parliament stands in the perception of Croatian citizens in the first place. The work of parliamentary representatives and MPs regularly receives barely a passing grade and moves between 2.0 and 2.3. On the agenda, we currently have a hundred and fifty laws, legal changes, reports and various other documents, some of which are already very, very, very long, and are likely to remain there. We pass laws driven by the HDZ formula by half the MPs plus one vote most often without any interest in what the interested experts, opposition representatives or parts of the society directly affected by certain legal changes. Here are a few examples. The Civil Disabilities Act of the Homeland War whose consequences will only be felt in an imaginary and potentially realistic situation when Milos and Jovanca are reported to them by Croatian taxpayers to Croatian coins that have frozen their painful knees while shelling Škabrnje. The law on the land of agriculture has arrived brand-new even though we are 40 years old and by it absolutely nothing has been done like it won't be done in this. The law on preschool education and education is yet another one of the inconclusive because it is the order of the ruling that every child enters the kindergarten even though there is not enough number of breeders. The only chance Croatia is likely to leave at least half a million more people, so the law will be implemented on its own. To paraphrasise Stalin has no children, no problem. There's a lot more to it than that. HDZ proposes, HDZ brings. Let us remember the Law on Media Activity, Protect competition, consumer rights, protect applicants of irregularities that have all been brought into the world without any moment being listened to by resolute experts, opposition representatives or people directly affected by these legal changes. In the assembly we also recently confirmed a new shipment of ministers who should be congratulated with all their heart for taking over a job where it remains short, it is painful and most likely ends up in striped pajamas. The new Minister of Paladin needs all the help he can get. Today I offered him, a group of citizens from Zagreb provided me with complete paperwork necessary for the start of works on their building, which was paid by several hundred thousand kunas, of only one great nothing. Ministers to work. Quite a tough minister, Beros, who from the hero of the nation, drove into an unwanted baby, is in even more trouble. We will remind you, the government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the European Commission on the acquisition of vaccines. The European Commission has agreed on the basis of the purchase of 2,000 million doses of Pfizer with the possibility of buying another 100 million additional doses. With the justification that we will achieve a better price at EU level, we have waived the right to make decisions that the vaccine, in which quantities and at what cost we buy. The only thing we know for sure is that the consequences of the Covid-19 disease pandemic in Croatia were catastrophic, so in February of this year we were the first of the deceased in the EU. The freshest news from the portfolio of debts to drug suppliers has flown over six billion kunas. Of course, the state register and Minister Maric will have to jump in, if I don't think anything will happen. Let's be happy, we were explained yesterday that the common European currency is a great thing. In fact, as soon as we introduce him, and don't doubt that law here won't pass, we'll use the saying from the eastern television pool, flowering flowers in our company. Foreign investment growth, increase in jobs, overall improvement in Croatia, are big promises. But the only benefit seems to me to be the increase in credit ratings by several points and the reduction of interest on future loans, with whom, so that when we introduce the euro without a problem, we will raise more favourable loans in euro for the purchase of foreign goods. Don't think we'll get some big money to start production in Croatia because it's not in anyone's interest either the Brussels-Zagreb coalition or the import lobby. Even as soon as we can, we'll be borrowing euro to pay our pensions, because pension funds will be in serious trouble. These debts may be paid back by generations that are yet to come. What to say about the composition of a ruling coalition that is unique in the world at the intensity of political rights and the authority of the Serb national minority. A recent arrest by former Minister Darka Horvat has confirmed what the Homeland Movement has always said. For a long time, the state has been ruled by the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition. Due to the precise description of the very nature of the current government that we have suggested to the public since the time of the conclusion of the coalition, we have often been called from Brussels to Zagreb as a party that allegedly lacks tolerance towards a national minority. The truth ended with even a judicial epilogue that reads, the Homeland Movement has no tolerance whatsoever, but according to corruption, according to nepotism and political trade. Just because we had the courage to call things the real name here in the Croatian Assembly of DP MPs is often the word taken away on many occasions, but sometimes Milorad Pupovac and Dragana Jeckov left the assembly because they did not want to or were willing to face arguments and facts. Of the two decommissioning initiatives we're discussing here today, all the better. The job of the opposition is to seek a permanent disbandment of parliaments and ways to bring their policies into the position of government to change the community and lead it in ways they consider best for Croatian society. Both options here and formally require a debate over the disbandment of the assembly have their weights. The 50 kuna invested with the public notary for the verification of the signatures were not now far from November 6, 2015, but certainly sound interesting when they are read today and here. I quote, if the Most Independent Lists are unilaterally joined by a coalition or coalition with a party that has managed Croatia over the past 10 years, thus allowing the majority in the Croatian Parliament to guarantee that I will resign as the president of Most and put my mandate at the disposal of the assembly. It's signed, of course, by Mr. Bozo Petrov. Nor does the other political spectrum on the left, which together sign the second initiative today, have its own problems. I'll remind you of an already legendary pre-departure settlement that many have correctly estimated to have been a bigger robbery than their own time of conversion and privatisation, for which we still have to give recognition to HDZ. But I also have to mention the new face of the left of Croatia, the urban one, which is one of the first moves in the City of Zagreb that prevailed was the abolition of the parent's measures. I also dare to call their policy hypocritical towards media freedoms which in them becomes only for their corphrases and always and everywhere, even when they write columns in which they put in the same sentence a sexual generale and a Croatian city hero Vukovar or when they call anyone who thinks differently a credential and illiterate horseman. Can we imagine the thunder of passion that would attack someone who would put a sexual generality in the same sentence and a small child of Serbian nationality who had neither wrong nor dutyfully killed on Sljemen? May God set us free. Finally, the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement considers that the Assembly should be disbanded, but only when the preconditions that we are looking for are fulfilled, which are firstly a change in the electoral law that will allow real representatives of Croatian citizens to enter the assembly, when the economic system that rests on a huge number of employees in the state and public sector and when harsh and unequivocal legislative changes are made that will once and for all be removed from our society without any corruption and clientism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108653	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected representative Marija Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108654	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing an extremely important topic here in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing the initiative I will say the united opposition in the idea that there should be a disbanding of HS, but the opposition does not do so because it believes that HS is not good, but it does so because it believes that the Croatian government is not good and it does so because it is the only institutional tool that is the Croatian opposition, the parliamentary opposition that remains, on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of those who have elected them in this Parliament, to show everything in the most complex way that in the Republic is not well. And if there's a lot of things in the Republic we don't look well every day, we follow it in the media and unfortunately we testify. Often, as MPs in Parliament, we are ashamed of everything the Croatian government does "to improve the life of its citizens". Well, because we feel it is not good that the government, which has defended its ideas and programmes on the electoral programme under the slogan "Reliable", has now completely reliably given up everything it has stood for and has promised Croatian citizens. The government in all its work in all these years under Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has just lost that, lost credibility. The government has changed more members than it currently has and has done not because the mandate, or the prime minister, has estimated that it needs a better team, that people who will run faster and give more for the implementation of the programme, for the realisation of EU funds, not to God that they need a better recovery team, but unfortunately for the reasons that Croatian institutions have forced him to do so, and for being forced to do so by corruption affairs of members of his government. And yes, that's what we can't run from in this House, that's what's actually true. This is a government where people sit or people sit behind them who have various defendants' proposals, but also a minister who was arrested during his term, one almost the only one in our recent history. And this is something that we as an opposition, a progressive opposition cannot possibly agree if we believe Croatia should be more able, we believe that Croatian citizens should live in a country of freedom, this is not a situation at the moment. We believe that Croatian citizens should not live on the edge of existence, and almost 800,000 of them currently live on the edge of existence in Croatia, that is the population of the size of the city of Zagreb. On the other hand, we also believe that areas in the Republic of Croatia must not be forgotten, and unfortunately, Bania is forgotten, that people must live with dignity and have conditions for a decent life. I am sorry that today, at this point in the assembly, there is no colleague of ours, Mayor Petrinja, because I am really interested in how she will justify on the ground what is not the result of the renovation, how she will, by returning to her citizens, explain why they continue to live in containers and why they pay such large bills for electricity. And then when we remember everything that goes through with persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and when we remember that this system is not at all socially sensitive and that this government has destroyed what was good in the Republic, which was a solid system of social welfare, then we have no more time or opportunity to list how many reasons this government has to go away, and it can only go away in a way that if we disband this assembly and return the mandates to the citizens to re-mix the cards and choose the ones they think will lead them better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108655	We have one replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108656	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Posavec, the guilty one. I was asked by a journalist the other day, who is an amannet, that is a pure Croatian word, but what is the legacy, Prime Minister Plenkovic's government as the longest ruling prime minister in the Republic of Croatia. The only thing I could think of in this very short time, and we're talking about for a few minutes is the longest list of indictees, suspects and defendants, or those who already serve sentences in Remitinc. How would you comment, and what would you say is the amannet, or legacy of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108657	Thank you. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I think that our citizens no longer have any tolerance at this zero corruption rate in the Republic of Croatia at which this government and this prime minister are called on all the time, that they no longer have the tolerance to have us all equal before the law. But what worries me more is the fact that this prime minister does not have better railways in the Republic of Croatia, there are no faster trains left, and there are no better places available for young people to stay in, and in these mandates of the prime minister in the Republic of Croatia, there are no more settlements left than the depopulation of the population, that there are no better outcomes in education, in health care, but that behind this prime minister of the school, we are not going to go into one-way rather than three-way classes and similar programs that this government has spent very successfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108658	Next is a debate on behalf of Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm gonna keep going maybe where I left off. What is this legacy left to us by the government of the longest-ever prime minister in the Republic of Croatia, so probably the longest list of defendants, convicts and those who serve the sentences in Remetinco, and unfortunately I fear that it is the only mannet in pure Croatian that will leave us with that government and because very few other achievements can actually see. Let's go in order, we want to talk about the restoration, about which rebuilding colleagues and colleagues, whether there is, in particular, a colleague and colleagues who live on the earthquake affected area, and then we who live indirectly, or at least part of us live in Zagreb, have seen how much this restoration doesn't exist, how much fiction there is, that's something that exists on paper, that's some delays that the prime minister gets on his authority, but since the renovation doesn't even exist, and that's unfortunately so. If you talk to the Zagrebers, if you go out on the street a little bit, if you move out of this home, maybe from the Upper Town, but you don't have to go far, maybe just outside the fences of Mark's square, you'll hear some other stories about that neither the city nor the government helped them, that all the interventions that they had to do alone on their own cost and that even today many years later, they don't know how or whether or not they can, for some things and some of the procedures are being compensated. We're talking about very life-threatening things, so we can't say that, of course, if you have private property, if you have some houses, you have certain obligations, etc., but we're talking about the earthquake of affected houses, we're talking about that some things had to be very fast realized, some procedures because they threatened the safety of other citizens, other properties, other property or other people's assets, we still don't have the answers, and the achievement of which is that we haven't had in the meantime. We want to talk about agriculture, so let's talk a little bit about government reactivity, about taking measures, post-festum at the end, too late, etc.? Shall we talk about the leave of our farmers to ourselves? And well, maybe critics will say, so watch out for agriculture, farmers, they're businessmen, they should organize themselves, that we should, if we understand ourselves there's nothing controversial about it, but in crisis times, in visa times, let's say that, or at times when it's going to be a vision and the way that we're going to be able to develop it, and there's something the government has to say, and the farmers are going to tell you that what's most searing is actually uncertainty, and that's that help is going to get or won't be approximately a chance of fifti fifti, that some branch or some production activity is going to be declared strategic or not going to be the same chance of fifti fifti, and we're talking about life in rural areas here, we're talking about an industry that're not necessarily dependent on some incentives, not necessarily about some money that we're going to give us as tax bonds, but a straight vision of this country and it's going to be the one where we's going to be measured. If we are talking about the post-aggression crisis in Ukraine, and then we need to talk more about agricultural production, because today we colleagues and colleagues even after we adopt a famous strategy, we don't know what we are producing, why, for whom and why we want it, are these olives, whether they are cereals, whether they are cheese, dairy, whether it's something third or whether it's olive oil, wine, dried products, we and today many years after we enter the EU, and then many years after we have decided to enter the common market and become part of the common agricultural policy we don't know what we are doing with our agricultural policy and if it's not the responsibility of this government in whose mandate we have brought so-called. Agriculture strategy, although it's all just a strategy not if you ask me, then I really don't know whose it is. We want to talk about rural areas, about demographically affected spaces in the Republic of Croatia, about the perspective for them that this government has offered, are we talking about two mandates? A lot of concrete, a lot of bricks, a lot of social homes, locker rooms, football clubs, a lot of renewed facades, but very little life and a very little perspective because if you talk to people from those same environments that you're trying to help, they'll all tell you, it's great that we have a place to change for the football game, it's great that we have where to mark St. John's Day. Florian, who has recently been a protector of firemen in a social home, that's great that we have new roads, but because of that, in a break in the free government in the May Međa, no one will remain colleagues and colleagues, not because of the new asphalt, they will remain because of the perspective, they will remain for the future they can offer to themselves, but then also to their children. And it's actually a intertwined bench that I'm trying to talk about here, so it means both restoration and agriculture and rural space. We didn't offer anything to that rural space we swear to at the end of the day. Shall we talk about foreign affairs? Of all the ministers who left Plenkovic's government, I think only one minister left without any suspicion of corrupt activities, and that's Minister Pejcinović Buric, if I forgot someone, here's some excuse for me, my colleague Murganic, but you are the exception that confirms the rule. Everyone else has gone away more or less because of these very doubts. And while I don't know her colleague Murganic or colleague Pejcinović Buric who went to a better place was a victim, let's say, under the quotes of "political rosadas" the others were a victim of the DORH. Here's the same legacy of this government that remains in our amanet and remains in history. But here we go back to foreign policy. What have we done in foreign policy for Croatia? Have we solved the problems in BiH? He says and says our colleagues here to HDZ that President Milanovic recently discovered BiH, so suddenly he remembered that the Croats in BiH exist. Well, maybe it is, and you know about the Croats in BiH brother for 30 years, and what did your policy do, not for 30 years in the last eight years? Have we solved one problem? We didn't, no. Is that perhaps the reason for this government's departure? I don't know. Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem is still the region most affected by all the evils that affect Croatia, you want from brand..., from depopulation, social, economic devastation etc. What did we do for her? Nothing again. We've got a so-called. The project “Slavonia, Baranja and West Srijem” which is what I was just talking about, concreteisation and that is about it. That's what our government offers our citizens under quotes, say so "passive" or I'd say exposed areas. We'll give you a lot of asphalt, give you a lot of bricks, but is that a perspective? It's not. And I actually think that the crime of this government is primarily a lack of vision. If vision exists we'll all agree sooner or later that in some things we say it together, but no visions. The vision is ad hoc, shoot the money there or shoot the money there or give it to this guy or give it to him, but what's the extra value of it? Little to nothing, and that's why we're asking this government to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108660	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108661	Thank you. And here's a little bit of a reigning breath and will for this debate, and there's two left here with us from the ruling majority. I met this fellow Habib in the hallway, and I'm saying that he hasn't been doing well since the morning because we were on one show together and they're not at the level of the task today, and that definitely Andrej Plenkovic won't be pleased that they're defending the government today and the way they stood up against this decision to disband the assembly. But it's not easy to defend this government either, so here I have an understanding for my fellow Habian, after all these great affairs and moves, in fact, we can freely say that they don't care about Croatian citizens. I also spoke in this case from a European court where the government played for banks and against consumers, against Croatian citizens. They spoke to colleagues here and these new ministers, so not only those who went but those new ones who came to the government who didn't actually take over the ministerial post, but they have to explain where they got these assets instead of dealing with the renovation and everything they must have come to the government for, but here comes my colleague Deur, I believe I'll get a few lines. What I wanted through this debate, and already yesterday to warn the ruling that one important item, or I would say one of the most important things that happened at the end of last year, and in this year it is a referendum where more than 400,000 people signed to hold a referendum to try to fool around. Within a month, the Constitutional Court was due to decide on the constitutionality of our issues, so on April 8th, the referendum issues of counterparts Deur, Habian and others voted that these referendum issues go to the Constitutional Court. Within a month, it was time to take a stand by the Constitutional Court whether these issues were constitutional, of course, but ruling as long as possible to extend the story and now the Constitutional Court, we read it will not make a decision within a month but only 18 because some additional documentation has reportedly come to them. When I asked the speaker about the additional documentation he was working on, he said phonograms came from the parliamentary committees, I don't know how it affects whether it is issues, whether the issues are constitutional or not, if we, with the signatures of the citizens, gave an explanation of the referendum issues. After all, constitutional judges have known about our referendum issues since the 12th month of last year, and they still have no position. It is obvious to them that the issues are constitutionally impenetrable and now that Šeparovic will do what with his best man Bačić. What's he doing with him? This guy keeps calling him, it's not easy for Sheparovic, Branko sat on the phone and called for it to collapse, and there are no constitutional arguments, no constitutional arguments for it. And it buys, buys time. Time is being bought because there is no telling what will be done with the hot potato, but 400,000 citizens signed it and demanded a referendum. And we will have this referendum and we will never again allow two or three people to deny human rights and freedoms without asking the Croatian Parliament, without the widest possible consensus 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. So, we will be with the citizens, we will defend their human rights and freedoms and it is good that in the Croatian Parliament, not only thanks to MOST, but thanks to some other clubs of representatives, either those who did not allow the ruling and the headquarters to restrict their rights and freedoms, so by deciding two or three people and doing so on an arbitrary basis. When elections are then you can cross the border when you match the HDZ when you don't respond then you can't. Or when Hrebac should come here to vote for the ruling majority then there is no isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108662	A new violation of the Rules of Procedure is the first respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108663	So I refer to the rules of the Rules of Procedure regarding her injuries because my colleague Grumoja said that two members and members of the HDZ were in the hall, and he forgot to count this number and vice president of the assembly, which means that three of them were not said accordingly. The truth, but for empirical reasons, I just wanted to see if it would make me a note. [[Three, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108664	Okay, and then a warning. The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is a respected Domagoj Hajdukovic, so I don't know The bush was counting wrong. [[I, it's my fault, I miscounted here.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108665	Thank you very much. Article 238, you insult all MPs on this side of the Assembly of the Right. You're talking about arguments when they were interested. Here's an empirical speaking from experience have you ever experienced that anyone on the other side of the assembly was actually interested in an argument? I'm afraid not, and that's why you're wasting your breath here and wasting our time on a stupidity called arguments and facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108666	I'll answer later. I can't answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108667	Well, that was a replica, you get a warning. We have a line of respect for Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108668	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm really trying to choose words in all my debate and I'm not insulting anyone, so I'm not going to say any harder words now than not to believe your persuasion of meeting with my colleague, Habib, the more he's here, and we can check it out so he can say that we're bad at this debate right now, that we're badly opposed to your alleged arguments. If you don't feel like we're really responding to the replicas of your debate, it's because for two years we've been listening to the same stories that aren't arguments, but they're some of your large parts of the structure. So, I'm wondering if he really said that we didn't participate well in this debate and did he really say that he was going to be Andrej Plenkovic with Unsatisfactory? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108669	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108670	So, if I'd said anything incorrect, I think a colleague of the Habian would've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you're saying that I said something I didn't say. I didn't say that my colleague, Habiban, said that they were standing badly, but I told him that it was bad for him since morning alone, since this morning's show where my colleague Bencic was and today that you're not at the level of the mission. I know you don't like to hear it, and we'll see what the boss's reaction will be. The only thing he'll likely be very pleased with is his colleague Majda, who's always at the height of the task.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108671	Next replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108672	Well, it's hard to be at the height of a task. Let me ask you something like this, very honest and very human. Would you be at the height of that task? So defend indefensible, defend lack of vision, defend lack of action, defend something that ha at least is indefensible. And when we're talking about insecure then it's really in the ranks of something that no normal Wald would believe because let's just look at the arguments, the facts that aren't at the price here but here's what you're using. What's done? What's done? Are we a better country than we are eight years ago and in what segments? I wish we could talk about it today, so if we could say it, it's not done enough here. But I'm afraid nothing's been done anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108673	You said in the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I went to demean HDZ representatives because I naively believed that arguments meant something, I didn't want to demean them, but I really wanted to believe that arguments meant something to this and to other discussions. So here I gave full confidence, so to HDZ representatives and in good faith I performed in my performance, I didn't want to belittle them. But, unfortunately, it turns out that the arguments mean little, because that the arguments mean something on Fridays would vote differently, and every Friday they still raise their hands for everything this government sends here and will defend to the last breath, means Andrej Plenkovic, even though they feel that certain changes are happening, and that the current that has taken place against Plenkovic has greatly strengthened the HDZ. So I said something to my colleague Majda in the hallway, but I don't have time to convince her now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108674	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108675	So, I can't believe I have to defend my colleagues from HDZ. Article 238 was injured because you keep saying they're voting in something they don't believe in. I think they believe what they're voting for. Oh, no, how can you say that, so we're better off, so we've made as much progress as we are. Well, don't do that to any of your wonderful colleagues and colleagues you can argue with.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108676	Okay, this was a replica. You're getting a warning. Next is a debate on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This assembly should be dissolved first of all because it has become an antithesis of its idea. The history of this disease doesn't begin in this term, but it culminated in it, and most of all by your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. I'll explain. First of all, because you do not participate in a debate in good faith. This debate is the best example. You had a debate on behalf of the club. Branko Bačić has reported one individual debate, all others are few and insignificant injuries to the Rules of Procedure instead of replicas, here and there. And the replica doesn't exist so you don't get an answer. And that fear of dialogue is the second reason for your guilt. You're in fear because you know we're all right when we say things are wrong. You know for a fact that HDZ personnel is exhausted and that dear leader is unreachable to everyone except his chosen circle of favorites and favorites. So you treat frustration over your own indifference by whispering to each other in the halls of this House and making sure you don't accidentally say the wrong thing to the wrong person. And here in the assembly, be careful to say only what you are expected to say. This is what we had many times heard today in the phrase of the great success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. That's the iconic phrase that must be spoken. Of course, that's as long as your leash allows, no more. Your words are not yours. You get them. You get them along with your own comments that you must refer here in the form of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. That's what we had a chance to see today. You have become colleagues and colleagues from HDZ political cannon meat whose value per kilo of live scales, unfortunately, is very low. You actually seem like a gallery of characters from Dylan's Desolation Row, tragic. You know that, we know that, and citizens know that. And that's why you're looking after your party's future justifiably, so humanly devastated and intimidated completely justified. Trust me, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ when the elections are indeed held and one day you will regret not having called them today. Is there any life in HDZ after Plenkovic? The answer you and I both know, he makes me happy. I'm sure you don't. And if this Parliament remains antithesis of its ideas some of the following will not be, some of the next will be what the Parliament should be home to democracy. We'll take care of that and the citizens and we as their representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108678	Could be a replicated representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108679	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Glavasevic, I'd like to sign your speech just to add one more thing, and you're a fellow linguist, I believe you'll appreciate that contribution. I can't take the impression that you only need one sentence of completion of Cetherum censeo Carthagina's esse delenada as Mark Pontius Katon Stari said, or besides I think this Parliament should be disbanded or this government should be disbanded. Why? I think you've said enough in the mere reckoning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108680	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108681	Thank you for that replica of my colleague Hajdukovic. Yeah, I think I actually opened up with the fact that he needs to be disbanded and that's what we agree on. In fact, I think the big focus in this debate was on the government itself, but this is a debate first of all about the Parliament, about us. And later on, I'm going to say something to my individual debate about it, but there's a huge point in the whole story of how important and strong and important this side of the assembly is is, and it should have been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108682	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108683	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Glavasevic, I really expected a lot more from your debate. You complain on this side that we no longer participate in the debate here, that we have nothing to defend, but really do you think that you should react again to one of those same phrases that we haven't listened to just today for a few hours but since we've been here in this assembly where you're accusing us of everything and everything. Okay, you can handle it, but you as a politician who you've already been educated, who you've been a government official, can you really let yourself tell us here to adults that we're so scared, that we whisper quietly in the halls, that we're in such terrible fear, that we know absolutely nothing, and that someone doesn't write anything, so there will really be governments, there will be lives after Andrej Plenkovic, there will be all of us, but we need to keep our heads up and keep walking around this world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108684	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108685	Thank you. First of all, we do not complain, but we regret that you do not participate in the debate. It's an important thing, we don't complain, we complain, and eventually we complain that we understand each other. To your question I would answer like this, can you allow yourself, any of you, really your sincere opinion to speak from this side of the assembly about any ideological issue? Can your colleague Deur, for example? You let her say what she honestly thinks I don't know the Istanbul Convention has already passed a little, but for example. I didn't hear him debate some appointments in this government, for example, and in other times he had very loud statements about it, but it was another time and another HDZ president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108686	No more replicas, you're done, you can sit down. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nada Murganić please. [[Coughing in progress: Mr. Vice President]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108687	Art. In 238, a colleague really insists on insulting us MPs, now dares and says what any of us think and represent some of our ideological views. The Istanbul Convention is not a very good answer and an excuse for you, you have had a long time to prove that you represent this ideology that is in that convention, so you have not confirmed it, and we will see how you will continue to act now because you have concluded this opposition from very different ideologys and ideologicals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108688	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you're getting a warning, so I guess somebody's counting, we have another injury, a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108689	Art. 238, I'll have a second warning, I'll count right now. Dear counterpart Murganic, who is ideologies in the Istanbul Convention, is ideology when we want to fight violence against women and domestic violence, is that ideology? No, no, that's the necessity, that's the obligation we have as individuals in political society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108690	Okay, as you said yourself, I apologize, Mr. Bauk, for raising your hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108691	Mr. President, I would ask you to increase the temperature in this class or two assembly with your authority and other mechanisms at your disposal, because I was cold because of it, anything that beats my air conditioning because I see that my colleagues are in short sleeves, but I would ask that my work conditions still be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108692	It's, it's the worst place, so move to the middle. The violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Nada Murganic, he did give up or you did not. [[I'm going to trade Arsena for places, I'm hot.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108693	In 238, Mr. Grbin always likes to twist something, so I didn't talk about the ideology of Istanbul, but I answered the call of MP Glavasevic that because of ideology, some MPs pulled a manual, and I'm talking about what you missed out on, and you really like to brag about it, and you have nothing to boast about because there are too many holes in your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108694	You've been warned. A fellow who's talking right now. He's leading, he's keeping a record desk. [[Clip incursion: water, water]] The debate follows on behalf of the HSS and RF MPs, Katarina Peovic, respected. My colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108695	Here's when my colleague Glavasevic evoked Hegel to lean on the thesis, antithesis, synthesis, he says it's antithesis, I'm going to mention something that Hegelian said on the right side of the HDZ and beg the left hand side to remember that syntagm of the farce tragedy. I must admit that I am not a better description of the success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic if we will hear of phrases than the tragedy of the farce at the same time tragically, but also farsiically, we laugh and cry at the same time. But what I would like to dedicate to my presentation is a good opportunity that we have here today, means a little longer, a longer possibility of discussing comments on the successes of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and it really takes all afternoon, not enough one morning, we need all day to do so. Why? All morning it means when we had that opening statement we listened to on the right, but always the same arguments and I'm convinced that there's some jokebachter that's being shared between HDZ and I'd like to have us answer to that with our counterarguments of thesis, antithesis. So we've heard of higher employment, so every time praises here on the right are always forgotten to say, so they're going to say higher employment, higher wages, higher pensions, higher GDP, larger exports, etc., each time they're going to forget the word of a very important few important things. The first thing is that in relation to me, I don't like to praise the SDP, but in this case I really have to praise them means in relation to the SDP government it's about conjuncture, so the SDP government ruled at one time, the HDZ government comes in another time when we're talking about conjuncture that it was artificial intelligence at the prime minister's place we would get some better numbers, even with these favourable relationships in which the first HDZ government began to mess up. They managed to mess up even with the favourable development of the situation, so with reforms, five tax reforms that went only in favour of the richest, means income tax reforms for those who receive the most benefits for those who receive the incomes of more than 30,000, this has shown that these are people who are saving, who are not spending, that tax reforms have gone to progressive taxation to offer better conditions for those poor, they would spend it because we have people who practically work and live in poverty, we have people who mean a good part of the population that literally works, but their pay is not enough to meet basic living needs. These people with them went tax reliefs they probably spent, spent for basic needs, for food that could boost their food industry that was ruined in all food categories we produced more than 50% 30 years ago, we might be able to boost our pharmaceuticals that we saw how important none of that is in the crown, the Immunological Institute is still standing. We could have saved the shipbuilding, not if the clientele groups were still pouring into their pockets while at the same time working on destroying shipbuilding, maybe we could have saved Orljav our textile industry where we settled into the lohn jobs, meaning these extra jobs that had no added value, and where we had excellent products etc., etc. So you have to answer every time to Andrej Plenkovic and the jokebachter who drives here at HDZ, so we're going in line. So employment, HDZ manipulates the number of employees because you count the number of insurance companies that are not and the number of employees. That's where you add tens of thousands of people more. Yeah, there's been a rise, but you don't say it's the number of insurance guys, not the number of employees. People aren't employed, but the insurance companies are tens of thousands of people more count them in their statistics. But that's not all, nor is it scary, let's say, we'd still forgive you. You forget to say that we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, the lowest employment rates in Europe only 66.9%,... The EU average of 72.4% of almost a million people in employment is not employed. What country can advance that has almost a million job-worthy people who are not employed, means a huge pool of people? He can't, absolutely. But it's not a real picture, because you don't count your employment by mentioning how many people have moved out. 17.6% of the population, the working-age population has moved out. The EU average is you know how much? 3.3%, beware 3.3% compared to 17.5%. Let's move on, pay. We heard from the new Labour Minister, the largest ministry to be given to a man who, along the way, told the Labour Committee if anyone noticed our new minister said he wasn't going to do a new Labour Act. Obviously he is not aware that it is necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the Labour Act in order to comply with the directives and that this should happen now in a few days, I think when he takes over the function clearly he is not even familiar with what awaits him. So the salary, and there's this new minister who even our chairman didn't know what his name was called, the wages were... said that Plenkovic kept saying that the government had raised the base by 18% since 2012. From 2014-2018 In the Republic of Croatia, wages are growing 14%. Do you know how much wages have grown in Romania and Bulgaria? In Bulgaria 44% and Romania 85%, with us 14%. The prime minister also boasts that our new labour minister has grown minimum wages, the share of minimum wages in average wages is 60%, but what is the share of nothing? We have some of the lowest minimum wages in Europe that have grown the weakest in the last 10 years. Our minimum wage is absolutely pathetic, it meets one-third of the monthly needs, one-third of the monthly basic needs meet the minimum wage. Slovenian minimum wage is at the level of our average salary. The prime minister promises us that the growth of the minimum wage, so let him just take the minimum wage in Slovenia, he promises us that this will be the average salary. Let's move on, pensions. The peace was growing slightly, with the last alignment of 2.46%, but nothing grew compared to inflation. So the collection of basic products prices, the pensioners did not feel it at all, is the average pension in December 2020. It was €2.566. The share of pensions in wages until recently was poor 39%, otherwise in dark socialism was 70%, but now it's even worse, now 37.4% of the share of pensions in average wages it falls down, he boasts that how many pensions they raise, 52% of pensioners we all know living below the poverty line, we're talking about an entire population that is completely poor. Let's move on, poverty, and Plenkovic will never mention who we are, how we compare with others compared to other countries how poor we are. So we are the 8th worst country in the EU according to the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Which means poverty and social exclusion, there's a lot of these meanings of the category to which it's measured, but maybe the most complex thing is that over 50% of the people in this country can't handle the sudden cost, you can't afford a machine, you can't buy a machine, you can't buy a washing machine in this country if, if this old one goes away, that's what I'm talking about. The GDP, it's constantly boasting, and that's, that's just the kind of reflex that we're constantly listening to "no greater GDP growth has ever seen". GDP fell to us in 2020. More than in all the countries in the neighborhood, I think that the most behind us was about 4% if I remember correctly, means the biggest drop and then suddenly the hilarious growth, so normally that the hilarious growth if you had a hilarious fall last year, means one of the lowest GDP growth per capita, in 2020. The lower GDP of us had only Bulgaria and Greece, there is no time to say anything more about these huge exports, these huge investments and ratings, which I may later if I get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108696	We have a replica, a respected representative of Nada Murganic, a pardon for hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108697	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, MP Peovic persistently presented the untruth, particularly regarding Minister Marin Piletic. On a committee where more than 40 of us attended, she fantasized about some secret Act of Labour in which she blamed HDZ, as well as the minister that we would challenge the right to father leave or the right to parental leave of fathers, and also now she makes up that it's not the Labour Act, it's the second drink upside down. Yes, the minister announced that the government and he are going to amend the Labour Act in two directions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108698	Time, time. This is your third warning and you lose your right to debate until the end. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108699	Thank you. I'm so glad my colleague Murganic that you decided to do this infraction with the Rules of Procedure because last time I didn't get to answer that question. So you're saying that I'm lying that in that draft of the Labour Act it's not true that my father's right to have seven days after the birth of a child, I'm not lying, I can also deliver that bill to you, but you know what, even if I'm lying, so why didn't you put that draft of the Labour Act in public, so no one could lie to you and make it up to you, but already 2. You're holding negotiations, and we don't know what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108700	Time, time. And you get, you get a warning, this is your third warning, you lose the right to debate until the end of this point. Next is the debate on behalf of the proponent of the respected representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108701	Thank you. Talking about old shame is always educational, it's always educational. We had Agrokor, someone might remember that, someone doesn't remember, we had... The purchase of INA, we had different promises, we had pledges to GDP growth that actually meant nothing to citizens, we have inflation that is slightly different again, it's not the same inflation for people who have two children, who are single, who are retired, so their basket is much different, so inflation is about 15% for them, and for us sitting here is probably inflation 4%, it's different what we spend and different are the services we use. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, we still have that it's not a good time, that war in Ukraine, that inflation, that's a high price of energy, and nobody's wondering that the most valuable liquid is actually liberal democracy and the role and importance of institutions that then have some reflection on society, and the assembly has a very bad perception that is one of the most important institutions of parliamentary democracy, the institution of parliamentary democracy, and that's why I think it's synthesizing, and I'm not going to make new card mixes or anti-thesis, different clubs of opposition and left and right I think it's really necessary and then it's necessary for the parliament to disband and to return trust in the institutions, to make new card mixing, but ultimately whoever decides about it, don't decide our political enemies, I say political enemies don't mean like this, but the great leader, and the big leader wants every HDZ't want to be able to be the big-to be the big leader, because the big guy who wants to be the big bad, but the big guy who wants to be the big guy, and the big guy, and the big guy, and the big guy who wants the big guy who wants to be the big guy, who wants to be the big bad, who wants to be the big bad, but the big guy, but the big guy, who wants to be the big bad, and the big bad, and the big guy. He gives you one, one HDZ two to you, one to two HDZ, three to you, one to two to three HDZ, four to you, one to three to four HDZ, and on that side of the table is a big, big pile. And for that very reason, because no one here is all cow, the SDP is looking for what's most honest, and these are parliamentary elections, so let's both see what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108702	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter of respected Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108703	Thank you, Vice President. Corruption and we talked about it is not only a government problem, corruption has entered all the pores of our society, corruption is in the state's attorney's office, corruption is in courts, corruption is in the police, corruption is in education, corruption is in science, corruption is in health care. And how much corruption is there, perhaps the best testimony to the fact that at lower levels the police are in the service of the ruling local sheriffs in the service of HDZ. Let's remember that Zadar pensioner who wrote on Facebook that Andrej Plenkovic and Bozinovic should be welcomed with eggs, he didn't even say that they should be shot at, but that they should be welcomed with eggs. What happened? The Zadar HDZ informs police, police are pressing criminal charges, and a ridiculous criminal report falls in court, but the police are attached to the HDZ account. We now have the latest case in Vukovar-Srijem County, the mayor got drunk, maybe it'd be better to say that he was drunk, hit the wall, barely got out of his car, and then called his friend or godfather, I can't remember now what the relations he was in were that he also committed some serious crime a few years ago, and they set up with the help of the police that the mayor wasn't a driver but a passenger, the mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County, so the police assisted that mayor not only in the fact that he made a car accident in an alcoholic state but went and covered up the real situation. And this would first be enough for the mayor to resign, HDZ is still defending him and Mayor Dekanic says he is being pressured, media pressures are being made to resign, but I will not give it. So imagine you cheeks, imagine the cheeks after he committed that fraud after he put the police in his service and now he says there are pressures on him to threaten to force him to resign. But thank God there are oppositions in Vukovar-Srijem County, our Kristina Bakula follows the case awake, warns our county councilwoman and you won't get away with it. Just like you didn't get away with all these corruption affairs. And eventually you'll have to file an account for what you've done to Croatia. And it's not so much that corruption is a problem, it's not a problem that you've devastated the state, making county budgets, making urban, municipal budgets, the problem is that many of you killed hope in Croatia. Many have decided to leave Croatia because of the Decanic and such, many have seen that this is not Croatia in which everyone has the same opportunity to succeed in getting a job, to have equal access to justice and justice, this is Croatia where there are those who are privileged, and these are the ones who are privileged with your identity card or those close to you, not to list all tycoons and how you protected them and how they have avoided answering to the Croatian judiciary. But no one's got a gorilla by dawn, and this candle of yours ends, this Plenkovic's corrupt structure goes to its end, you're aware of that, and it's up to you. No enthusiasm, no desire to defend this government, and your position shows that you agree with what the opposition is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108704	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108705	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, my colleague Grumoja deviates from one of the usual rules of conduct in this HS, so I don't know if my colleague Grumoja has run or is trying to be a commentator of the week that's been happening all along the HS, so he's actually been telling us for the last hour who's been telling the halls, convincing some local stories that are happening in the Republic, and not saying what's happening, or what he himself suggested. So stick to the subject, and I hope your colleagues will congratulate you that you are really the most active today, that you really are a commentator of the week.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108706	Okay, you know that's not a breach of the rules of procedure, you get a warning. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108707	Thank you, Vice President. Another reason why this assembly of parliaments should be disbanded is its complete dysfunction in those parts in which it should take nominal part in co-creation of European and foreign, European policies and foreign policies. And yet one of the main reasons for this is the fact that HDZ has allowed the full focus and focus not only on policymaking, not just the legislative process, so all of it to be transferred to executive power. So, the Croatian Parliament is in all areas, so both in EU affairs and in foreign policy are fully established. Therefore, the Committee on European Affairs has special opportunities, for example, to give opinions on certain issues, to monitor subsidiarity, so these are all things that the Committee on European Affairs in which most of the HDZ has not done. And there's no room to do that, because there's no political will for it. One of the few recognizable strategic goals of Andrej Plenkovic and his governments so far has been the approximation of the Croatian core of the EU, primarily through the entry into the euro area and Schengen. I think we understand each other, it's not just Andrej Plenkovic's policy, nor is he particularly brilliant. It's something that, one of the few areas of consensus in our policy has been from loneliness to today. And it's one of the relatively rare common foundations that we can find in the Parliament. However, his other actions, Andrej Plenkovic, in fact, have put those goals at risk. The Euro is now certain to us, although we understand our Green-left bloc's club and not only us, but we have mainly warned of the fact that the debate on the euro should have been conducted in a different way regardless of how much we agree or disagree on the euro, but given that it is a very certain entry into the euro area, that the preparation should be done in a different way. This has not happened, and the consequences will be suffered by our citizens and citizens. Another thing is the Schengen around which, therefore, which acted as a rather promising thing that might happen. However, this Schengen was earned by pushbacks working on our borders which are ironic, completely something contradictory to the idea of approaching the core because you act as a border. And that dirty job we don't know who it was done for. But whoever supported Andrej Plenkovic and his minister Bozinovic in doing those dirty push backs is now no longer sitting in the European Council because the situation has changed there. That's where he got the quiet support for it. Now the situation has changed there, and now because of these push backs, completely colleague Peovic would say the neocolonial one of the servants' actions, Schengen is now at risk because of it. There is also, of course, a problem of conflict with the President of the Republic, above all, I think, which has become too much for the appointment of ambassadors. It's not the only fault of the Prime Minister. For tango, it takes two, but is absolutely co-responsible for the fact that Croatia currently does not have ambassadors in more than half of the countries where we have representatives of colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I think I could talk a lot more about probably another separate element of failure in our foreign and European policy called Gordan Grlic Radman, who is the living sketch of Monty Python, we could call him ministers of tooks because his speeches entered the legend if nothing else, the anthology of absurdity in any case. But I'm gonna stop here and I'm gonna have a later intervention, so we can get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108708	Next is a debate on behalf of the promoter, respected Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108709	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. A little over a month ago, we discussed great concern for Croatian farmers, which is that the European Commission is having a hard time punishing the Ministry of Agriculture and that Croatian farmers remain without 30m euros, or 10% of direct incentives. Due to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus this blow to Croatian agriculture is also a blow to national security. In April 2022, the European Commission sent a document criticising the 2023 to 2027 Strategic Plan for Agriculture, confirming any criticism by the European Commission over the past months. The number of criticisms shows how bad the situation is in agriculture, and the question arises why Prime Minister Plenkovic did not actually replace the agriculture minister Vukkovic. It is very certain that this correction will take place, and the cost of not working on this ministry will ultimately be borne by our citizens. One of the reasons for the possible reduction of incentives is the lack of control of the availability of funds on the ground by the paying agency in agriculture. The European Commission also stated in its recommendations that 20% of users receive as much as 77% of direct payments. Furthermore, a letter from the European Commission requires a review of the strategy of redistribution and complementing the reasons for quantitative analyses that will enable the European Commission to assess whether the plan is sufficiently targeted at a fairer distribution and more effective and efficient direction of direct payments. The agreement on a common agricultural policy at EU level was agreed and adopted on 2.12.2021, 5 months after the agreement on a common agricultural policy where are we? Croatia has now come out on a second deadline with an uncertain result. We have warned here and have been very actively involved in a series of discussions from the farm portfolios to point out great difficulties in the functioning and future of Croatian agriculture, from a great delay in the adoption of laws to a series of harmful and bad laws for Croatian agriculture. Although the ministry has always taken their hand on our warnings now and will not be able to shake hands because of a series of objections relating to the proposal of the Strategic Plan on Agriculture. That young, women and small farmers are not the interests of this ministry is clear, but an even greater defeat of Croatian agriculture is when we can read that our current minister defends the very ones of which the incentives benefit the most. It is also not just a way of assigning incentives, there is also an allocation of agricultural land, and a series of laws that rightly please only the large ones. As much as it says about the work of the ministry itself, we won't talk much, but we can continue to talk about the unfair grant of grants, about not finding in the ministry itself without a clear vision and a goal, and all in preserving its own positions. What is worrying is that Croatia will indeed get a smaller amount in the next period or that the share of direct payments in the total financial envelope is reduced from 43% to 38%. The Green Plan is something we have been talking about for years, but in Croatia it cannot liven up. It is crucial to stress that the biggest and the only damage will again be the most sensitive, and Croatian agriculture will continue to fail despite the fact that everyone is already aware that we have the potential to become self-sufficient and independent of import food. Instead of being subsidiaryally dependent on European resources, our connection is essential and that is what makes us actually small and what needs to be changed. We've passed a new Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land even though no procedure has been done in the old days, and then we've done a series of pilot projects, and then we're turning around even though we've had a secure financial envelope. Who has the most damage from the Ministry's tampering? It's a Croatian farmer. The Law on Agricultural Land 2018 is being passed, and now we already have third amendments that completely alter the way of the score and should have already been voted, but there is obviously a lot of still reluctance and amendment or pressure of a third species that the ministry does not know what to do with it. The government's reconstruction has bypassed the problem in the agriculture ministry, which has not been driven in accordance with the interests of peasants for years, and this act of agony continues to prolong. This has only touched the surface functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture which is without vision and plan and new elections are the only and fair option for the interests of Croatian peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108710	On behalf of the promoter, the respected Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108711	In his presentation, he spoke about that when you talk about that you are the majority and that you can make all the decisions, that we should not, in fact, be able to run any kind of debate here in HS, he reminded you that the opposition received 200 thousand votes more than the ruling ones and you have one touchy, fragile majority for a long time, and I was here last Friday when we had a debate on the return of the former Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, now a representative in HS, presented a worrying fact, which is that Croatian laws are not in line with the current election practice. Namely, the 1999 Law on the Election of Representatives in HS states that members of national minorities can vote for one candidate, and the DIP press releases on top of which it says they can round up three candidates, which is the opposite of the law and then we have SDSS's jokes that surrounds Pupovac round up two more candidates and we get 3 MPs from the SDSS. Perhaps another Serbian party would have entered HS if it hadn't been for such an illegal model. I'm not sure that Simpraga would get Milakovic from Vukovar to get more votes than him to round up one, one candidate. If by any chance Milakovic in HS the question is how much would you have an MP or if you had enough for the majority, although we see that lately certain tokens have been harvested, the Krelja has been harvested, though in one decent way, comes, comes on Fridays, raises his hands, but does not do the dirty work for HDZ, does not attack the opposition. We've got Zekanovic, he chipped not in the sense that he's raising his hands for the ruling but to do all the dirty, dirty work, attack primarily the Most and President of the Republic, I guess a man hopes he'll be on the list. I see, the HDZ list, I see, published on Twitter the other day that I tipped Peggy Grbino off that I saw him outside the bathroom with HDZ spokeswoman and HDZ chief secretary Katičić. I did see him, but I didn't tell anyone, I didn't tell anyone because it's perfectly normal for Zekanovic to talk to HDZ and I don't even think Kabok is giving him instructions, but Zekanovic himself is trying to get as close to HDZ as possible, and he's walking into these squadrons as she was with alleged cocaine here in the Croatian Parliament. So, without the HDZ knowing, he's doing it, but it won't help him, he'll end up alone and alone. Because here and Deur is moving a little bit away, so from Plenkovic even though he was as firm as he was standing next to Colinda, he's been standing so tight for the past few years with Plenkovic, but it's also on him to look for a new boss. So, after Colinda Plenkovic and now the new boss and I have a feeling that he could support if he entered the Croatian Parliament, that he could support the new government, that he could support the new government and it's visible in the way he talks to me about how he wants to be in good relations. So what's very important here is to say the government is fragile, the government is thin, the government has a weak majority and the question is what is the legitimacy and most of what I've been saying about the SDSS is. And here's my colleague, Deur, and he's taking pictures of me and he's probably gonna be able to watch me for a little while tonight when he gets home. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108712	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is respected by Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108713	Thank you, Vice President. 238, then, a colleague of Grmoy's actually making a circus out of everything. If there's nothing to talk about, then this kind of thing doesn't have to offend the MPs, to insinuate their stories and their thoughts about it. It's really below the level of some serious parliamentary agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108714	You're getting a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next is the individual debate of the respected Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108715	Thank you. So we touched agriculture, businesses, economies, etc. So it's time to look a little bit at culture, culture in the sector, so Minister Obulen Koržinek. In the autumn of 2016, the cultural public was satisfied with even more than that by choosing the new minister. It was believed in its education, knowledge of the sector, experience of work in the state administration. It even agreed for political reasons, believing in its expertise and knowledge, it was believed and hoped that the decision-making processes would be at least as inclusive as former ministers Biskupic and Mesic in whose administrations today's minister was in high places. Reason and desire to improve the culture and art sector were believed to overcome ideological differences. Of all this, almost nothing has happened, unfortunately. The amendments to several basic laws were announced in the first term, but they did not see the light of the day but thus clearly showed the work style of Minister Obuljen. Therefore, non-transparent and insufficient working groups for the making of proposals, and even in such small groups, significant attempts to manipulate and impose finished solutions with which the profession disagreed. Then came the unfortunate epidemic. There the minister also showed carelessness and insensitivity to non-existential problems and independent scenes and independent artists who, under the conditions of lockdown and epidemiological measures, were indeed thrown on their knees. For years, this highly creative group has struggled in the conditions of overstretchedness, and then the epidemic has really pushed them over every edge into literal poverty. It should be recalled here that unlike all economic operators, they received only four months of support, four at the beginning of the epidemic and one after one year were expelled by the signatures of their fellow employees. All other economic operators received regular monthly support for the preservation of jobs, but independent scenes and independent artists were left by both the minister and the Croatian government. Now the plans for new laws are coming back again. I'm not going to go into the details right now, but one of them has been united, otherwise, by a very incoherent cultural and artistic scene, because the proposals hit the heart and the essence of artistic and cultural action by giving directors and bureaucracy even more power, and by pushing artists into the uncertainty of the workplace and over-precise. I will overcome the problem of the collapse of the Croatian classic all-night film on the cellolide strip, I have spoken of it twice. I will just say and repeat that the restoration of their films has ended both Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, Serbia and Slovenia are very concerned about their film heritage, about European countries not to speak. It's just that Croatia doesn't. It's just one among the many crimes of the current minister. So there's not one more significant project that we could single out in the last six years than Nina Koržinek is a Minister of Culture. They weren't thought of, let alone the key, the systemic and the necessary changes. The original belief in ability, the possibility of dialogue and inclusiveness was quickly broken and a real picture came out. The absence of the need for open communication, misunderstanding and lack of interest for the needs of the sector, the absence of transparent processes and the non-acceptation of the diversity of the dominant field of culture and art. And that is why I would say another very important reason for this government's departure and why this mandate must be returned to the citizens. Because culture and art in Croatia still deserve better, deserve a minister or minister who will put all his strength and all his knowledge in the service of providing conditions for creativity and creativity because Croatia has a bunch of great talent only lacks a better legal framework and better financial support and care structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108716	Next is a debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108717	My fellow MPs and MPs, I'm a little sorry that we're sitting on this side where HDZ is sitting, and we have a representative sitting here at the time, but that means that we're still in something as far as maybe we're not even seeing it from the public right now. I'm glad that one part of the opposition parliamentary deputies leaned upon what I was talking about, which is that we have to return the institutional role and importance of HS, we won't be able to do so in this conference, but we have to commit that this will be our primary goal in each of the following once the HDZ shift finally arrives. In fact, HS is tailoring all other institutions, and tailoring the relationship between different branches of state government, tailoring and the relationship between the president of state and government, we see how dysfunctional it is today, among other things, because of the underdeveloped provisions of the constitution. To change the constitution requires a two-thirds majority, about such a social and political consensus, even where the provisions of the constitution are not required, needed to solve those major disasters and those major problems that each government unfortunately runs away from. I'm talking about reforming electoral legislation, I'm talking about changing the course of election units, we're still in a situation where the Constitutional Court said in 2010 that we don't have the same strength of every vote in all our areas and regions, and for such major procedures, it's important that the assembly has one political width that is able to see what needs to be solved outside of the usual position and opposition division. We are increasingly seeing that this sage has no such width and there is little chance of ever having it. Unfortunately, Croatia's political life has been reduced to a food chain where the chief is the strongest, parliamentary strongest political party at its top and decides everything. And unlike that hateful party from the former system in which at least in perceptive terms the party was the one who decided about everything or some committee, or some UDBA, today we have a situation in reality that one person decides about everything, so what kind of state is it? Andrej Plenkovic is the one who chooses and replaces his ministers, and it is no wonder that these are all inexpressible characters without his own vision, without any idea, and then of course there are no results. In order for this to change, it is really necessary to change the current parliamentary position and the ruling position and I am really surprised that some who are considered as nominally today or as an opposition say that no conditions have been obtained for disbanding the parliaments and that they would have to change the electoral laws would have to change the practical rules under which the future assembly will function. Of course, in this ratio of strength can't happen, so it's clear that some opposition representatives and clubs are actually very ambiguous, and I think they're leaning on that side there, those clubs that aren't there today, not that they're gone now, there's not even a good part of today's debate today. And the fact is that all of these big things that I've been talking about since the first day we can really work out when the conditions come after the next parliamentary elections, but the basic thing that we can commit to is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, and we promise that it will never happen again that practice that unfortunately happened in the 10th session, which is that the chairs on the parliamentary committees, they are unnecessary 30, as I once said, have already been distributed before and before the Croatian congregation itself, have been established, therefore the division of the chairs and the agreement on who will chair the quotas and the results of the elections is one corrupt practice and when the assembly, and so this assembly is constitutingate in one corrupt way where everyone has received its own crumb of importance and prey, of course, it can't be different even in the overall results of their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108718	Replica, esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, colleague Oreshkovic, you wondered what kind of system this is, what kind of state is it in which only one man decides everything? When that one man is Andrej Plenkovic then I think a good name would be unencumbered absoluteism, so here's what I'm giving you as a suggestion, feel free to use it if you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108720	Yeah, that's, that's the seduction of impeccableness. Namely, Andrej Plenkovic is very smooth, very educated, but this does not change the character of the government and the character of the statehood he created and it is a process that began long before him, but I think we are now in one last terminal phase. And we also see on the international scene how dangerous it is, how dangerous it is when excessive power is given to one person, when absolutely no one can object to it, when the institutions of the state are reduced to a camel, such as today's important anti-corruption bodies, when the changes of the law are passed as a mere farce, which we are going to get today with the ethical codes of which we will decide who, who, their own crow eyes are not digging, Mr. Habian, is looking at me in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108721	Replica's esteemed representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108722	I would like to thank you first of all for raising that pause and for giving a very short, clear lecture on the Rules of Procedure and on everything that he is very often fond of over all of us here with a lot of improvisation to apply. I also want to know what you can tell me that just by getting this opportunity to talk longer and to talk on behalf of the promoter, what do you think about whether it's a lever for a political lever, for the right majority in the Parliament that didn't come to this session today and that sees it all as most parties deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108723	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108724	... He heard the one who should have heard it. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Rules of Procedure himself is caraded in their entirety not only in interpretation, it is radical as it was written. It is the Rules of Procedure who expelled the debate from the Croatian Parliament. Is this the other side that fits? It is for them that the congregation is empty, and for them it is for the citizens to think, ‘You are all the same representatives.’ None of you have anything to say, none of you have any idea how to lead the country better. This side would prefer that parliamentary debates not be transferred an hour ago, after 13 hours. I don't know if they're transferring now. This side can dictate when an insecure, uncontrollable representative comes to play some commercials just then. We're gonna change all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108725	On behalf of the promoter, the respected Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108726	Thank you. A colleague of Oreskovic spoke about how certain representatives actually justify the fact that they have a loose attitude towards disbanding the parliament, that there are no electoral lists, that we have disproportionateness between electoral units, therefore, and that the decision or opinion of the Constitutional Court is not really respected. But it's not the only problem. We have a situation that behind the scenes began negotiations on constitutional changes where the censorship needed to go to the referendum, and we do not have a organised list of voters. We have the strictest conditions for a referendum in Europe anyway, and now you're still going to introduce a censorship on an unsettled list of voters. I said here on one occasion if the SDP agrees, they will legalise such a list of voters who do not correspond to the real situation, so they will legalise everything they object to HDZ and we will certainly get up hard against it. Now we had to collect 368000 signatures as if there were 3.7 million voters in Croatia. We all know there isn't, or the list has shown that the residents are here somewhere. And then when the people under difficult conditions in winter managed to collect signatures of what you were doing? You're playing with the Constitutional Court. Branko Bačić went to bed on the phone, called Šeparovic, and then Šeparovic invents something, extends the deadline, as additional documentation delivered. What additional paperwork? What does additional documentation have to do with the Constitutional Court's decision on whether our referendum issues are constitutional or not constitutional? Since 12 months these gentlemen at the Constitutional Court know about questions. But if they bring down these referendum issues, especially this constitutional referendum, they must know that they will receive an adequate answer. And it certainly is necessary to resolve the issue, counterpart Bauk, sure it is necessary to resolve the issue, so a list of voters, which was discussed by counterpart Oreshkovic, especially before constitutional changes. But we can't wait for the ruling to resolve the issue, so the voter list to the next election, because we know it won't solve it, and we need new elections now. The MOST also requires that the Croatian Parliament be dissolved, that new elections be discussed, and if the rulings are convinced that they stand so well, I do not know why they resist this referendum. Or you greased these surveyors. You're not good at some polling when you're afraid of new choices. Not only do you stand much worse in the polls, but with this state of affairs in the polls, you have no chance of putting the government together. And it will be a salvation for this country, healingly, catharticly, to go into opposition but not for four years, but for eight years. A minimum of eight years. And this country has a chance, there's a chance for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108727	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108728	Thank you. Should we make a decision about disbanding the Parliament? I think the whole debate today is very good at saying that it is more than necessary, politically more than necessary. All attempts and all maneuvers and all that you have tried to do here today speak precisely in favour of this House being disbanded and that it really needs to be returned to the voters of the mandate and given them the opportunity to re-convening and select a different, I believe, important, more important, better-quality Parliament. I asked my colleagues at the beginning of this debate today whether we touched the political bottom. There's no doubt, you know very well that we are, and you, socially and economically, are the question. There it seems that the bottom does not exist and that people can endure in infinity and further and further. However, the political fact that a third of the population lives in extreme misery, which is called the edge of poverty, is known to us. However, about the vast majority of European indexes of indicators, we are at the very bottom and you know it well. We are at the top of only 15 thousand dead by Covid on the number of inhabitants, not only are we at the top of Europe but the whole world, that is the bottom, for which you and your Minister and your Staff are responsible. The reason we're at the bottom is that Europe gives us big money, that's why. But the fact that you claim that he is, that we're meant for that money because of Prime Minister Plenkovic, well, that's the bottom of the line. Incompetence, missing deadlines to report projects to these funds, is also the bottom. And that Plenkovic then went there and over the link the way you've been doing in this country for 30 years, so it can extend those deadlines there, too, bottom. And we all know that the problem of rebuilding was so long that Minister Horvat's task was to prevent Vanjelic from rebuilding one single building or house because he was, of course, afraid that Vangelic could run a large part of you and maybe he was the leader of you and all of you, because of that we are all waiting and there are no buildings in Zagreb or in Zagreb County, neither in Banija nor in Sisak-Moslavina County. Where's the government's majority? You're not the government's majority, you're the majority party, yes. However, these people who have made it clear to you today that they have political interests, and you, of course, read these signs, still have you here, something here and finally, and you're trying to be here, we're going to hear what you're going to say to the end, but you know very well that, first of all, the minorities you've irritated, yes, they've won something, they've fought, but I can understand, I've been in a meeting, you've been Mr. Mazhar, when Dr. Krauss spoke very clearly of what he had been saying for a year about how he felt about your law on the cry "For Home Ready". Milorad Pupovac talked about it exactly and in his interview, he said that 20 days ago in that sense in the 9th wheel some things moved significantly, and I believe that they all put pressure together here, among other things and in these directions, and that you know that there is a danger that this all bursts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108729	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108730	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking myself a question which times I've come here in the first place except for the citizens who picked me off the party list. And most seriously. Namely, if I read the explanation of what's today's agenda point, it's the disbanding of HS, and we've been talking all day about government work. Some colleagues pointed out that. So we're doing some kind of autolsonism, so we're depriving ourselves of the extension of mandates to stop this agony that the government is responsible for because it's a message that needs to be emphasized by that, this is the first time that I've been in opposition, for me otherwise, the opposition of the last 30 years, for three decades being HDZ and then, you know, a little bit of looking at someone's technical skills, rhetoric and demagogy being served, a little left, a little bit of the right side of the assembly. I can tell you, gentlemen of the HDZ, that some of your colleagues from the opposition are great students, though, they even outdone you. We were talking here, I heard about Berosh for the tragedy of a woman, but unfortunately my conscience, my responsibility tells me one thing. Beroš, who has 100, may have no sins here either, but what is my political experience, the concession for specialist offices from dental medicine and to primary health care is given by the county or the City of Zagreb. That woman asked for help from her system, from her system. Her gynaecologist referred her to where, sent her to St. Ghost. Let's not lie, let's not lie. After that, if we are unable to do something in Croatia on HZJZ's burden, let the operation go to Slovenia and that is the case. It's cruel, it's true. As is true, one more thing I've heard in free speeches about this pay phone. That the building permit for the port of Mortuary was illegal yesterday, incorrect. On 20 May 2020, the ministry did not even have parliament at that time, because we were all in the elections, it had to oversee the legality of that building permit and said everything was fine. There was no partying because we were all in the election. So maybe it's best to be in the election all the time so then the waist can start doing its job. I say I don't know who's more dangerous here in my rhetoric, taking advantage of the legitimate dissatisfaction of citizens with certain situations to gain cheap political points. But now that you're not autocritical of this side of the assembly, and gentlemen, it's worth the most to you, that's the worst solution, I urge you to really support it now at the next vote. The reason is very simple. We all know, so we've all heard about what's going on in Croatia, so it won't work out better, the war in Ukraine will have its consequences, the recovery of the earthquake is not happening. This is ideal for you. First because you have an alibi for early elections because it requires opposition because considering the ability of what is happening will be worse and worse because now and internally speaking, this exists, of course, look at something happening. If you have to start early elections to set up a minister, then you gentlemen are in trouble. It's a technical and technological question, not an ideological question. And this is, this is your best time to get rid of this problem and to have a slightly better majority, and to apologize not for having to sell the Storm for the parliamentary majority because that's what's been done. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108731	You have a replica of one, a respected Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108732	Thank you. A respected colleague for the sake of the Croatian public is important to highlight one thing, that is true Mrs. Cavida was in St. The spirit, too, in two other hospitals that are under the state. The fact is that on St. After 20 years of rule by the former mayor, who was greatly assisted by HDZ, however, in gynecology, all doctors have a conscience call. It is a new epidemic that has ruled the last 10 years of Croatian health care. The administration of the City of Zagreb has changed the administrative council, the administration of the City of Zagreb has chosen a new director for this, and certainly in the due time of St. The spirit will be a hospital where the law and human rights of women will be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108733	This one of your words in God's ears. Namely, we know that we have certain guilty consciences 10 years ago, and as far as I know, no election won yesterday. And as I said, I have experience, unfortunately, of the conduct of the government, wake up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108734	Dear Ivan Kekin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108735	Thank you. Here, I would ask you to explain to me how a legal building permit was issued for the port of Mortska since that part was not, for him no urban planning was adopted, which means that no local or construction permit can be issued unless it is a reconstruction which, in turn, the Law on Spatial Planning defines as having to take place on the same particle and defines that the new building must not significantly depart by appearance, size, or purpose. And the new project that we call reconstruction because it doesn't have an UPU is more than 150 times and is built on the same particle than on a newly composed particle consisting of several particles and which is exactly 50 times larger than this particle. So I'd like to know how you explain this creative, this creativity of our ministry that issued that building permit and declared it legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108736	So, the process began far away in 2007, and instead of answering, I will forward you a memo from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108737	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108738	I'm going to have to do a little more on Minister Beros after I spent the last debate on commenting on him and asking for his actual resignation, but he simply produced so much material. So let's start with when he's taken over the resort, and now he's 2.5 years old that he's been brought to that place by key to dealing with the pandemic. It was therefore crucial to deal with the pandemic, said Minister Kujundzic would not be able to know, and as Beros dealt with the pandemic, we see from the number of deaths of nearly 16,000, so among the top 5 in Europe, among the 10 in the world, we do not have a single sports team that was so good. And when it comes to vaccinations, we are among the last few in Europe, of course. So in the most acute, most important task for which he was brought, he had completely failed, failed, was a terrible failure. In addition, he has committed himself to reforming. A secret reform that no one has seen, which no one has seen, reportedly squatted in a drawer, which was not seen by even Minister Maric, who was endlessly frustrated by the growing debt of health, which we had heard from one session of a committee that was not known to be being recorded. Debts are increasing and higher every year because healthcare is being subdued before all every year, so this year we voted 6.4 billion less in the budget for 2022, and already after 3 months, the first quarter we can find out that this optimism was, of course, extremely unfounded. In addition to subjugation, health care is on a growing scale for the reasons that more and more spends, but this does not justify the results, so from 2014 to 2020 you can see from the HALMED report that the costs for pharmacological treatment of cancer diseases have increased even three times, but the degree of survival of cancer patients does not follow. That's, like, interesting. And don't follow for what reason. So it does not first and foremost follow the reasons why Minister Beroš, like those before him, has not designed or implemented any quality strategy, the mental health strategy, for example, we have been waiting for six years, has not produced any quality preventive program, and those preventive programs that exist in Croatia are creepyly badly designed and are even worse spent, he has not examined them and determined how effective they are. So, let's say, the Ministry of Health likes to boast about the prevention program for colon cancer, I'll remind you, the Croatian state covers only 20% of the risk population with this preventive programme, while our nearest neighbour, Slovenia, covers as much as 60%. I wouldn't brag about it if I were them. We can continue with waiting lists, with the mess that is going on because a bunch of doctors are working in the morning at the hospital, and already from 12 in private practices, we can continue to go on about the complete absence of any quality control work, we can continue on the inaccessible medical care in Zagreb, let alone outside Zagreb, we can discuss what kind of care is on the islands that you also love to boast, we can discuss that we have been promised an emergency helicopter medical service from which we have not yet seen anything, including a tender and ultimately, we can discuss that its resolution, in particular, Beroshev's resolution continuously violates the law and violates the rights of women to health care, violates women's right to decide about their own body. So, all I've stated, Minister Beros has failed to do as health minister for his citizens. And instead of dealing with all of the above, which was his task, we see that there is more interest in amending the law that regulates the early termination of pregnancy and not in the regular way, through the Parliament, which has been required of you by the Constitutional Court since 2018 but through its Committees. So until then, Croatian citizens, those who pay dearly both for the health system and for the salary of Minister Beros go to Slovenia. By the way, from Slovenia came the findings of the patient Cavide who clearly says Mirela Cavide's fruit has a deadly tumor and is endangering her mother. And what does Mireli Cavidi do with Minister Beroshe? She's being subjected to torture and torture. That'd really be enough. It's time for the government to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108739	Next individual debate, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108740	Thank you. Today, but not just today, I regularly take a look at official government documents called the reform plan and which every year the government sends to the EU Commission. For today's debate, here, I've taken a few examples of the so-called. The reforms that this Government is implementing from 2017 and 2018. I'll try to be independent and say, okay, we're not gonna take very much from 2020, okay, there was a year of earthquakes, pandemics, etc., but let's get you out of 2017 and 2018. When you compare, first of all, these documents, the reform plans and measures to be implemented are all the same because, of course, from the previous year, it was not implemented. And what it was that didn't work out. So, some basic, fundamental things for the functioning of the state. Here, so already since 2017, but also from before, but here, since 2017, your government has been saying that, for example, they will, for example, make, watch out, register of state property. So 30 years of the existence of this state, we don't have a basic record based on which we can manage the assets of the Republic of Croatia and B, implement the laws. Law enforcement. Tax regulations, no basic records. One of the constant reforms, also not of course implemented, is that the system of land books and catastras will be improved. Well, I mean, that's what citizens have been listening to for 30 years, and we all know what our condition is, are land books and catastras. And now you tell me, what kind of, how do you feel when you realize that Maria Teresa on horses made a cadastre of RH, in then borders, or Croatia, that area in 30 years, and you haven't made it with all today's technology, along with drones, along with GISs, computerisation, digitisation, etc., you have failed to coordinate the existing land books and the existing cadastre that this enlightened ruler left you with. So you didn't implement or say that you've implemented tax reform, let's see how we've implemented tax reform. Have we implemented tax reform in a way that would allow for a fairer distribution of wealth in Croatia? Have we implemented a tax reform that would tax capital and income more than work? No, I don't. We have implemented a tax reform which continues to highlight all tax revenues on those who live on their work, whether on their own and on their own, so I am also talking about workers and I am talking about craftsmen and reform that depends on VAT which is a regressive tax and is the hardest hit by the poor. So VAT and labour is what this country is taxing, but you have not implemented a reform that you also entered in the reform plan in 2017, and it says measures will be taken to introduce a value tax on real estate. What are those measures? Has anyone seen these measures? Has anyone heard of them? Do they even remember them? No, you didn't do that. Then you say you'll be careful now, it's my favorite, it's going to speed up education reform. How you're gonna speed up something that didn't even start. Here's to zero right now, and now we're going to speed it up to zero. And here's my Jura and Grga know that zero times zero is zero, or zero times three is still zero, and they're small. So, the green transition, the green transition, stop the time and please warn, I'll keep going, I'll pick up what you didn't do, but since you're already in music tone, I'll end up like this. The relationship between HDZ and Croatia is best seen in verses, nor did I love you, nor did you love me, only the old habit remained, but we'll get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108741	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108742	I hope you're not taking this fellow time. I am sorry that there are no more colleagues of the Habib who are obviously tired today and his task is to give him this recently clean things that are completely impossible to clean up and that he has agreed to do so and today I found it interesting to hear how with the very blasphemy of that fiscal sophistication he is telling him that our colleague Kekin attacked Minister Berosha who has clearly revealed the medical secret, and he defends Minister Beros... It's a presummation of innocence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This presumption of innocence is something that, for many years, does not refer to the president of the Croatian Journalist Society of Hrvoja Zovka, although he has received a powerful verdict in the Zadar court and has been proven to be the editor-in-chief of the information programme that has actually censored his work and for that there is a powerful verdict, however, even the new director of HRT Schveb could not interrupt this trial against Mr. Zovka. And now I'm going to read you what also the prominent journalist Branko Mijic says about it in his fantastic text. Three days ago, it was International Media Freedom Day, and he says, serial prosecutors in Croatia have filed at least 951 lawsuits against journalists and media. 951 charges. Harmful claims are 78.4 million kunas. And besides these 15,000 victims that Minister Beros is personally responsible for, but you and the entire headquarters, here's that information that so many damage claims and so many lawsuits, and that's one thing we're also the first in the EU. Minister Ouljen Koržinek was overly pleased that the reporters without borders had raised us up a little. In fact, she also gave a lecture on how the Croatian Journalist Society and some other words of the association should think a little bit about self-regulatory and then I guess it would be better, but it should also be said that the reporters without borders working on that index have managed to write the following. And that, the government, is the Croatian government unable to protect the press. It fails to protect them from being silenced, unable to protect them from organised crime, and what is most important is the threat of freedom of the press. And this speech will short end with another congratulations to all journalists and journalists who received the annual awards, Marinko Culic won for his life's work. However, it was research journalism, Andrej Dimitrijevic, who again won the award, Drago Hedl, Danka Derifaj who was in, she was the same candidate, the same candidate, or Simic, who now takes out everything about Paladina and be sure and you know it and knows the prime minister that you will escort him to Remetinec, all of this is clear to you. Hrvoje Šimičević, Ivan Pandžić, not to list all these powerful heroes who despite all that you are doing and not allowing yourself to be on public service, the right quality investigative journalism is being born on TV, but you are holding your Perisha Čakarun because you know that you may need it now when it will vote on this Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108743	Next is the individual debate of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108744	My colleagues and colleagues, in a country where many things are stolen, I regret not stealing ideas, or stealing those political programs there sometime before the election campaign because something that sounds good is simply nice to the voters to promise. But the problem arises when someone comes into a position that everything they say, promises, announces can be carried out in action and does not implement it. At the beginning of this term, I put together a strategy to combat corruption which, in good faith, I expected at least some segments would accept this power if nothing else were to be added to those people from Brussels. There was nothing of it, so I neither expect the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to accept the issues for amending the Rules of Procedure that I have spoken so much about. I don't think it's even good for him to change in a way that changes here and there. You just need to make a new one. New wine in new blends and how to be with the Businessman in the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And it would be nice if when the first next government were behind this speaker represented its programme, then the Croatian Assembly's design in terms of the parent working bodies would be tailored according to the number of resolution ministries. And then each individual gets their part of the job. Give us some more concrete ideas, because today we are talking about disbanding the Parliament because it has not carried out its basic task, which is to control the government's work, so let's announce what, at least most resolution ministers might or should do. I'll start with the Justice and Administration Department. On the trail of amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests which killed and fully euthanized one important anti-corruption body and on the trail of this meaningless and barren Ethic Code adopted today, I will note that this concept should be fully abandoned and a new anti-corruption body formed in some subsequent assembly. We don't have to call him an anti-corruption agency like states do in the environment. We can call it the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which will contain those powers that the Committee of Conflict of Interest now has but we will upgrade that body with both some new instruments and tools and with a stronger control system as well as stronger sanctions. Until the sanctions are a loss of mandate and a obligation to compensate for damage to the state budget for any situation of conflict of interest, corruption prevention will be nothing. I will then mention the Ministry of State Property which still does not have a register of state property that would be publicly available, transparent and that would have all the necessary data, and so would contracts or other acts on the basis of which the property is used as well as information on whether individual fees have been paid to the state budget. If I'm talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, and it has a real estate problem, because that's unlike any other state property that's in the portfolio of one ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture only cares about agricultural land. Agricultural land should be placed in this unique register to be cared for by the Ministry of State Property, and agriculture should deal with the profession itself. From the management system, the more we talked about today, the new Law on Cooperation and the new Law on Agricultural Land, when we talk about how this cookie is shared in the implementation sense, we gave a lot to the units of local self-government and their commissions and ad hoc bodies. That should be completely abolished. When we talk about these ad hoc bodies unfortunately there are them at the level of each ministry and that is what public administration reform should contain. I have sent a letter to all the ministries to show how many different committees, working groups, and what other professional bodies there are that have been added to this overall administrative apparatus, so there are dozens and dozens at each ministry level. Now that's what one key you're going to need to delete. and leave the system to professionals. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108745	Next is a debate on the name of the promoter of the respected Bojana Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my last intervention, I started a topic that I would like to pay a little more attention to, and that is the theme of those members and members of HDZ who are supporting pillars of this and such majority whose actual value is to support Andrej Plenkovic. There are several categories, and the example I'm going to choose is Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, who, with all due respect, would be a character in a series like Alo, or the already mentioned flying circus Monty Python would certainly be one of my favorite characters. I called him and his foreign ministry, ministers of forceful speeches, this and I have a good example for that. This is how Gordan Grlic Radman is simply the most absurd minister. On the fingers of one hand I can actually list situations when, when he had a surplus speech either on the Committee on Foreign Policy or on European Affairs, and especially here at the Assembly, the rest could be described as expression or in non sequiturs in any attempt, trying not to know the verse of alexandrin or, or a jam pentamentar knows what is shooting, but it doesn't work very well. For example, there was a press statement saying Vladimir Putim was a war criminal, which is one very bold statement such as one, one of the few situations where we heard him very clearly expressing an opinion, one of his own. But shortly afterwards it seems that he got by his fingers because on the repeated question about it, only a little did you just say that Vladimir Putin was a war criminal, that was the next morning, this was an evening interview of some sort, started to get away with knowing who was deciding who was a war criminal, yes, that he said something he said, and he actually said and didn't, of course he didn't explain. So, you listed my morning wuss. So that's one, one quite illustrative, I would say example that for people worth something that one sentiment that could be attributed to our colleague Arsen Bauk, I have an opinion, and if you don't like it, I can change it. Only here can it be said that Minister Radman is one of those HDZ people who sometimes have an opinion, and if what Plenkovic doesn't like, he can change it. In fact, in one more serious tone, however, the ownership of a foreign and European minister who is as we have described him may have felt the most strongly on the BiH example. So HDZ has passed a lot of things on the electoral law that has failed. He put a lot of trust in Dragan Covic, which we have talked about many times here, but what, this Dragan Covic is obviously insubordinate. Obviously, this HDZ and that Andrej Plenkovic and that Gordan Grlic Radman have no longer had the kind of influence they might like or what HDZ here once had on HDZ BiH, because that Covic is obviously more listening to the president of the Republic lately. He's going to consult him, not just for consulting at Andrej Plenkovic's. That's what we had a chance to see these days. That same Dodik, when that same, excuse me, is obviously this fredian slip that would be said, when this Covic goes to Dodik and says the things he said then HDZ is silent here. There, and this Covic just made it impossible to amend the election law because it was he who left the negotiating table, it was not done by someone else and it is true to you. So it is clear that HDZ no longer has any impact on the HDZ of BiH, and it continues to defend them in all their mistakes, which there is a great deal and in all their sabotages of BiH's stabilisation. So this key one HDZ policy here will not be corrected with a few general sentences in some EU documents as much as the minister and her boss would like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108747	Replica One, Honored Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I honestly tell you that very rarely I can understand in any standard Croatian language that actually the foreign minister wants to say what when I don't understand what he's talking about. And yours, your intervention was actually some kind of probably or actually trying not to offend any analysis or taste of his work. But now I'm going to ask you a question. What's he in for, I'll say with you... The minister left you with some sort of impression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the only thing that comes to mind is that a few days or a week before the Russian aggression on Ukraine, it called Putin to Zagreb. So much for that. I don't remember anything. Give me some of that stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108749	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108750	Thank you for the replica of counterpart Hajdash Doncic, that Minister Radman had several very, very serious mistakes in judgment I would say so. Because it seems to me to be allowed to carry him with emotion, so he allowed him and Sergei Lavrev to bear emotions about poetry that apparently both of them have a passion in which there's absolutely nothing wrong with him, but in such a situation, he would still need a triage of controversies and a situation at all, and this was obviously a very, very, very guilty triage. And there's this situation, and also later with Vladimir Putin being called a war criminal. It made an impression on me because, therefore, Vladim Putin is a war criminal, if the minister can't say it clearly, I can say it, I have no problem with it and he did something that was a good thing and then he pulled it. That's what he'll be remembered for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108751	The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108752	Thank you. A fellow Glavasevic sentence you mentioned in context with me, I don't know who the author is, but Groucho Marx used to pronounce it so it's one funny sentence but you used it in a good context. So, as far as the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs is concerned when he speaks English, it's kind of like a passing grade, when he speaks German, it's like that somewhere in the rectory, but when he talks Croatian, it's exactly what I look at it like that. As for this relationship with the Croats in BiH, counterpart Bencic quoted a song from the chorus, and I will start with "You're easy because you have me, and what I got for it", hence the relationship of the Croats in BiH to HDZ, ha "I'm opening my eyes today after all these years".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108753	Thank you, colleague Bauk, above all, for helping me find the authorship of this sensation that I first heard from you and remained so likable and in my memory. But a joke aside and completely serious, the biggest victims of not only the government's inability to ensure a quality relationship not only between Croatia and BiH, not only Croatia towards Croats in BiH, but also to be the kind of help in empowering Croats in BiH will be Croats in BiH, and this is tragic because they have left them to ordinary thieves, liars and haters. That's what's most fake of all, but there's a cure for it again in some to future governments. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108754	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The sixth I was registered in an individual debate, here's seven and a half of it, half eight of the first HDZ could come to order today in this debate. ... I didn't give up asking Mr. Bauk where I was, ask Mr. Bauk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108756	Please don't communicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108757	...but I'm asking you not to interrupt me, I didn't give up, I'd be happy to speak for the club but I was with my colleague, Bauk, on another engagement. But irrelevantly, it doesn't matter what fellow Habib talked great, so I'm not sorry, he spoke better than I would. The debate over the past 10 hours, 12 hours almost showed how much frustration in the lines of opposition, how much bile you are, how bitter you are towards your colleagues and colleagues here today have spilled you almost and sorry for me, and I feel almost sorry for you, that you can't control yourself, but in this game that lasts all day in the ugliest way you're talking about people who don't want to disband the parliament because they have a responsibility to the voters who chose them. I don't know how you think the council can disband itself, with an insufficient number of hands, that's not clear to me. How do you think the council can disband if the ruling majority doesn't want to and has no intention? And she told you that she was solid and stable eight days ago when we had control of the power and stability of the ruling majority. You remind me of a jumper who can jump to a maximum of 170 cm, can't do more, can't, can't, and then picks up a flyer at 230 cm trying to jump, clearly so poor and powerless he can't, then it's his fault that he can't get to that height and he can't get to 230 cm without a problem and he's guilty, so his opponent is guilty that he can't get to that height. That's right with you, you have as many hands as you have, you can't, and you won't have more than you have, and there's no way that that decision you've proposed will be realized. I find it funny how some reform from 2017 was bad, how worse it was from 2018, and I would remind you that after those towards you poor, and we had good reforms where we were checking out, where we were being examined, measured on the political market by our voters, and they told us no, they were good reforms and so we give you the vote again, so we give you the votes to run Croatia again, that was 2020. So then came another election of local elections in Croatia, so we re-moved the opposition in 20 counties, we won 15 of them, we won half the cities and municipalities, so when elected, when decided, when measured on the political market, it's always the result that HDZ wins, and you gentlemen are the opposition, unfortunately for you, but that's how it is. In order for you to rule you have shown in Split, you have been given the responsibility to run Split, for nine months because of your own market, for ignorance, for incompetence however you wish, there are extraordinary elections ahead of Split. It is not clear to me what you did in Zagreb, what you did in Zagreb, that, then by taking this logic that you are showing us here today after this speaker, you would not go to the extraordinary elections in the City of Zagreb, I have not heard such a debate in the Zagreb Assembly. What are the results of Zagreb City's new authorities that would actually give you after a debate like this today that no extraordinary elections are held in Zagreb, for what? I don't see what the difference between the state you're showing is that you're trying to show in the assembly, that they're better in Zagreb so that there wouldn't be.../incomprehensible/... going to elections, therefore, I'll end up with one song, in vain effort, the players. The election will be when HDZ decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108758	Time. We have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108759	Art. 238, Mr. Bačić, do not insult our common sense, first I will tell you that when you mention Zagreb, 9 months versus your 6 years, I will tell you this, you know what the difference is and why there is no extraordinary choice in Zagreb and why no one calls them? Because ministers or city heads don't drive in a march to Remetinec, but you know what else? [[I don't know.]] Some of them drive away, but those are yours, those were your remains. And you know what else? The thefts have stopped. And you know what else? The liquidity has returned which you left at zero [[Intruder: Time.]] You know what else? [[Intruder: Time.]] There's no more time... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108760	Time. This was your replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. That's your third warning. You're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. Nikola Mazhar, the next breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108761	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague named Bencic has been injured by an article. 238. Not only does it disdain us who are present and citizens, so the City of Zagreb does not have the heads or ministers who drive to Remetinec, but it does not have them at all. So what they've done so far, ever since they took over Zagreb, they've made sure they didn't choose the leaders and they're just looking for the government of the Republic of Croatia to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108762	And you get a warning. He's got another proposer. Next replica, esteemed Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108763	So, dear colleague Bačić, I must say that I am really impressed that you, at your age and in your lack of internship, have not yet developed any other style of discussion but that ad-hominically attack your associates. So you didn't give a single argument about what we asked you, not for the restoration, not for Berosh, not for Paladin, not for the ministers who took you away, you just said what we were like. And you haven't supported it with anything that we see, I mean, there are those who have an even worse style than you, say, colleague Deur, who thinks it's a good style of discussion to play music, which is what your chairmans allow him to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108764	Excuse me. Comrade Deur, I have an observation that you're playing music again, please refrain from it, I'm going to have to kick you out. Answer, Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kekin, where were you during my presentation, were you in the assembly? - Is it Mrs. Crescent? Kekin was in the assembly? Who did I personally tell? Who did I personally mention in my speech? Yeah, give me one name. Who? ... Whom I mentioned ad-hominem, name one for me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not ad homeim, dear Mrs. Kekin... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Please don't argue from the bench, Mr. Bačić.]] No, no, I was talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] about the opposition parties, I was saying, I've polluted with your views and I've said that since 2016 elections have been held in which we measured the success of the government and the ruling majority... [[Intruder: Please.]] and that we have won with the highest number of political parties won since this system is in Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The highest number. 66 terms of office, do you understand? 66 mandates and then I said that after that were local elections where we once again confirmed the force And you don't have to be angry, it's you, it's facts. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108766	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108767	... So an injury. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. [[Specially enabled.]] Please stop boasting about how many votes you won because even the Constitutional Court has told you that your election units are set so that you get the easiest elections. And by the way, we heard from your master tailor that he did it because that's how he got it from the HDZ, which I guess you were in then, too, ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108768	This was your replica, you get a warning and please don't argue from the bench because I'm going to have to give you a second warning. ... Please, I warned them, I warned them, I warn you too. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, next, please, colleagues, don't argue from the bench. ... [[Intruder: I ordered one song from my colleague, Deura.]] Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, I'll start giving you warnings. William Matula, honourable representative, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108769	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, this high jump picture of you, you really believe that in that sense it's a metaphor, does HDZ jump world records that are 2.30 and so, men's records, do you really think with your political achievements you're jumping world records? After all the information that's been delivered here with the horror? You really believe that the new Minister of Paladin, that he'll skip 2.30? That after you and Minister Horvat stopped, you stopped the renovation and that he would do it now and you really believe he wouldn't go to Remetinec and you won't miss it again with a smile?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108770	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matul, I appreciate you as an actor, but you're not educated enough in sports. The world record is 14cm above what I said, so I didn't raise the HDZ line, and I could and still, that would be our score. I did, but you know what I did wrong? I gave you a lot when I said 170. You see, I've given you a lot, and it shows you in the end, it shows you, colleague Matula, the fact that we keep asking ourselves in public what political ratings political parties are like. You won the election of the citizens of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb. It was a great opportunity for you to show up, ever since, in 10 months, I think you've fallen about 7.8%, percentage points, and in the City of Zagreb even more, even more. Here, that's, say, one score of accomplishments we can do!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108772	Time. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108773	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, here, I am pleased to say first that we are finally talking about the subject, that in your discussion you were talking about the topic after hours and hours of groundless debates that we are hearing here. Secondly, you've accurately detected that today, in fact, in HS, we have one play by the opposition and that may have been the first few hours of fun, I have to notice that it's getting less fun and running out of obvious inspiration already slowly. Third, I feel like we're living in parallel to everything. So now the left hand side tells us that we're going after someone, ad-hominem, so all day long here are the people who aren't present, who can't defend themselves, while not respecting the fundamental principle that at least some of us should know is sitting here, who are lawyers, and that's the principle of presummation of innocence. So you don't respect that at all. And fourthly, here, for example, we are told about foreign policy by someone who can't name the directors in the City of Zagreb, about social rights is told by someone who abolishes these measures in the City of Zagreb. The EU funds are being told by someone who can't do a single project in charge of the City of Zagreb. So how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108774	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108775	Thank you. Art. 238 and that deviation from the usual, acceptable behavior in the assembly, colleague Deur, you're talking on your cell phone. Go outside and act like you're supposed to be around here. Well, this isn't your meeting room. This isn't your conference room. You have a responsibility to Croatian voters and a minimum of decency to show. And you choose to give him a warning! Or get off that chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108776	You're getting a warning. You're getting a warning. Replication response. Yeah, so do you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. 238, this is indeed an insult to the parliamentary representative. I think it's really unworthy to stay here, so I'm asking you to do something, this was really scary. Screaming and threatening someone, it's beneath every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108778	I don't know if you heard, my colleague got a warning, and now you have to get a warning because I warned her and she got a warning about it. A reminder to you, too. Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Habib, I fully agree with your grades and your views. I think that the opposition is best to remain in opposition, I think that the City of Zagreb is too much of a bite, it is seen from day to day and we will see how the situation will be in the City of Zagreb in a month. What we can see so far is that nothing has been done. In a year, nothing was done in the City of Zagreb because if something had been done, I would have heard from the Green-Left Block Club in the assembly. In addition to attacking the ruling government in HS, I have not heard a single project that has been realised, not one, not one policy that has been implemented, however, is still the only excuse we have found a catastrophic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108780	Next replica, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108781	Dear colleague Bacic. I want to thank you for getting into the debate. It is, many are uncomfortable because, especially the individual debate, like yours, means you get replicas, and then you talk, and so I just wanted to commend you for the courage that you decided to engage in it. I wish your colleagues and colleagues from the club had also had individual debates because, ultimately, the point of parliamentaryism is in dialogue even when, as Prime Minister Plenkovic rarely says, it has one such little charf tone in political discourse. So, I don't have a problem with either hearing or saying something in that tone, so, uh, nothing, I'm a little sorry, I say, your colleagues and colleagues sitting here most of the time, and they didn't say much, so, here, thank you again for what you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108782	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108783	Thank you, dear Vice President. He's been injured. 238, indent 5, deviation from normal behaviour in HS. My colleague Glavasevic mentioned it several times today, I would say that is actually a very short answer. I think it's a lot more important quality than quantity, and I think we proved it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108784	And you get a warning, this is a third warning, you lose your word until the end of this debate. Replicate response, Agent Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108785	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Glavasevic, if you were normally in the usual today, as the promoters are doing this debate, there would be a lot of individual debates from the HDZ. Very much so. You deliberately, which you have a business right to, you obstructed this debate and after each club and after each individual debate appeared twice and thus more, we understood your message, we understood what you wanted and the response of the HDZ was that no one would answer individually. And I'd be giving up the debate, and I wouldn't have answered the individual's call if I hadn't had to give up my debate on behalf of the club, and I applied neatly, counting that we'd have a normal debate in the Parliament today, and that's why I'm here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108786	Next replica, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108787	Dear Bačić, today we talk about disbanding the assembly, we listen all day long to attacks without arguments, stories that do not hold water, and which we have proved to them countless times that they do not hold water. In doing so, they don’t even read the law as it fits, so let’s say today we could hear a lot of words about medical secrets. I'd just read the exact definition of a doctor's secret. Medical secrecy is a professional secret that includes information about the personal and family life of the patient that the doctor learned about when performing his profession. So, all of this unkind event is actually learned from the media that the patient gave it to. So you need to define the exact, well-known law and know exactly what the word is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108788	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108789	I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Grba Bujević. It is difficult here in the assembly to comment on an extremely difficult situation in the Cavidi family and break our political recommendations on the Law on Interrupt Pregnancy. So to keep me here in any comment, I would leave a decision to those who are in charge of this law, and we will have time next week very well, and certainly enough to discuss this law that we will discuss next week on Thursday afternoon, and then I will make my views known. And now at this point when we know that, that this controversy is about a particular person and her health problem, I don't think it's worth talking about here at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108790	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108791	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Bačić, in the most challenging global times when the government of the Republic of Croatia is saving 800,000 jobs in the process of energy crisis and inflation, helps citizens and the most vulnerable groups with a package of 5 billion kuna measures, we have a parallel to today's opposition, which in the event of a football gleaning in the already lost match, does not run with 11 players because it is missing and shows that it is only successful in pushing auto goals, and just as counterpart Matula mentioned and breaking world records because today the leaders of the opposition have shown that they will break the record of how many of their political parties will be and remain in opposition, and that will be their legacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108792	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108793	Thank you. Our fellow Mazhar, today, we did not speak because we had virtually no opportunity except through a replica and possibly a breach of the Rules of Procedure to talk about what should be a measure when discussing extraordinary elections because after such a decision was taken, the following extraordinary elections were taken. Extraordinary elections are the result of incompetence, unhappiness, the government's loss of trust by the parties supporting it. In this case, the government is successful, the government implements its programme, the growth data of the economy, the growth of wages, the growth of minimum wages, average wages, pensions, etc., etc. So the ruling majority is stable, there's no reason, and that's why we said that this debate is pointless because there's not one reason that can lead to the disbanding of parliaments or extraordinary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108794	The next replica honours Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108795	Thank you. Your colleague Bačić knows the difference in Zagreb... in Zagreb, no people with bags walk for the last 10 months [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't hear? [[I didn't hear.]] I'm saying Zagreb's been out of people with bags for the past 10 months. [[Intruder: No.]] You know what else is different? You were talking about incompetence and unhappiness. Renovate. In Zagreb everything the City of Zagreb could do was done. And you know what the state did, that government of yours and that compact majority of yours? Zero. Zero house in Bani. Zero house. In Zagreb zero, zero colleagues to Bačić that is the difference over the past 10 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108796	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're nervous about something Mrs. Raukar Gamulin and you're not, you're nervous, if with yours, if your manner and dictionary were to answer, then you might be told that they may have been bit by the money in some past times by those who manage Zagreb today. So this is what your performance says first of all about you because in the absence of arguments you are trying to insult your companion. That's your attitude, it's not your honor, but that's what we can deal with without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108798	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108799	Paragraph 23, Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, counterpart Bacic insists that insulting is something that is a fact. It is not an insult that zero houses have been renovated in Banija and the City of Zagreb, but it is a fact for you. It's just a fact. It's called stupid as a fact, that's what Hegel said. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108800	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. On behalf of the promoter, respected Ivan Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108801	Thank you. Here, I was very inspired, I didn't mean to admit it anymore, but my colleague Bacic was very inspiring. So we're going to start by telling us that we're bitter, that we're emotional, that was the Habian, that we're inadequately temperamental, upset, etc., so we are. Well, you kidnapped our country. And not only us, but 70% of the citizens of this country that you are calling on to say that this country is going in the wrong direction. You kidnapped our country. She's been kidnapped by people like your colleague, who I'm not sure is intoxicated or what's wrong with letting Thompson go while other people are talking in HS. And then we'll talk about the ratings and how we dropped our ratings. I mean, when you go into major reforms, when you want to make a change in the system, yes, and especially in the system that you've concreteized, like you did. Yeah. It's hard and takes time and it's not easy and the results aren't seen immediately and the ratings and the fall, but you work for public benefit because, you know? Me and Bencicka didn't come into politics to get ratings. We came here to make it better after us. That my kids would have something better. Not for me to have a rating. But since the ratings are important to you, then I'll ask you. How's your rating on Korcula, it's your island, isn't it? HDZ Free Island, I'm proud to harden. How are you standing there with the ratings and why isn't your ratings there good? Because even more than the ratings, you love other particular interests, and then you impose on the citizens of Korcula projects that satisfy the building click, which is only damage. So you put in financial plans money that doesn't exist, so directly what you're cheating on is council members of the county assembly. We've heard, we've just seen people from Ilovik, that there's actually some very similar companies that are building on Dubrovnik and Korčula, cities, we should build on Ilovik where we also have a project similar to that that damages, which literally threatens the people of that island, but it has to be done because it's 80 million. Now, that's the development you see. Is that right, the development that brings ratings and particular interests? And then we'll talk about Zagreb. So what did we do in, what do you say we call you and what we did in Zagreb, right? So as far as you're concerned, you're on the authority of the minority as far as I'm concerned, more than half of my life. And I'll tell you what we did in 10 months in Zagreb. So we consolidated the Zagreb budget. You left us unpaid debts to suppliers for more than nine months. That's settled. .../incomprehensible/... We're on our way to restructure the Holding that's one of the biggest companies there is. We've rescheduled the city's administration that there are no more millions of ministries, but that it's reasonable size. We returned to Zagreb those who ran away with their heads regardless of how much IBRD,.../incomprehensible/... to a solidarity fund, where you have reported a year and how many of the earthquakes have reported only 400 million, we have raised in 6 months to 2 billion. This year we start building 4 kindergartens, we start with 8 kindergartens next year. So we started a waste management reform. We built and prepared projects for the NPOO, for the sorting plant, for the biocompost. We broke up the harmful contracts that you and Milan Bandic made, and the Zagrebs paid, like the one about who handels bulky waste. 40 million kuna, now Zagreb has it itself, 40 million kuna its citizens have in the budget. We started working on the stadium, stopped the sale of city flats. The people you held for a year and a half after the earthquake in Arena, we ended up in city apartments. That's what we do. So we can keep going. We can talk about the fact that we finally opened the pedestrian bridge, that we opened and finished the work on the Homeland Bridge, we can talk about the project Sunroofs where 1/3 of all solarians will be, because, on this project that's already opened, it's realized. That's what we did in 10 months. What have you done in these, how many decades have you been in power in Croatia? You didn't make it because you were carrying bags. We don't carry bags, we wear backpacks, and we're doing fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108802	Replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kekin, I've been in politics for 32 years. ... Yeah, 32 years on Korčula, my list hasn't lost what I've been on, ever. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Never. We'll see you in a few years in Zagreb, you and your list will disappear, not because someone doesn't love you, but because you don't know, and because you're incompetent. That's the reason. And when you mention mine, what I did, I'm proud of it, ma'am. Kekin. That's what I'm proud of. Everything I've done in my life, I've done in accordance with law and morale, and do you mind? And there's nothing else you can do but attack, I said that a little while ago. Intellectuals, you know, what you think they are, is in the habit of that in the debate they take arguments and do not go ad hominem [[Intruder: Time.]] And you're in short supply. [[Intruder: Time.]] in the absence of this [[I think your time is over, Mr. Bacic.]] You're going home, which means you're just an intellectual. [[/Intruder: Answer. Answer.]] [[/Intruder: Is the time over? 15 seconds ago?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108804	Time. It's off. It was an important topic. [[I mean, don't be angry with the vice president.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108805	Very, uh-huh. I hope you will, too. [[Intruder: I've allowed you.]] So, colleague Bacic. [[I've allowed you to do the same.]] Where to go, so when they call me inappropriate, and that's often heard from your ranks, how they once told me that one of your colleagues was Bedekovic that this temperament, that it was not appropriate for my education or, I guess, sex. Then I know I got you in the wind. I've listed to you what we've done and also what you haven't. And you told me I was incompetent and I was going to fail. Well, all right, live and seen. So, let me just say, otherwise, generally, when there are no arguments, then you go ad hominem, but to you from HDZ circles it happens too often. I've listed your projects that have been reported to OLAF, I didn't say you were incompetent, I've listed your projects that have been reported to OLAF, and you can still be proud of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108806	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Tell me, what kind of project is illegal? What kind of project is illegal? And here's what you're saying. You tell me about Korčula, so you don't know where Korčula is, you don't know where Korčula is. [[Intruder: You should have asked me that in the replica.]] The fact that someone is supplying you with the wrong information, so here you turn out to be saying it first and foremost about you and those who are telling you that kind of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108808	This was a replica, you get a warning. Next up, Nikola Mazhar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108809	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Kekin and I are also emotional in my actions sometimes good as I come from Vukovar and we have the childhood I had, so I always try to be a lawyer and still be a man, so in a way, don't be ashamed of my emotions. Therefore, I have also answered here for the last line to you because it is difficult to say zero things restored, nothing is done, and on the other hand boasts with 4 kindergartens in the City of Zagreb. 4 kindergartens in the City of Zagreb that have 15 billion kuna budgets, and the government of the Republic of Croatia with a billion and 220 million kuna will provide 22,500 children. Yesterday it was signed for 2,573 houses contract at 910 houses is done, and 2,354 houses are renovated. The first day I was in Petrinja at headquarters, and I'd be glad to have you with me. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108810	Okay, thank you, I think I can see that you're emotional and that your emotions obviously clouded the raid a little. So I listed 4 new kindergartens that will leave by the end of this year to compare with what you did while you were with Milan Bandic in power. So, at that time, you haven't started building any kindergartens in Zagreb for many years, literally not a single colleague, Mažar. So now you're making fun of me because we're going to be four this year, and the next 8 is at least inadequate, but I'm going to forgive you because you're very emotional. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108811	Following is an individual debate between the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108812	Thank you. So it's just phenomenal. HDZ confessed, but denied responsibility. So, I quote Andrej Plenkovic for some past events. And then what's going on and what's really going on? The fact that, for the first or second time in history, the current minister ended up in prison, for you in the oven and Mr. Sanader, I speak immediately with a dialect. It didn't happen, it may have happened at the time of Herak, and that was a long, long, long time ago. And of course, it is the role of opposition parties in each parliament to question, to seek changes and to point to shortcomings and mistakes. So, I can tell you no personally, Mr. Bacic, but you're the club president, you're like the HDZ Teflon to me, really like the Teflon, everything's being rejected by you. You only know what Teflon is when it's damaged knows it's poisoned, it's poisoned for Croatian citizens and it's poisoned for Croatian citizens. And now I'm going back to the key thing. I don't give a shit about GDP, and I don't give a shit about GDP growth. You know what I'm curious about, you have an index from Eurostat called overall life satisfaction, meaning freedom of the media, corruption, transparency. Do you know where Croatia stands by that index? That's your 2021 last piece of information with Bulgaria. What does that say about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, about all of us? That people are unhappy. That they are unhappy with management, that they are unhappy with corruption, that the main problems in society are now inflation, employment or unemployment, demographics. And boast, your right because you're ruling some innovative things that don't exist. So, most of the funds or money to be clear, thank God it came from the EU, so just the transmission, but you managed to blow that up too. You blew it, too. Look at the open investigation of OLAF, look at how much it is actually potential penalties, how many potential adjustments that can happen, and then you all go back to the story again, my colleague Kekin was even right, you come back, you come back to the story of big infrastructure projects that, with economic terminology, call those cathedrals in the desert, God and ask who in life will help. Some may, some may not. So I'm trying to get back to that core business opposition. Of course we're going to point out, we're going to point out every mistake you make, every step of yours. It is our duty and obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108813	Next is the individual debate of the respected Urshe Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108814	A few days ago on a philosophical theatre programme at the HNK in Zagreb, he was announced as guest Mohammed Ould Slahi a man who illegally spent in the infamous Guantanamo prison for 14 years on suspicion and charges of involvement in the organization of a terrorist attack on New York famous 9.11. I'm sorry, sir, in 2010, the judge of the U.S. federal court ordered his release, his release from prison only in 2016, no guilt was proved to him, he was incarcerated innocent 14 years. in terrible conditions, exposed to tortures, abuses, mistreatments for 14 years, he wrote a book of those 14 years. who became the world's bestseller. But Mohamed Ould Slahi will not be a guest of the HNK philosophical theatre this week because the Croatian state has declared him a security risk, and has made it impossible to enter the country. Why is an innocently closed, tortured and abused writer working with renowned theatres in the world a security risk to the Republic of Croatia? Only the MUP and Bozinović know that. As apparently the security risk was also small Madina and her family, the European Court of Human Rights said. Like the security risk and migrants that Croatian police are beating and harassing at Croatian borders, but you can see interestingly there is no security risk when Ustasha symbols and Ustasha greetings are allowed. Plenkovic's famous commission has performed fantastic... The solution, Ustasha greetings and symbols are forbidden, but they are allowed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we had to welcome that the Austrian state banned the Ustasha party in Bleiburg because the Croatian state, because the Croatian state government had neither the courage nor the determination to deal with the Ustasha party for its petty political reasons and some obscenity votes in the elections, and so we welcomed the Croatian government's envoy to declare that there was no 10 April '41. there would be no Croatia. The prime minister has fenced himself that, but this man has not lost an act, he has not received any sanctions, and so our government has this fantastic double hypocrite, one European, civilized, anti-fascist, and for the internal use of flirting with the constitution and by denying victory in World War II. There is no power or will to be clearly determined according to the civilization's achievements towards anti-fascism, and the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia continues to be coquetery and permission of both Ustasha symbols and Ustasha greetings to the shame of all of us and our country and we consider it one of the reasons why this government must go and this assembly should be, this assembly should be disbanded and should go to new elections. Can I continue this other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108815	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108816	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108817	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Raukar Gamulin has been injured by an article. 238. Rules of Procedure, I don't understand that you didn't warn her. A colleague of Raukar Gamulin called the Croatian Bishop's Conference a Ustasha party, under the auspices of the assembly. This is very much said by my colleague Raukar about you, it is obvious to you communist ideology to this dimension within you that you are such one of the greatest, greatest tragedy in the history of the Croatian people, which you call the Ustasha party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108819	And that was your replica to Mrs. Devereaux. Gamulin and you get a warning. That's your third warning. You're losing your right. Next is the debate, final debate, final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108820	Thank you. On the contrary, the ruling party and the government are mixing these two things and allowing one memorial to turn into a Ustasha party, if it hadn't happened, why would the Austrian state forbid it, why? The Austrian state banned it and it is your shame to allow the ceremony in the presence of the bishop to become a Ustasha party banned by the Austrian state. But to sum up maybe this day is somehow, so a lot has been said, there are thousands of reasons, the reforms you're always talking about are simply gone, there's no educational reform, there's no health reform, there's no health care in debt, there's lots of problems, we're not touching the epidemic situation at all, and there's no reform of housing policy that's crucial for young people, especially for those we want to keep in such a number of ways that your policies have driven out of this country, which is a demographic problem for which you're responsible, the ruling majority and the ruling party and the government and the ruling majority and ruling parties. Have you made a sufficient number of kindergartens, have you made a sufficient number of homes for older and powerless, whether you were congenital and credible in 2016 when you wrote in your pre-election program a parent measure that you never applied, never at the state level and now hypocritically you have something to say about Zagreb. What did you do with taxes and tax reform? Nothing, this is still a country and a country ideal for rich people and too hungry for normal earners, not to mention that huge number that lives out of several thousand kunas a month. You allow there to be such differences in this country that we are getting closer and closer to South America. You have not shown the slightest, least willing to change the tax system so that at least a little equal and there is justice, that those who have more money in the state budget more, you do not have a shred of social sensitivity. You have brought a reform of the social system against both users, both the profession and the academic community, contrary to what you have nominally and declared advocating, which is decentralisation, you have centralized the entire system again. These are your reforms. Refurbishment, it's really unnecessary to talk about, all those two years. In which you failed to do anything and yet bring in a man who certainly won't do anything because he can't, he has to deal with it, he has a terrible problem, he really has to get out somehow so he doesn't end up in Remetic where he'll definitely end up because those evidence that came out in the Index investigation is irrefutable. This country is tired of it and these citizens are tired of it and all of this and much more is absolutely a reason for this assembly to be disbanded, the basic political decency requires that new elections be made. In any civilized country in Europe, that would have happened a long time ago. Here, thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108821	On behalf of the promoter, Dalya Oreshković is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108822	Comrade Bačić, I even respect that you are a faithful soldier of your party, whatever I think of your party, and I am glad that you have not given up an individual debate because through what you have spoken knowingly or unconsciously you have admitted that we are the opposition advocates that you so often like to call weak, that we are none, you have admitted that we have outplayed you in this debate and using your business rules that President Reiner tried to abuse them as you abuse them as you do, even now. Using this alternating right to appear on behalf of the club, we have forced you to listen to, indeed, 19 hours without the possibility of your interventions, everything that the citizens would like to say to you, not these 16.4 of your voters with how you hold us hostage to your corrupt policies rather than all those others, and others, you humiliate us when you humiliate us and our opposition MPs because based on their votes, we are acting on our representative duties. During today's day, the whole point of my speeches was to the humiliated role of HS, to the humiliated dignity and dignity of the most important state body, and he was humiliated because you kept your chairs, because you were not able and able and brave to perform your basic constitutional role, which is to control power and government. And when nothing else helped because you're constantly drilling into that your parliamentary majority is safe and stable then that humiliation became trivial, and as it became trivial, because of you, Mr. Deur, because of your release of Thompson from the constituency benches, because you spoke on the phone while other MPs spoke from this pay phone. And what does the Rules of Procedure say about that? Art. The 238th infringement of the Rules of Procedure, because the representative must not, in the course of the debate, interfere with his incursions or otherwise with the speaker, should not, and should not, by his conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the assembly. When I broke the Rules of Procedure and these provisions were called by the chairman who sat behind me, he gave me a warning, not to you, so you know what? That warning that can't stop me from doing anything like a medal of honor anyway. You know what? Our citizens were disgusted by these pointless debates, they were really disgusted, they were disgusted by these violations of the Rules of Procedure, but I am glad that today this happened because President Sanader did not show behind me that the chairman of HS, he showed that he was a common bully in power and constantly fueled that fire in the citizens and strengthened their desire to make you the first possible during your shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108823	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored counterpart of Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108824	Thank you. So, there's no point in taking this time on behalf of the promoter because everything we thought we said, now I'll say in the name of the club, so we think that this assembly should be dissolved, that it should hold early elections because this number of affairs that the government of the Republic of Croatia suggests that the situation for Croatian citizens can't be better, with this government can only be worse, and besides, the ministers who are the new choice of Andrej Plenkovic, who before they came to office, have become in trouble with proving their property and very likely they will also have to leave, and now we've removed these three and after the request of Mosta, we didn't have a wider reconstruction, but soon you'll get new requests for the impeachment of the Minister or the government themselves or the disbanding of the assembly, so here's the fact that our point today, it would be better if we had the opposition to have a point in the daily order to clean it and to do so. I'm just going to briefly touch one important reason why this government should leave, and that's a renewal. Do you know how fast reconstruction works the HDZ way? So in the last month and a half, 40% of the red objects have gone green and there's only refurbishing in Banovina overnight, so the objects that had the red sticker overnight green and there's no need for restoration anymore. So the citizens who waited a year for the removal of the facilities after they had removed them got from the rest of the ministry that on their home, on their facility there was a green sticker and it really had to be congratulated on the rapid renewal, you accelerated the processes on Banovina. Did you know Mr. Bačić that people in Banovina are paying abnormal wars and electricity bills and that we from the Bridge have been warning this since September that nothing has changed. HEP has just now reported that these debts will be written off, let the citizens come regardless of why the government has concluded that citizens with red and yellow stickers will be free of payments by 30.6.2022. they have been making an account since September, with the reason that consumption is such and that they do not see any mistakes in the system but simply have people to pay for it. Did you know that before the earthquake, people who lived in state houses as refugees after the war and for 20 years because they never wanted to give them a gift or the state never wanted to give them a gift or a ransom right to start handing out gifts to get rid of their property and not have an obligation to renew it, so you know how? They gave them gifts under the pretext of being able to rebuild their houses, when the citizens came to make a request for a renovation they unfortunately had no right because before the earthquake you weren't the owner of the property, meaning it's amazing what you're doing with the people of Banovina, how you behave, anyway what you're talking about, so our new representative Magdalena Komes, the mayor of Petrinja, you know what move she made, reintroduceduced the cut that was temporarily abolished in Petrinja, where the goal is to help people stay alive, to attract investment, reintroduce, so it's amazing, instead of taking advantage of taking advantage of this position that the government is investing money in the reconstruction of Petrinja, to help there because there's still sensitivity, no one will complain, no one from Dalmatia, or anyone from Slavonia, what Banovia is being restored and what she is doing, and your ruling. About the management of this team in Zagreb could agree, it might agree, but what you are doing, so it is not only incompetence but it is also eclutant corruption and concern for people, and what they will do in Zagreb, whether there will be corruption affairs as you will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108825	Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of the respected Dalia Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108826	In the final debate on behalf of the club as a weapon in a political struggle, I'll use it to bore you. The Rules of Procedure regulates the internal structure and mode of work of the HS and, despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure are passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs, therefore by the will of the ruling, the majority should not be abused in order to take away or reduce its constitutional essence. The reality of political life takes place beyond the constitution of the planned government's trio, and despite the constitution that MPs in HS do not have a binding mandate and vote personally on the fact that the usual president of the strongest parliamentary party performs and the role of the Prime Minister, and party discipline leads to a situation in which, through his parliamentary majority, the de facto subordinated to the will of the executive government is disabled and thus his constitutional role in controlling the government's work. Such a situation has a devastating impact on the democratic political and legal order and on the rule of law without a desire to distort the fundamental relationship between the position and the opposition or the right of position and the ruling to create and manage the country's provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to establish a better balance and enable the opposition to have greater influence in the control of authorities and to represent opposition positions. The essence of democracy is valid procedures. The provisions of the current Rules of Procedure shall not address key issues which affect the very core of the way in which HS and its key bodies are established. Due to the lack of clear procedural provisions of practice established during the constitution of earlier calls, it created a culture of political trade in which key places in the bodies of the Croatian Parliament are shared and determined in extra-institutional negotiations with the strongest political party, before the constitution and before the first meeting of the Croatian Parliament, so beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, according to these established political practices, and not on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately and when establishing this 10th term of the Croatian Parliament, the key positions and schedule of representatives in the working bodies were distributed on the basis of informal meetings and the calculation of those quotas belonging to a particular political party or independent representative on the basis of the number of mandates won. This turned the constitutive session into a protocol only confirming illegal agreements, in fact, the form of political trade between the opposition and the authorities. The lack of legitimacy for such an agreement stems from the fact that negotiations and meetings between different participants of the elections are not conducted in accordance with any prescribed procedure. The number and schedule of seats in the individual working body of the Croatian Parliament is distributed in accordance with the negotiating but lobbying skills of individual future representatives or representatives of their political parties, not on the basis of some selection and selection that would follow professional competence or personal political preference of the representatives. Such illegal political practices have become groundless provisions of the Rules of Procedure which provide for such a process of selecting representatives in individual working bodies. Keeping in mind that the Croatian Parliament conducts elections, appointments and resolutions in accordance with the Constitution and the law and some other bodies such established political practices and outside of institutional agreements, that is, trade policy between dominant political parties around candidates both in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and in other functions and public duties lead to dysfunctional and crumbs of democracy. The lagging behind in the construction of independent and efficient institutions has also become too much behind in economic development, and unfortunately it has had a negative impact on all other areas of social and cultural life as well as on the general decline in the standard of living of our citizens. If the Croatian Parliament wants to run positive shifts and reverse negative trends it must create conditions for changes, which means it has to come from itself. The current amendments to the Rules of Procedure play an important role, and this is our first task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108827	A final debate will follow with the name of the SDP Representatives Club of the Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the parliamentary majority's argument that it will not support our proposal out of responsibility to the citizens in the elections we heard. But just out of responsibility to the citizens in the elections they voted for us, we submitted this proposal. Why? The reason was also to remind ourselves of the opening of a criminal proceedings against three members of the government, and the conduct of criminal proceedings against several other lower-ranking members in the executive government. What is the task in such a situation of parliamentary opposition in any democratic parliament of any democratic country of the world with at least an average level of parliamentaryism and democracy, rather than initiating a procedure to call early elections, and according to our Constitution, a procedure that triggers early elections can be initiated by the government to resign or Parliament to disband itself or to vote for no confidence in the government. So, in the dilemma of the government's reconstruction, what would actually mean is an attempt to correct what we think is irreparable or the reconstruction of the parliament or the reconfiguration of the parliamentary majority, we have decided in the most democratic way to do what we have proposed today and very responsible and serious and systematicly participated in the debate, showing countless reasons why Croatia should go to elections. I'll look back on only two cases. It's the first case of restoration. Once the political practice textbooks in Croatia describe incompetence, then one reference will certainly be to the government of Andrej Plenkovic in the reconstruction after the earthquake in Zagreb and in Banovina or Banija in 2020. There's no better, clearer and more accurate definition of incompetence than what I just said. If there was nothing else, if there wasn't any of these arrests and this whole thing would be a very clear reason for that government to go away. Second COvid, covid crisis. Based on the results of the Croatian government's policy policy with Andrej Plenkovic, the Republic of Croatia is at the EU Summit by the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants and at the bottom or at the bottom of the European Union by the number of vaccines per 100,000 inhabitants. If there wasn't any of what I said, that would be a reason to discuss the election, and this government is gone. As far as other things in this government are concerned, it works in a way that you have a Prime Minister whose character and work is being kept in every way possible not to open sensitive topics that could disrupt his rating, the shift of ministers who are weighing the government in the hope of being forgotten as soon as possible, and that then we will wait for them to change some others. I think this government and this prime minister is a recordr in the number of his associates he mischosen. If that were the way Croatian voters chose football players, we would never have gone to any championship. When painting was to be painted in front of the hole with what fell, with the drone that fell to Zagreb were the first to panic over the alleged explosives were above the hole, and when it proved to be gone they hid in the hole figuratively. This parliament may continue until the end of the term of office, but the opposition will then continue until the end of the term of office, and after the end of the term, the government will be an opposition, and the opposition will be the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108829	Here's the final debate of the motionor, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108830	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The ruling majority today has through its main replicas and much less debate has shown a chronic misunderstanding of parliamentary democracy. The ruling majority today showed that it does not understand that the government in parliamentary democracy stems from parliament. And if the government is so fundamental, corrupt and bad, it doesn't work, and the ruling majority in this matter doesn't want to do anything, then the only solution is not to call off the government because then they wouldn't get anything but to disband that Parliament. And what the ruling majority doesn't want to do doesn't say anything about opposition, talks exclusively about the ruling majority who, at the cost of holding their positions and authorities, are willing to do anything, no matter how much it costs to the citizens and citizens of this country. I was also talking about the systemic problems that Croatia has and how the government does not solve. I'll only talk about some pictures, only some of the realities that the people of this country face every day, so let's start with the saddest. People who live in containers and who come with electric bills. And then there's this crazy, bizarre explanation of why it's normal and it's all going to go away, and the payments are still coming and no one's answering for it. The government that brings the Code of Conduct of State Officials today, but there are no sanctions for violating the Code. However, it is, in fact, exempt that officials are being treated by the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest and transferred to some kind of government couple body where, as someone has noticed today, Paladin will decide on Paladina. These are pictures of Croatian realities. So another absolutely bizarre one. Did you know that you cannot buy a train ticket abroad on the Croatian Railways website? You can't. Go to the website of the Croatian Railways, try to buy a ticket to any foreign destination to which Croatian railways are driving. No, no, he can't. If you click on the international timetable, you will be transferred to Deute Bahn. In 2022 on-line Croatian Railways you can't buy a ticket to abroad and nothing to anyone and it's for the government, for the Minister of Transport the most normal thing. And then play of the day, paradox of the day. If she'd spoken to me or the Ministry, we would've certainly speeded it up. This is what Minister Beros said today, and I will not speak at all about the circumstances in which he stated it. Because as Beros said today, he could say that to any other member of the government. And do you know what the message is and what the reality behind that message is? That institutions in this country don't do their jobs, that institutions don't exist and that a customer-related structure is created that actually wants institutions to fail. Because under these circumstances, you have to get to Beros, to Josepha Rimac or anyone else on that team and ask them to speed up the process. And my God, when they speed up the process, I guess there's some kind of reward for that acceleration. Willi Beroš and similar ones who today are willing to make such a statement regardless of the context in which she was declared, and the context is terrible in fact have turned our country into a society that functions according to the principle of halo bing as a brother. They turned themselves into public administration bodies, replaced the roles of a public service that should exist there and function to meet the needs of citizens and turned it into a machine. A political machine that grinds this country and this society, a political machine that's only there for itself, that wants to be there as we've heard today for hundreds of years. And those hundred years of loneliness will be used to constantly fill your pockets and ensure that in this society some live better, some live well and others who, by their own means, complete the sentence. And that's why it's not enough for one minister to leave, it's not enough for one member of the government, it's not enough for four of them to leave, it's not enough for the government to go as a whole. It is necessary to change the political paradigm and to change the direction towards this society, and with all due respect, it is possible only in elections where citizens and citizens of this country will choose not only a new team to be trusted, but also a new direction for Croatia. Those elections may not come now. We see, HDZ is firm, determined, we see, their coalition partners, some have called them satellites wisely silent until the moment they need to blow up their hand or press a button in their seats in the assembly and will reject this proposal. But it won't stop me or anyone on this left hand side of the assembly from trying to make any further suggestions. Sometimes it will be like this where we talk about failures in the functioning of government and government, sometimes it will be like that that we propose better solutions, as next week when we discuss the law on abortion or one day when we discuss a new way of calculating pensions in the Republic of Croatia. But they will be continued, they will be persistent, they will be permanent and will be there to show that a different Croatia is possible. Better Croatia. Croatia in which politics is there because of people, not people because of politics. One great statesman said in his time that it was time for people to wonder what they could do for their country, what they could do for America. Today is the time to wonder what we are as politics, but even more than what the state can do for its people. How to get back everything she got or took from them. With HDZ and its satellites, that's not possible, and that's why we need choices and will come. If not now, he'll come. The result on them will be clear. This direction that leads Croatia into self-destruct will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-06-0.u108831	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It continues, the session continues on Wednesday, May 11th, with a statement on the amendments. Here, good night, everybody. Session interrupted in 20.47 hours.
