ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99082	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, before we begin our work, I am merely reporting to you that tomorrow we will begin our session with a statement on the amendments, and after that, the point of the elections, appointments and resolutions, and then we will continue as we were announced. Today's first point: - Proposal for a Croatian hydrogen strategy until 2050. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 172. Rules of Procedure concerning Art. 11. The Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. On behalf of the promoter, the opening exhibition will be held by the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99083	Thank you, Mr. President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is a draft of a Croatian hydrogen strategy until 2050. The Republic of Croatia has been making significant efforts in decarbonising the energy sector and the economy in recent years. Accordingly, it encourages the development of renewable energy production, as well as an increase in energy efficiency in industry and households. Our goal is until 2030. At least 36.6% of electricity in gross direct consumption in the Republic of Croatia to be from renewable sources. But given the "Ready for 55" package, we are sure that this goal will increase further. The Republic of Croatia is still 2018. During the Austrian presidency, she signed an initiative for hydrogen and thus became one of the 28 countries that supported the use of hydrogen in carbonisation in Europe. Hydrogen becomes an important topic within the EU after that initiative. Hydrogen as a hydrogen-based energy and economy is an important part of the EU Member States' plans when we talk about green and energy transition with a view to meeting the EU's clean energy targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's why it's in July 2020. The European Commission presented two strategic documents, a hydrogen strategy for climate neutral Europe in which hydrogen is highlighted as one of the key levers for successful transition and a European strategy for the integration of energy systems. The European strategy, which is divided into 3 time frames 2020-'24, '25-'30. and behind 2030 puts emphasis on green hydrogen and the production of pure hydrogen from electrolysers using renewable energy, and this is just one of the colors of hydrogen that we have today with blue, turquoise, yellow, purple, gray and the like. This technology will undoubtedly be the main source of pure hydrogen in the Republic of Croatia, but since it is a strategic document covering the period until 2050. The Republic of Croatia puts it, has put emphasis in this strategy, i.e. in the proposal for this strategy primarily on renewable hydrogen. In this regard, we consider that renewable hydrogen is the one produced by technologies that do not emit CO2 or emit a small amount of CO2 by placing the emphasis primarily on the carbon footprint of such produced hydrogen, taking into account the sustainability of the entire process that is necessary for hydrogen production. This opens up the possibility of implementing new technologies that will produce hydrogen without CO2 emissions and with minor CO2 emissions, and especially when taking into account carbon footprints of the product as a whole. In this way, this definition also covers green hydrogen, but also extends the potential that will bring emphasis to the development of new technologies in the future. Also low-carbon hydrogen is considered pure energy, and will play an important role in several sectors as such. Investment in hydrogen-related clean technologies is expected to contribute to the transformation of the energy sector into a low sector and in the future of zero greenhouse gas emissions, the development of a circular economy, as well as the creation of new jobs related to energy sustainability. The following part of the Croatian economy has already shown interest in the development of hydrogen technologies, and a strategic document was needed to clearly show the direction of the development of hydrogen technologies in the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognized it, and it was in February 2021. At its 45th session, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development adopted a decision to launch the process of producing the Croatian hydrogen strategy. On the basis of that decision, the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development made a decision in March 2021. a decision to set up an expert working group to draw up a proposal for a Croatian hydrogen strategy. The president of the expert working group was himself a minister, and members of the Ministry of Economy, Transport and Infrastructure, Science and Education, Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding Zagreb, FESB Split, professional agencies such as Hrvoje Požar Institute, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, public and private economic operators and the Plinacro sector, HEP, INA, and the Croatian Association of Employers. The group prepared analytical bases based on the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, and the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. with a view to 2050 developed a draft document which was presented to the general public in February 2022. Based on numerous activities related to dialogue with all stakeholders, and the activities of the section, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared this proposal for a Croatian hydrogen strategy until 2050, and in this strategy, which highlighted the advantages of the Republic of Croatia in developing its hydrogen-based economy potential and fully consistent with the objectives of the EU strategy, as well as with the National Development Strategy. Since we do not yet have a hydrogen-based economy in the Republic of Croatia, investment in the development of all its segments is necessary at the same time. Accordingly, the strategy provides for 4 strategic directions for the development of a hydrogen-based economy, namely hydrogen production, storage and storage of hydrogen, hydrogen use and education, research, innovation. Furthermore, the Strategy provides a framework for the production and use of hydrogen with a focus on renewable hydrogen as a substitute for fossil fuels and an increase in the stability of the electricity system based on renewable energy sources, all for the purpose of energy self-sufficiency and transition to clean energy and sustainable mobility. This Strategy proposal also discusses how hydrogen potential can be used for investment, regulation, market creation and innovation research in hydrogen-based segments. Also taking into account the development needs and potentials of the Croatian economy in this proposal, the areas of intervention within the framework of the implementation mechanisms as well as the strategic objectives set, key indicators of impact and target values of indicators and the framework for monitoring and evaluation of the Strategy are described. The Strategy's framework will be the basis for expanding the integrated energy and climate plan, which will also become the Action Plan of this Strategy. An integrated energy climate plan called the NEC Republic of Croatia has made Croatia the basis of a regulation of the European Commission on energy governance and climate policies. The plan is a commitment of each member within the EU, and it sets out the goals Croatia plans to achieve by 2030 with regard to reducing CO2, increasing renewable energy use in final consumption and increasing energy efficiency. In addition, the plan also contains a series of measures aimed at achieving these objectives. Part of these measures already have the potential to use hydrogen, but in a major revision of the integrated energy climate plan, which follows us in the regular part of the 23rd year, a number of measures will be added that will come directly from this Strategy when this esteemed home is adopted. Given that the integrated energy climate plan is the basis for programming the use of EU funds, it is an ideal tool to dictate implementation of the Strategy. Especially since the Regulation plans to draw up plans for the next 10-year periods. Therefore, for the period from 2030 to 2040 and from 2041 to 2050, the implementation of the hydrogen strategy will be improved in the coming decades. The potential of hydrogen is particularly highlighted in the area of decarbonisation of transport under the National Policy Framework for the establishment of infrastructure from the development of alternative fuels in transport where the need for the establishment of hydrogen infrastructure is indicated. Therefore, the implementation level of the strategy is also planned through the integrated energy climate plan and through lower levels of plans. I must especially highlight here excellent inter-resorship cooperation with both the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Finance. They were all very actively involved in the creation of this document. It will also be the basis for the implementation of hydrogen in its resors and for strengthening activities related to the development of a hydrogen-based economy. In addition, we would like to point out that this Strategy highlights, in addition to all these, the need for cooperation with other countries with a view to establishing and strengthening a hydrogen-based economy. In particular, we would like to mention the valleys of hydrogen aimed at promoting the potential and potential of hydrogen technologies in order to attract additional investment in the regions and countries that have established the valley of hydrogen and to ensure a chain of values from production to hydrogen use. Attraction of investments at global level ensures visibility and visibility of certain regions regarding hydrogen technologies. The Republic of Croatia is involved in the North Adriatic valley project together with the Republic of Slovenia and the region of Northern Italy Fruli, Venice and Juliet and as such signed the first regional valley of hydrogen in Europe. The area valley aims to connect projects that form an integral part of the valley with potential partners in the Member States of the valley. In addition, the valley also plays an important role in ensuring the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Italy within the EU as well as their leading positions in front of the 13 youngest EU Member States that still do not have sufficient potential for the production and use of renewable hydrogen. The recently adopted Law on Renewable Sources and High Efficiency Cogeneration in its Article 58 provides for a programme that promotes transport sector activities in terms of the construction of alternative fuels infrastructure on highways, national and local roads and sea and river ports. The programme will be developed by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, with the consent of the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Tourism. This programme will also mean that after it is adopted by the Government, it is a good and quality basis for the development of the support programme and that the funds provided for in the National Recovery Plan amounting to 50 million in the Ministry of Economy's portfolio and 150 million in the ministry of transport, maritime and infrastructure portfolio will thus be directed towards the construction of alternative infrastructure primarily chargers for electricity, but will also include this part that is the subject of this Strategy. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the decarbonisation process in Croatia requires the establishment of a hydrogen-based economy. Therefore, this proposal of the Croatian Hydrogen Strategy by 2050 is an important strategic document which will contribute to the transition of the current economy of the Republic of Croatia to a green and advanced economy, and the opportunities stemming from a hydrogen-based economy will lay the foundation for the development of clean technologies and bring about new opportunities. At the same time, the achievement of these objectives will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions in line with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia as part of the European Union with a view to reducing the impact on global warming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99084	Thank you, too. Let's go with the replicas. We've got 23. The first one is a colleague of Ban Vlahek's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99085	Dear State Secretarys can be heard more and more often than ever, proposals for the re-use of existing hydrogen pipelines. It is mentioned that even in a similar way so far, domestic gas installations could be overloaded for the use of hydrogen. How is this going to happen when it is known that the metal materials of the pipeline and the gas installations are passable to hydrogen? Does the home gas installation so far make sense for hydrogen use premiums? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99086	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99087	Thank you for your replica. As for the possible involvement of hydrogen in the pipeline, technology says that this can be done up to 10%. The recent conclusions of the European Commission are in the direction that national transmission system operators must be organised in order to possibly require funding from such investment funds by '24. A year. Our Plinacro is already familiar with that, and that's what he's working on. The basic assumption for all of this is that hydrogen footprints can not be worked in one place but must be systematically inside, throughout the pipeline so that it is one significant procedure. The colleagues in the pipeline do so, and if they do so and do so hopefully it will be possible to finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99088	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99089	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State climate change and environmental destruction are a threat to the existence of Europe and the world. I am sure that we Croats, like other Europeans, consider climate change a serious problem. Therefore, all significant efforts made by the Republic of Croatia and based on the European Green Plan and all other initiatives in which we participate. That's what this hydrogen strategy is about. It's predicted through several stages. You said in the debate that there are already interests through economic operators. So my question is on to it. How far is the Republic of Croatia prepared for this first phase of the EU 2020-2020 strategy where the production of a million tonnes of restored hydrogen is targeted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99090	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99091	Thank you for your question, or your replica. The Republic of Croatia is ready. It is clear and demonstrated in its strategic documents such as the NPO and now the plan for the OPCK new financial perspective where we have predicted only in the head of our ministry about 160 million kuna. In the National Recovery Plan, we made a commitment to make 10 chargers over the next three years. And clearly we're going to finance a fixed number of electrolysers. So Croatia is ready, our colleges special school in Zagreb and Split are actively involved in all of this. There is an interest by the hydrogen association in Croatia in particular both by private companies and by public companies. So we think that after this strategy has been adopted and these plans and any action plans have been implemented that we will succeed in all that we have outlined.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99092	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99093	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of the 4 main pillars of this strategy that you state is the first of course to produce, it is now stated here that, for the establishment of more significant production of renewable hydrogen in the initial period, existing industrial plants can serve so-called. Brandford investments ahead of the shut-down or which have the potential to re-use and establish new technologies in their manufacturing processes, so I wonder if you can tell me which, which ones are these plants, where they are, how you plan to finance them, whether it belongs to the NPO or if you already have EU funds in mind, and in what period would that be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99094	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99095	We're like I said this now focused to launch certain projects. We have been developing projects in Zagreb for a long time to think about 60 buses switching to hydrogen to build a hydrogen charger in Zagreb and clearly according to that key and in the rest of Croatia. It will be our, our main focus now how to get into the situation that we have the production of hydrogen, that we have the chargers how that capex financed to make itself an opex or operating cost which will be largely easy to get to the holders of these chargers and so that the product itself, and that hydrogen was somewhat acceptable to these buses, and the cars that will be bought again from the financed funds so that the whole technology would actually go and live, and later things would go their way clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99096	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99097	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, hydrogen is often called the energy of the future. The hydrogen production technology is nothing new, it's famous but it's not commercially profitable. Without state subsidies, this currently does not hold water mainly in the green hydrogen segment, which you place an emphasis on in the strategy. Otherwise 98% of world hydrogen production is grey fossil fuel hydrogen and is mainly used in industry. In the strategy you put emphasis on traffic and on green hydrogen which is currently more expensive. And the EU says only in the second phase of 2030 will hydrogen be commercially profitable. So why did you choose this particular hodogram, first of all, traffic, and not industry like in the whole world? And why do you force again green hydrogen on which, without subsidies, there is currently no commercial cost-effectiveness or meaning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99099	So our commitment is to force green hydrogen and we think that Croatia with its potential in renewable sources that will be huge in the next period would be unwise in any direction but only in green hydrogen. We are aware of the start until technology is cheap, until all of this is brought into some kind of marketable frameworks that it will require a more generous incentive by the state, but let us remember the establishment of a renewable source in Europe at all, and so in Croatia, without the government's generous support at first, we would not consider today that solar wind power plants will practically need a premium model, and the question of whether or not a premium model will simply be cost-effective in itself because technology has come into such a situation that it is cost-effective. So hydrogen should go the same way. And traffic is something that is our absolute priority for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99100	Thank you. Comrade Cosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99101	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As you pointed out in your opening statement, this strategy is a full act of strategic planning and gives a vision of the development of a hydrogen-based economy. We understand that as soon as possible we need to turn to the production of our own energy because we are importing a good part of the energy and we need to increase the production of electricity from renewable sources, but Europe is encouraging us to produce renewable hydrogen. So I want to know how many Croatian owners, Croatian innovators, are ready, which are possible sources of funding for projects of production or construction of a green hydrogen plant for which I am certain interested individuals and cities and hear and islands, especially if waste would be used as a resource, and produced hydrogen could then be used to drive their utility vehicles, but also for other purposes?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99103	Thank you. As for the Croatian economy or stakeholders who are interested, there are plenty of them, we recently had one statement of public interest to get information about all companies that want to deal with hydrogen and who want to participate in this. Also, this list is a list that serves us to communicate with the commission, and everything in the food of our hydrogen valley project. We are aware of the fact that there are interested companies and even stakeholders in Croatia for this reason, so we will encourage them to take an additional interest, and we are also clearly aware that without the intentional incentive of the state and in a territorial sense and financially, because all the chargers and electrolysers should be easily distributed so as to ensure equal coverage of the Republic of Croatia for a start to do so later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99104	Comrade Dragonman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99105	I thank the president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. For new renewable sources in Croatia hydrogen is very important and hydrogen is one of the important elements of green transition or the future of economic development, energy sustainability and the reduction of the risk of climate change. This strategy is one of the important documents, I'd say the wheel stopper for economic development through clean hydrogen-based technologies. Can you tell if we already have some action plans in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99106	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99107	Thank you. As I said here, the action plan from this strategy will be directly detailed in the revision that goes by simply what we would say by law in '23. The National Climate Energy Plan, and I also mentioned this programme, which is not irrelevant in the Law on Renewable Sources, which will, in part, include a clear hydrogen that we will bring forward by the end of the year from which the support plan will follow to later in '23. and '24. but especially in '23. have gone with serious co-financing through the NPO and through other resources because simply without such action or reaction by the budget this strategy will simply not be able to implement otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99108	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99109	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I welcome this bill, but here is the reason for the Croatian public, however, to say some facts out loud here. So this proposal aims until 2030. 0.2% of total energy to be hydrogen 0.2% by 2030, just so we don't live in some illusion that we're about to have 10 or 20% of hydrogen energy. The second thing is, this plan predicts nearly 2 billion kuna investments to get to those 0.2% means during this period here is now not to go into details. I wonder if this has any economic justifications or is this whole story solely for decarbonisation that I welcome? How many kilograms of hydrogen, which is its equivalent, for example. how much the joule of energy gives, or the equivalent of oil, for example. or gas?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99111	Thanks for asking. As regards these data you have read, it is clear that they now need large funds to inauguration this technology at all and it is clear that it is quite expensive and that without the Commission or European funds and Croatian national resources there is no such thing. And we are aware that during this period we are nervous to use with the classical development of renewable sources that are now more cost-effective to develop this part. And as for the equivalent itself, let's say now the price of a kilo of hydrogen is here somewhere at 12-15 euros, if you can make 500 to 600 kilometers with a six-pound hydrogen tank, that's the equivalent, it's still expensive, but it's not too expensive because it comes to 15 euros just because someone financed Capex to make those chargers chargers in the good part. So that's where we have to strive for cheapness. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99112	Here you go, pal Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99113	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In our opening debate, you were talking about chargers, and there we talked a lot about when we discussed the Infrastructure Act for Alternative Fuels in Charges, so I'm interested in the hydrogen chargers what's planned for these tens, maybe it's left unclear until the end, thinks primarily of the gas stations that would use green hydrogen, or which would primarily use renewable energy sources and more or less on the spot turn that electricity into hydrogen, and then in the containers keep it for car loading that would pass through our country because at this point in the Republic we still have no registered any hydrogen vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99114	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99115	Thank you for your question. As far as we're concerned, we absolutely think we should do everything possible to make it green hydrogen. As we have said through the Bifuels Act that the use of renewable energy in terms of the supply of electricity to, by oil suppliers, is accounted for in the multiple achievement of their targets in renewable energy sources in transport, and here it is logical that if we told the railways that they had to use renewable electricity, if we said that we had to use renewable electricity, it would be totally inappropriate to do hydrogen chargers and then charge them with grey hydrogen. So absolutely our program in terms of the tender for the allocation of these funds will ić in the direction not only give the project to see if it is good but also how this project will work, and it is green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99116	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99117	Dear Secretary of State, first every step forward is good and we at the Bridge Club are going to talk a lot of this positive towards this whole story, but I have a few logical problems. 32-33 pages, so the entire funding report says the EU predicts nearly 500 billion euros in investment by 2050, and Croatia over 70 billion euros. If we know that the value of the Peljega Bridge, so it says in the document, you know, 4 billion, that means what it is, 17 Peljeka Bridges is worth, so we plan to get it out of the EU funds and budgets, and do we have that money, so are we going to succeed, you're ruling, are you going to succeed, or is there going to be one good strategy and one good story told? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99118	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99119	Now yes, not to take out a strategy and read it I suppose it's written which are all total benefits in terms of potential investments not only how much money will be received in terms of either Europe or ours, but how much would ultimately drive the investment. I guess that's what the strategy says, this big amount is, and it's definitely going to take a lot of money. We think that much will be invested in hydrogen, given that these conventional renewable sources, especially wind and sun, will in the near future need minimal, almost certainly no incentive from the state and any other institutions. So our focus in the future will be micro solarists on the houses of citizens and new technologies, and from new technologies absolutely hydrogen will be the one that will dominate in financial and any other sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99120	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99121	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the SDP Club welcomes the transition to renewable energy sources, and any contribution is welcome. However, on the trail of other replicas already spoken today, there are doubts about this strategy. In order for the strategy to be adopted, any strategy to act on something, it is necessary to know which points we are going from. In order to know what Croatian needs are for the implementation of hydrogen in quantity and time, we need to know what we have and what we need. And in order to know what we have at our disposal, the Energy Act has prescribed the adoption of reports, which are annual reports on the security of energy supply and the expected energy needs with an estimate for the next 5 to 15 years. from the date of the report. This report is an obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring and publish it. My question is to you, did you propose by law and did the government bring and publish any report on the security of energy supply and expected needs, and was this the basis for this strategy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99122	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99123	Thank you. The government of the Republic of Croatia through its own ministry, which is regularly funded and made every year through the Institute of Hrvoje Pozhar, the famous brochure "Energy in Croatia" which is clearly available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this one on the websites and clearly and in printed form, is in this way reporting on the state of energy in the Republic of Croatia, and clearly through all this data and all that we have in the ministry we are considering and planning clearly and laws, and so on this strategy. We are aware of the fact that hydrogen is the fuel of the future as regards industry as mentioned here in the parliamentary debate, and in Croatia primarily because of traffic. So we think this strategy is necessary... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99124	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99125	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Hydrogen has been a energy carrier for a long time with the debate and an integral part of the EU countries' plans and beyond. We have home and industrial heating, a sector that can't always be electric, and hydrogen can be a partial solution with existing infrastructure, can be used to increase demand. My question for you is, what are the minimum or higher changes and what percentage of hydrogen can be mixed is that 10, 20 or more? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99126	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99127	Thank you. As I said in the opening statement this so far are known technologies that can be mixed up somewhere up to 10%, probably in the future it will be more. This is important for us to clearly use these pipelines that now operate exclusively for hydrocarbon gases in the future for at least one part through renewable gases since we have taken the obligation to raise our renewables in Toplinarism by 1.2 each year. This can only be achieved in a few ways, one is a clearly renewable source of heatlifter energy either heating or cooling, and the other is geotherms that we try to place through the Hydrocarbons Act and through the NPOO near our Toplan, and the third would be that one part of renewable gas is released into the network in the future and thus achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99128	Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99129	Dear Secretary of State, the strategy has been identified as a strategic goal, as well as education, research and development. And now in that part, we're looking to establish a regional hydrogen center. So Croatia would become a regional hydrogen research centre among 13 new EU members. It also noted in the strategy that the technique for the establishment and functioning of the regional centre will be defined by a separate government act. If we really want to become a center, a regional hydrogen research centre, is this perhaps the first step we need to take, that the government adopts a separate act to establish and operate a regional centre? Because the assumption is that this regional centre will bring us both innovation and future research and additional value to our scientific community in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99130	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99131	Thank you. Clearly, we support it. We didn't accidentally write a regional center. And that we as the Republic of Croatia participate in the first European regional valley of hydrogen is not an accident. It's just that, we'd say on purpose made from our side because we think we need to mark this regional character and we need to get maximum involved, run into this hydrogen story to succeed tomorrow and set up a regional centre. But our ambition will be to identify this regional centre by the Commission and not leave the regional centre for the sake of the regional centre for our own sake, but to be in coordination with the Commission. And if we could do that, then the acts will follow you. So, we won't rush it now, but in communication with the Commission, we'll see which way it goes, but we'll do everything we can to make it real in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99132	Now it's Comrade Klasic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99133	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. Given the significant role of hydrogen in these carbonisations, and the wide use of transport to public urban transport, whether or not you are planning to further expand and promote energy efficiency, especially in the area of transport and public urban transport, in order to introduce this greenhouse neutral fuel, one more broad incentive. In current incentives, they are equated with electric and hybrid vehicles. Given the investment, I don't think it would be too bad to provide any further incentives for this vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99134	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99135	Thank you. Certainly, any of our actions in the direction of financing hydrogen vehicles cannot be in proportion to and ratios such as electric vehicles, because they are absolutely more expensive devices so that what I have already said at the outset we are going towards creating infrastructure in order to at all encourage the purchase of fuel, vehicles because here you have to simply create this infrastructure that will produce and be able to fill those fuels. And it's clear that in that part we're going to make sure that not only the infrastructure is financed, but it's scheduled on vehicles. We need to balance both of them in this direction as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99136	My colleague Željko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99137	Dear Secretary, the Social Democrats Club agrees with the strategy, i.e. we welcome everything presented in the strategy. We have some questions. I already asked some questions yesterday when we were on the Committee on Economy. We have some more questions about, primarily, warehouses, since we've talked several times about energy sources and the storage of various energy sources, so it's always been said that it's actually on local self-government. So local self-government needs to adopt a business plan so that this can be implemented later and that this could be achieved on that field belonging to local self-government. My first question is whether you have already given some instructions to local self-governments to prepare space for both storage and hydrogen tanking stations. And the second question is about the production itself, which is currently related, you said on the board yesterday that we would just go from renewable energy sources. Is it really standing or are we going to have other types of production?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99138	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99139	Thank you. As far as spatial planning is concerned, we have often communicated in communication on other topics with the county spatial planning offices to take care of hydrogen especially when it comes to planning, allocation for power plants to be where the gas pipeline is expected tomorrow and the gas connection. That's what we warned them. This part of the facility itself, I think, will not be a problem with spatial planning, more with a precise technical specification as well as how the charge room must have, and clearly we will see it through HERA and the other institutions that are legally required to prescribe it. And as far as this is concerned, our commitment is to make it a green hydrogen absolutely, because we think that Croatia that is rich in renewable sources and it will be no longer make sense to talk about another hydrogen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99140	Comrade Simičević, here you go. Someone's left it on. Comrade Pavić, please turn off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99141	Here's my thanks, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We certainly welcome this strategy and all those who make this planet more beautiful and pleasant for life. By reducing the use of fossil fuels, we'll actually get rid of the big dictators in the world who use it to create some bad things. But what I wanted to ask was this. We have raw materials here that are practically cheap, but we also have technology quite expensive. And now you've mentioned about 200 million kuna here in the first phase, and now by 2030, we only have 2% of our energy use opportunities. So how much does it really need to invest money to get hydrogen to the user? And do we still need to rely more on renewable energy sources that are much more accessible and that are easier to realise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99142	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99144	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99145	Thank you. It is clear that our commitment is now in these next seven years, eight years means by 2030 to make as many renewable capacities as possible for Croatia to stop importing electricity especially in the summer months when the biggest imports of electricity are and it is not at all controversial and not a dilemma. Hydrogen is heading towards this means as a potential energy storage facility and as a clear one transport solution especially for heavy traffic, trucking, maritime transport, that's something we have to work on. We are aware that it will take a lot of resources to start with, but as with solars, winds, biomass and others as time goes by, technology will obviously exist cheaper and more commercially so we count that this process will go faster than we might have done here, if we're conservative about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99146	Here you go, pals of Jack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99147	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. One of our prominent energy experts said I wouldn't give my waste to anyone, my waste is my raw materials. That sentence is not only symbolic, it's almost visionary. Tell me, is this strategy planned until 2050?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99149	Thank you. Clearly, hydrogen can be produced from waste and this strategy does not defend it, but it can be produced from waste, electricity can be produced from waste, it could be produced from one part of the Republic of Croatia, let's say not to export waste to Austria and pay for the expensive money of that waste in Austria, and the parallel entire peninsula, called Istria, depends on only one coal power plant. And then the County of Istria tells you in spatial plans that solar plants can only be built in the construction area. And then I ask you, how do these people in Istria think about solving their energy addiction or independence, and maybe it doesn't suit them tomorrow to use some other fuel in Plomino, and they don't parallelly make it possible to produce within themselves. So this strategy absolutely does not defend that, but it is all the subject of a debate that we need to discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99150	Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99151	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We will first of all praise the fact that we have become an internal valley and that this is an entrepreneurial step forward, given that Europe is 75% of the valley and as such is recognizable in the world and that your initiative has recognized and the EU leadership has no reason not to quote it here in HS. As far as the hydrogen economy is concerned, it's not something new, even Jules Verne described him as perhaps even propheticly listed him as future energy. What I'm actually going to ask you is, given that we're talking about traffic here today, I'm going to do a little bit of work from the perspective of the green economy, given that we now know the technology that some go to ammonia, some go to methanol, some even go to LNG, was LNG. As far as Emsland's plane in Northern Germany is concerned, they have carbon neutral fuel and cars go to lithium and solid-state batteries, so I'm quite interested in it when it's all in the process of whether it's more cost-effective to actually go to hydrogen since we have and other alternatives in green... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99152	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99153	Thanks for asking. We think that hydrogen for transport is particularly a ship that you mentioned a good solution, primarily for these lines in Croatia that are a little longer where it will simply be difficult to cover it with potential batteries that would be charged easier with these smaller locations and we think it would be good in the future to think about, the first possible transitional period of LNG, and later hydrogen because we simply think that this traffic cannot be solved differently and that is something we will be working on. And we think that Croatia has a chance to make, in technological and other terms, a certain know-how and to use this whole strategy and tomorrow the funds that we will invest in our universities and companies that will do so to simply be in one part of the first and think that would be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99154	Thank you. My colleagues, Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99155	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we discussed this strategy on the committee yesterday, and then I mentioned that actually given the mass of unknowns, it seems that this strategy may have arrived early, but on the side of that. What seems important to me is that what Croatia needs right now is actually a plan and this action plan to invest in research, development and transfer technologies in the hydrogen area. So I'm wondering if you've talked within the government about how much funding from the NPO and from the multiannual financial framework will be allocated to... hydrogen? And my second question is, are you going to change the strategy of the waste management centre and the currently present technologies of mechanical biological processing according to new technologies of treatment that then produce hydrogen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99157	Thank you. As far as NPO and OPC are concerned, at least for the time being, this part of energy and resources, which my smallness covers, is predicted for the time being 160 million kunas. So it's not a little bit of money, but clearly given how clearly it takes that it's just one start to make something. And as for this part of the environment that my colleagues are covering right now, specifically here, it would be too ambitious to answer, but here I can ask them, so let them communicate directly with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99158	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99159	Water in transport and green policies are very important, however, hydrogen is also very important in agriculture in the production of artificial fertilisers, so I am interested in this strategy whether you have looked back on agriculture and what the intentions of this strategy are because we know how important agriculture is and how significant hydrogen is in agriculture. I understand that we are talking here most about the hydrogen use strategy, which is the energy of the future, and as a green policy is very important. But here I am, of course, a representative, and, of course, many farmers will be interested in hydrogen in agriculture. We know here's our Petrochemy products means fertilizer artificially where without hydrogen it can't, we'd have to have some policy meaning towards agriculture, and in the strategy listed not only in traffic, I'm interested in what's with this very important segment, which is hydrogen in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99160	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99161	Thank you for the hydrogen in agriculture and the general story of renewable ETS sources and everything in agriculture would agree with you there. We make maximum efforts in the direction that Petrochemy, our means Petrochemy is the only one that holds 335 total gas consumption in the Republic and the whole part about fertilisers and this et blue and everything else, our main focus is in the direction that Petrochemia is helping finance carbon dioxide disposal in geological structures so that it means it's the one that seems to me to be now close to 80 euros per tonne of ETS and that ETS simply kills at the price of gas kills the price of fertilisers. So the state has to do the maximum through the transport tariffs of the pipeline and through ETS reduction of assistance to Petrokemia No matter who owns Petrokemia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99162	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State Hydrogen is no longer a science fiction but takes a rather significant place and role in the supply of energy. Hydrogen and fuel articles that produce electricity from hydrogen have proved somewhat more flexible than batteries especially when it comes to heavy vehicles, but also about buses, boats, trains. And you mentioned in your opening address in the Croatian Parliament that there are certain sectors of the economy that are interested in developing hydrogen technology, so I wonder if you can tell us more about it. And since we know that if such innovations are introduced, it should be followed by some job creation, so do you have a projection of how many new jobs could be opened in Croatia by introducing hydrogen technologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99164	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99165	Thank you. It is clear that hydrogen is now like, as a new energy and as something which is now the subject and interest of the European Commission and us as states and the subject of funding opens up the possibility that certain companies in Croatia will also develop and thus also create jobs. In particular, this one wouldn't be so free right now if I were to go out with your numbers, but the fact that according to our latest competition or testimony of interest, a large number of companies are interested in including what through the valley of hydrogen, through all of this, these processes. We will be in a situation very soon and we will be able to say how much it really is potential jobs in Croatia. And what I'm sure of is what this one is, and this great interest will certainly result in with certain concrete jobs, and here we will be witnesses to that I hope very quickly about the establishment of these chargers and electrolysers. It won't be possible without our brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99166	Here you go, Comrade Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99167	The President-in-Office, the esteemed secretary, the reduction of greenhouse gases, the reduction of CO2, decarbonisation are the basic concepts in protecting and preventing climate change. The use of electricity from renewable energy sources and renewable hydrogen is the basis for planet protection. Hydrogen is being used as a fuel for 1806, used in World War II, used in the 1970s during the major oil crisis, but all falls into the water is whether because oil producers are too strong along with classic engines, but now thanks to Putin, the issue is being updated. The advantage of hydrogen is that exhaust gases and steam, and internal combustion engines can easily be converted. Where is Croatia regarding the electricity sector and the use of renewable and grey hydrogen compared to the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99168	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99169	As far as Croatia is concerned, we are now producing only grey hydrogen in our refinery as byproduct, and this clear idea is through what we are talking about here today and what we are talking about to start producing and green hydrogen in the filling rooms, either in places and in the power plants where they will be practically the energy battery for the system at the moment when that energy is not from the sun and the wind. And that Croatia is here now at the beginning of green hydrogen, as far as gray we've had it before, we'll still have it. But as we've pointed out more than once here, that's it. What we see is also trains because it is known that the electric railway to Split is not yet, but let's say the hydrogen train is something that is considered seriously as a possible situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99170	Comrade Vukovac, here you go. Comrade Vukovac, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99171	Thank you. Therefore, respected state secretaries mixing hydrogen with natural gas can significantly contribute to a global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, greenhouse gases if hydrogen is produced using low carbon energy sources such as solar energy, wind energy, biomass energy, however, there are a number of restrictions in this field in Croatia so our citizens cannot produce solar energy under the same conditions, HEP sets different limits, wind power plants are reserved for individuals, and there are still only controversial examples of biomass production. Speaking of biomass itself, I'm alone five to six years ago. participated in the development of a project idea to gather about 50 cattlemen from 3 Slavonian municipalities in Brod-Slavonian County and build a biogas plant needed support, administrative support for the county itself and one small part of the finances, however we were rejected I believe we'd get the same answer today, although today we've got 50 of those cattlemen. [[Intruder: Thank you]] We may only have five survivors, how to achieve then.../The speaker turned off/... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99172	Comrade Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99175	As for the fact that people can't make solars on houses, we disagree, HEP must allow it, the law is clear from 2018, self-supply for, for consumption alone is possible in all parts of the Republic and there is no dilemma and debate at all. If you have an example somewhere, feel free to contact the ministry, and we'll report it to HERA, and we'll report it to whoever we need if they don't do it to whoever it is. Your thesis that renewable sources are reserved for individuals, there absolutely can't, I can't agree. The renewable sources are reserved for those who appear neatly in places where the spatial plan provides for this and according to the law, read the new Electricity Market Act, clear and transparent rules. And that's it. And as for biomass, biomass has its own problem because it's very expensive and it's getting bigger and it's got a raw material problem, and then it's about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99176	I thank the secretary of state, no more replicas, so you can go back to the scene, and we'll see if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I will open the debate then, the first is the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists and respected counterpart Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99177	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a hydrogen strategy until 2050. the strategic objectives of the development of the use of hydrogen in industry, and the development potential and potential for the use of hydrogen in the Republic of Croatia. This strategy is one of the most important strategies we bring in because, apart from considering green hydrogen as one of the energy sources of its adoption, further decarbonisation of the energy sector will be encouraged, which is in line with the objectives of by 2050. Europe becomes a climatic neutral continent. As for green technology and the use of renewable energy sources, HSLS supports any efforts by the government and the resolution ministry towards the implementation of such projects. The idea of using a large amount of water on earth as a source of hydrogen fuel is not new, but it is questionable whether it will come true in the future. Green hydrogen is the only neutral alternative to carbon, produced by electrolysis of water using exclusively renewable energy. Grey hydrogen is traditionally obtained from methane that produces hydrogen and carbon dioxide, i.e. greenhouse gases. In Croatia hydrogen is mainly produced from natural gas, so-called natural gas. grey hydrogen within industrial plants for the purposes of its own production processes. In such plants hydrogen still has carbon footprints, and a significant share of greenhouse gases is still produced from fossil fuels, which could be replaced by renewable hydrogen in this case. The development of a hydrogen-based economy and the promotion of production itself in Croatia and the EU is becoming a slow alternative imperative given the current state of the energy market in Europe and the world as well. For such an economy it is necessary to ensure the demand for hydrogen and a distribution system to ensure that the hydrogen produced is delivered to end-users. That's the biggest problem right now. Croatia has been defined to stimulate the production of renewable hydrogen, which would be partly obtained by electrolysis of water using electricity from renewable sources. Production would take place at the place of production of electricity with the aim of discharging the electricity system or at a place of significant consumption in order to decommission the transmission system. The risk of such orientation is the possibility of a halt in the production of this eco-acceptable energy due to the limited capacity increase of renewable energy sources, as well as possible restrictions on the integration of two still alternative energy sources. It is therefore necessary to combine different energy sources and develop an appropriate energy storage model to be used when necessary. The most prepared sector for the use of hydrogen is the transport sector, in particular the public transport segment and municipal services, which would also reduce the emissions of harmful gases, but also noise. In the transport sector with the highest CO2 emissions, hydrogen is one of the alternative and complete solutions for electric mobility, especially for road freight, including urban logistics, road and rail transport of passengers and goods, as well as maritime and river transport. For the use of hydrogen in the transport sector, it is important to coordinate the construction of infrastructure with the supply and delivery of hydrogen vehicles. Today there are already hydrogen vehicles in serial production that are active, especially in public urban transport, and to reduce CO2 emissions and improve air quality in urban areas. Accordingly, the transport sector may be the most mature for the use of hydrogen in Croatia. The strategy provides for the construction of 100 chargers for hydrogen-powered vehicles. It's supposed to be some kind of minimum. I don't think building infrastructure for green hydrogen should be limited even in a symbolic way. The construction of infrastructure should not only be followed by an increase in the share of hydrogen power plants, but only built infrastructure can affect the increase of hydrogen-powered vehicles. In doing so, care should be taken of the evenness of the construction of this infrastructure throughout Croatia, especially in important tourist routes. As a maritime country, we also expect the use of hydrogen for ships, and the construction of such hydrogen-powered ships can also be a niche for successful management, the economic activity of Croatian shipyards. Hydrogen can be used as an energy carrier for heating, regardless of whether it is a larger or less closed system. As a transitional phase in decarbonisation, it is encouraged to mix hydrogen with natural gas. Although such activities require the re-use of existing gas systems, the existing infrastructure in Croatia has great potential for the distribution of hydrogen to a large number of users who today use mostly natural gas for heating. However, the question arises whether this strategy will remain a dead letter on paper or whether it is an ambitious plan for the green transformation of Croatia. HSLS believes that any planned and strategic document should be ambitious, as well as the strategy we are discussing. Croatia is a relatively small country with not too many inhabitants, which is its advantage in ensuring its energy independence. Therefore, after the adoption of this strategy, the state must engage more fully in the implementation of the measures outlined in order to achieve a level of advanced EU countries in the area of hydrogen use. This means ensuring financial investment, not only from domestic sources, but also from EU funds. This also implies not only the purchase of equipment, but also the involvement of their own brains, their own research capacities and cooperation with interested economic operators. Although with green hydrogen as an alternative energy, there has yet to be a revolutionary step in the global application, which is why Croatia is only one year or two behind advanced countries in the area for now, and therefore we have the opportunity to catch the connection especially in the industry. However, only if the state in this field is open and innovative. In particular, the active participation of Croatia and its companies in the establishment of a valley of hydrogen in the northern Adriatic should be started. the process of pooling and rounding stakeholders in the areas of Italy, Slovenia and Croatia. In conclusion, HSLS supports this strategy because it believes that the introduction of green hydrogen not only contributes to reducing climate change through the introduction of new non-fossil fuels, but is also an opportunity for the Croatian economy, the scientific community and wider regional international co-operation, and the construction of Croatia's image as an ecologically oriented, and energy independent, or free country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99178	Second debate of the SDSS Representatives Club and respected colleague Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99179	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. We today have an extremely important document with far-reaching goals, and then with far-reaching and consequences. The proposal for a hydrogen strategy by 2050 will certainly have an impact on all of us even though we didn't quite understand it that way. From the perspective of ecology, this is an even more important step that certainly works positively. What we're talking about today actually refers to the preservation of our planet's biosphere. We've all been developing for the last 150 years, especially in the last 70, based on burning fossil fuels and the population's growth required more energy and more food. So today we're where we are, and that's what it's about to be said, it's about time something was done. The key to success is to accelerate energy transition to renewable energy sources, and to implement a comprehensive decarbonisation of transport and production of all types of goods. Renewable energy sources along with hydrogen can significantly accelerate this transition and thus contribute to the avoidance of crisis situations and catastrophic scenarios. This strategy highlights the advantages of developing the potential for hydrogen economy and is in line with the objectives of the European hydrogen strategy as well as the national development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. It includes the ability to produce hydrogen, its storage, i.e. storage and transport of hydrogen, use, as well as the potential for research, development and innovation in the area of all hydrogen-based economy. The strategy envisions four strategic objectives: increasing the production of renewable hydrogen, increasing the potential of renewable energy sources for renewable hydrogen production, increasing hydrogen use, and promoting the development of research and development of hydrogen technologies. The strategic objectives should contribute to reducing CO2 emissions in line with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia as part of the EU with a view to reducing the impact on global warming. The achievement of the objectives would result in an increased share of hydrogen consumption in total energy consumption up to 2050 as well as the production of renewable hydrogen that needs to be achieved in view of the projected share in consumption. This strategy is certainly important not only for the climate, but also for the economic development of Croatia, because the strategy will send a clear message to all those interested in investing in hydrogen technology, that the state is on their side. Croatia in the hydrogen energy economy can find its place in all four areas of hydrogen technology, hence from production through storage to transport and use of green hydrogen. It should not be ignored that this market is not saturated in both our world and ours, i.e. it is still a relatively undeveloped area and I am sure that Croatia can and has something to offer. Also, Croatia could easily become energy independent because of its geographical position and climate conditions. to produce all energy for its own needs, not only for the production of electricity, but also for the transport and heating of its own sources without CO2 emissions. But in that case, besides the European story, we need to focus on the local character. We will all agree that renewable hydrogen can be used to help decarbonise sectors such as heavy industry or transport especially those of maritime, air and rail. In the case of decarbonisation of the heavy industry, it is primarily thought of those who use high temperatures such as refineries and steel that could be electrocuted in certain situations, but this would naturally require large investments in brand new equipment while green hydrogen could serve as an almost direct replacement for coal and gas. As regards transport of renewable hydrogen, it could be used in particular for maritime and river transport, air transport and in certain circumstances rail transport, as well as freight, road, motor vehicles and buses. The opportunity of hydrogen transition in certain transport branches will be viewed primarily in the length of the relations they perform, and the alternative to hydrogen in decarbonisation plans is certainly electrical energy, which is also a positive step. Experts believe that hydrogen is not a solution for decarbonising the heating sector because it is not efficient, competitive or easy to use in heating houses and that it should be directed to a solution without fossil fuels depending on the local context and resources for decarbonising the heating sector such as those on district heating and heat cranes to increase energy efficiency and exploit waste heat, solar heat and geothermal energy of smart devices, etc. However, since this is usually the case, nothing is perfect, nor is it in this sphere, so we find some of the problems, for example. For the production of pure hydrogen, the mentioned electrolysers should be built in a quantity larger than they have been before. Large investments will also be needed to lead hydrogen to cities or existing gas networks should be restored or upgraded to support the transmission of 100% renewable hydrogen, which is, of course, one of the biggest challenges. Furthermore, some experts believe that Europe will likely be a major importer of green hydrogen from a region with cheaper renewable sources, which again raises the question of dependence on other countries, as well as geopoliticals, which we all witness when it comes to gas. It also requires a huge amount of electricity to produce renewable hydrogen, which means a huge increase in wind and sun energy for hydrogen production or will only be profitable if produced from excess renewable electricity i.e. only when it's produced too much. The objective strategy is certainly considered to be a positive step for the Republic of Croatia if we want to focus on the development of renewable or green hydrogen which is essentially the only climate and ecologically acceptable form since it is produced by the use of electricity from renewable sources. Other forms of hydrogen such as grey or blue are not acceptable because in most cases fossil fuels or nuclear energy are used to produce them. We all need to be aware that the energy system in the future will really differ significantly from today's energy system, not only by energy sources but also by technologies and the way energy is used. The SDSS representative club will support the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99180	The Club of Representatives Mosta will now speak, two MPs, Miletic and a colleague of Troscott. The first one is a colleague of Miletic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99181	The Honorable President of HS Mr Jandrokovic, the Honorable Mr. Bukarica, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So, we at the Mosta Club, of course, are in a good mood to always look positively at all the good projects that come from anywhere, when they come from the good SDP projects like that Executive Law, we support it, when it comes from the HDZ's ruling good stories we support it, we have no problem, we are not lobotomyd and all that is good for the Croatian people we support. I'd like to explain a little plastic to the people what it's all about, but it's 500 billion euros. Can we imagine that? I'm starting to shake whether, not now, like when I brought the signatures for the referendum, but 500 billion euros. But there will be settlements, but there will be a group of interesting associations, but there will be full pockets. All right. Today, if I'm not mistaken, and I don't think I'm wrong, at the summit of the EU Member States, they're agreeing to share in the purchase of natural gas infused natural gas and hydrogen before the next winter. Why? The situation is clear, the state wants to provide enough energy for what's coming to us. The war in Ukraine, the insane behaviour of Russia is a clear indication that energy independence and self-sufficiency are a question of all issues. That's why we as a small, but proud state have to protect our water, put in the Constitution, protect our entire national interests, rob Croatia of enough food. You'd almost say, "Dear citizens, now is the time for you to have a shovel in the country, at least on the balcony a little tomato will come well." So the EU turned to hydrogen in climate protection plans, decarbonisation of the energy sector and the entire industry. The European Commission has presented two of its strategic documents which want to affect the reduction of harmful climate change in the maintenance of temperatures below 2 degrees in relation to the average temperature of the pre-industrial level. They brought their documents, strategies, and so did the government of the Republic of Croatia brought their strategy and I said every step forward is better than stagnation or a step back, so we are in the mood to welcome all the good proposals that talk about the environmentally acceptable form of hydrogen produced from renewable sources, and no, I don't know like. Blue hydrogen or grey that are produced in a process where fossil fuels are used. But we see one problem here, I see a lot of them, but here, so Croatia plans to invest more than 70 billion euros by 2050 and in a document ruling on page 32 and 33 where the talks about funding are said to say we will withdraw the money from the budget and from the eu funds. Now, if I haven't been shaking by now, I'm starting to shake to the end. So we've seen how capable you are of withdrawing money from the eu funds and we've seen how much you're able to look out for not now to secure ecological standards but to restore people's homes in Banovina, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia sleep in containers, and ministers go to jail or explore OLAFs and USKOK, so the citizens of the Republic have no apartment, house in Zagreb, and we'll have 70 billion euros, 70 billion euros, kuna, thank you Secretary of State brought me in, but that's why you're to watch out when it takes me. 70 billion, 70 billion. How many Peles bridges is that? The cost would have calculated 17 well for me, thank you, buddy. 17 Peljek bridges we will invest to protect nature. So we MOST's are the greenest party, I'd say on the outside and on the inside. We're not just green on the outside, we're inside some weird other color. So our Catalinić and the team since 2013, 2015, we are very much for environmental protection and greenery. We guard Croatia and our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99182	The rest will be spoken by fellow Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99183	Marin Miletic has already welcomed everyone, so there is no need for me to welcome more. As for this very 19th - century strategy, the hydrogen economy is indeed nothing strange and new, since even then novelist Jules Verne described it as actually going to be an energetic future. And here we really hope that when he traveled around the world and in 80 days he sailed the world that he might have seen this interregional, interregional valley of hydrogen and that maybe we'll be the real and first region in the world can freely say where at country level we'll co-operate and produce hydrogen and infrastructure and energy, etc., and in that case you might actually be taking what in terms of the first, start up so to say at the state level. And we really welcome that. What we'd like to touch is some of the problems. So under number one, three are some kind of hydrogen production source, so one is gas, the other is electrolysis and the third is carbohydrates, or biomass. Now what might not be clearly expressed in the strategy itself is, we are talking about traffic here today, and food is actually something that will be extremely important for Croatia's strategy, and we know, therefore, that hydrogen production is crucial for the petrochemical industry because of production, so with Huber's process when nitrogen is drawn from the atmosphere and creates ammonia, therefore artificial fertilisers that we then use to produce, or agricultural production, which is actually the basis of civilization today. We can't just throw it away. So this Petrochemy is also important for Croatia because about petrochemical factories are always built with a six hundred miles [300 km] then they are still profitable. So, when you make a rook around Petrochemy Kutina 300 kilometers, so that, you, that artificial fertiliser, covers that area. What is the problem is that both at EU and Croatian levels, between 30% and 40% of electricity is generally generated from renewable energy sources, 20% from nukes and 40% from fossils. Now, if Germany, for example, is going to shut down nuclear power plants, it's automatically shutting down nuclear, nuclear power. If we are going to reduce gas for geopolitical reasons that we now see because of this war, the question really is whether 30 to 40% of renewable energy sources are sufficient not only for hydrogen production but for electricity production above all. This is the first question that we have to solve as well as in Croatia. So, first of all, we're going to have to solve the problem of power shortages precisely because of this situation that we have geopoliticalally. And then go into hydrogen production. And let's say they say they're going to be produced from renewable energy sources. We need to watch and read in the EU, for example, in Germany, we already have a situation now that we have a decline in electricity generation from wind power plants. And why is that? Because they used all those windiest parts of Germany. She's doing all the painting. She's doing it. So it would be like building all the wind power plants in Dinara, Drniša, so wherever the storm is strong and then we would build wind power plants in Slavonia for example. That doesn't have the potential, does it? So as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, it is seen by German productivity that it is falling. Not only that, but here are the European conservatives, together with a group in the Parliament of Renew Europe, ordered one study they actually said, questioned the parallel Netherlands and the Czech Republic, and they actually saw that renewable energy sources would not be sufficient. Let's say the Netherlands, which is a country along the North Sea with an abundant wind or one Czech Republic that has regional diversity, has a more demanding landscape so it won't be able to do so with a renewable energy source and they come up with the next questionnaire that we want to put here today, which is that the only way this strategy might try to do it is nuclear energy. There we have touched all these colors, etc., but nuclear energy especially these new fourth-generation reactors that cool with helium Koreans themselves at global level, so they suggest that the excess energy then goes and spreads into carbon production. So we can't talk about carbon production when we don't even have electricity yet, and when compared with hydrogen and electricity, the purpose of electricity is still prevailing. What's the key question, let's say from the green energy perspective, is that ships go to ammonia today by new technologies, they go to methanol, they go to... LNG, the planes are going non-e-light fuels, the cars are going to a battery that is much more cost-effective to lithium ion batteries solid state etc. And when you put it in line with hydrogen, the question is whether it's worth it at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We welcome that strategy especially if we're going to be the first. However, the issue here is cost-effectiveness, and in particular the questionnaire on hydrogen is that it is extremely explosive, especially at all concentrations oxygen bindings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99184	The fourth club is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and will be spoken by a respected colleague, Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99185	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. If hydrogen is an important factor in energy transition is no secret, they call it fuel for the future, production technology and hydrogen storage there is, there is no news, but it needs to be commercialized to make it financially acceptable. 10 years ago. Our experts and scientists have made a plan for what we should do. So today we are talking about something that is not news, but more significant shifts in this area are not possible without investments and state subsidies due to current costs that are still high mainly in green hydrogen, and we have heard that in this strategy the emphasis is on green hydrogen. It's commercially not acceptable right now. The world’s production and consumption of hydrogen is estimated at 120 million tonnes per year, of which 2/3 is pure hydrogen, and the rest is a mixture with other gases. Most hydrogen is produced and used at the site of production, in industry, refineries, chemical industry, steel industry. It's also manufactured in our country. It's no secret. The most hydrogen is currently produced from natural gas and that is so-called natural gas. Grey hydrogen. The share of green hydrogen or hydrogen that is from renewable energy sources around the world is at 2% level, everything else is produced from fossil fuels, natural gas, coal and oil. In the EU, this ratio is slightly better, so the share of green hydrogen is 5%. And the key question that we have to ask today is what are the priorities and what is the dynamics, is that application in industry such as in the whole world or in transport as this strategy proposes? However, if both refineries worked with us, if the crude oil didn't go to Hungary for processing, it might make more sense for us than industry, not traffic. But despite the policy that all governments have led since the '90s, so to this day, and which they have extinguished our domestic industry with us there is still Petrochemy and Sugar, although only one, we once had 3, today we only have one that uses dominant gas as energy, and of course there is a construction industry that has a high share of energy costs in production costs, meaning 3 cements, production of scraps, production of modular blocks for construction, so industry still has something, so perhaps in the strategy, the priority should be industry, not transport. Logically, it would be driven by industry and make action plans for each industrial branch, especially as some kind of hodogram, and all relevant competent institutions that are relevant in the segment of renewable energy sources. In the hydrogen strategy, the EU plans three stages related to hydrogen production and use, and only since 2030 is it planned to come to a phase that hydrogen is commercially acceptable and that it is priced as competitive. Only somewhere in the third phase since 2050 is the wider use of green hydrogen in different sectors and plans to raise that share to 20%, which is quite ambitious. As far as Croatia is concerned, the share of renewable energy sources in the total mix is far greater than the targets set and it is fully satisfactory. Due to the high share of wind power plants or uneven energy sources, the production of green hydrogen has its importance in the storage segment, and I agree with you there. However, in order to achieve this again, a more efficient electricity infrastructure is needed in order to enable the whole system to be stable and large investments are still needed. This strategy proposes three scenarios with a different level of investment per year, it is a good path, but of course we have to ask the question because, unlike some other EU member states, Croatia has a high share of renewable sources, and that is more than what we planned to achieve, and a whole series of countries have not achieved the planned stakes, and then we really have to ask ourselves where we are in a hurry, where we are chasing it and whether we are going again like gooses in fog, because while we blindly follow the EU green plan that requires billions and billions of new investments, if memory serves me well in the low-carbon development strategy for Croatia alone, it was the amount of 100 billion kuna, I will not have a currency mustache like some. Hungarians at 120km from Osijek are working to upgrade the Nuclear Power Plant in Pax, Slovenians are planning a new block in Krško and these are billions of kuna investments, but that electricity is still the cheapest. And I know that now green activists will go with their tyrades, but I have to ask myself, who are they protecting us from? France has 17 nukes, so 100 km from us Slavs 120 is about building a nuclear power plant, from whom are you protecting us? Are you really protecting us from any nuclear hazards or are you essentially protecting us from the cheapest acceptable electricity? And in principle, it's an energy that doesn't need either incentives or subsidies and all these similar instruments that have proved to be a true paradise for investors like Mr. Bashic behind which we all know as Krš Falleden, for example. And who's paying for it? All of us on the power bills. And there is nothing against green policies, green energy, a green plan, but also why we here in Croatia have to move among the first to some new technologies that are still imported in a phase where they are not commercially profitable, so the subsidies of the state are necessary and they are plentiful. And then we're going backwards from traffic, and those from industry, because then it's necessary to rebuild the proper infrastructure for both production and distribution and hydrogen supply to encourage the purchase of vehicles, ships, trains that will use that hydrogen as fuel for the purpose of creating consumption. You could say we have nothing, and the only advantage we have is a good infrastructure for the transport and storage of natural gas because it can be re-designed and some 10% hydrogen can be added. So again, no big investments, no big subsidies from the state. None of this is commercially cost-effective right now, and what's the rush? Where are we going again? I honestly feel that even a firm belief that our planet will not save activists rolling along the road and hugging trees in the park, but engineers and scientists. They've always found a solution, they'll find it today. The development of science and technology is the only way to preserve nature and the environment. But for all of us, it takes the resources and, of course, the political will that is vital in this. Once again I will mention hydrogen-related is no news, but where is Croatia in a hurry? Why Croatia does not take care of its resources that it has very much enough to benefit the people of Beautiful Ours from our natural wealth, from our oil, from our natural gas through lower energy prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99186	The next club of MPs will be that Social Democrats will speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99187	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, esteemed secretary with associates. I'm going to look back on a strategy with a slightly different emphasis because I think we need that strategy. I think that given Europe's demands in terms of world trends comes at the right time and that we need to prepare as soon as possible for a new euro in energy, so I think that what is written in the strategy has its basis, and what I'm not clear is what I'm going to ask you right now. So we know, among other things, that right now, here's what it says in the strategy that we don't have a charge room. We've got a gas station at Engineering College that's filling a bike so there's that. It's currently in the tables written zero because we have and the goal is to actually achieve those 10 chargers by 2025. It says in the strategy over the next few years, but to be assumed, given the tables that later appear in the strategy, I believe that it is then in 2025, since it says that by 2025 in total hydrogen energy consumption, hydrogen will be represented by approximately 0.1%, and then this would be the 10 charge stations that should be in the territory of Croatia. This growth shown in the strategy means the share of hydrogen in total consumption that's a little confusing and I'm asking you for an explanation. In fact, it is predicted that 35 megawatts will be produced by 2025 or that the share of hydrogen will be 0.1%, and in 2030 it will be 0.2%, which is double growth. However, between 2030 and 2035, growth is projected 7 times. Can we do that because it says that from 0.2% of the share of hydrogen in total energy, we're going to get to 1 and a half percent and we're going to increase 6 and 7 times since we have 70 megawatts there in 2030, and in 2035 we have 480 megawatts in the tables. Now, can we do that, if that's really real here, please later for an explanation of when you're finally going to look back at what we've been exposed here. I have to admit, it's actually very optimistic. In order to support this a little bit with figures that are currently available both in Europe and in our country to create a simple picture of our position compared to other countries, I will only mention the fact that we currently have 3054 electric cars in Croatia, and in 2021, 176 276 new cars were sold in Norway, of which 114 579 were electric. So 65% of them were electric. 22% were plows and hybrids, so 38780 and only 4% were registered gasoline and diesels. We know which picture is with us, and I'm afraid that we're going to have a hard time turning it around in such a short time, and in particular this is unclear, this one over there in these tables because after 2035, it means after 2035 all new cars that are sold in the EU must be carbon neutral, so they have to be driven either by electricity or hydrogen, which would mean that we actually have 13 years of time and that after 13 years of time, they shouldn't sell cars with diesel and petrol engines after 13 years. So here I once again ask for that 7% increase is it really real, is it real because that's really a lot. I don't know if we're going to be able to withdraw that much funding, and I don't know if we're going to make it, and in such a short time, because we're currently planning that by 2030, we're going to have 15 hydrogen chargers, which is actually KPI if it's there... so it says there's an impact assessment, so our goal is that we really have these 15 chargers and that we have them. It would also refer to some of the exhibitions that we had on the board yesterday, given that it would be good for other parliamentary representatives to hear it because it was a very good debate, and I think it is important to mention that for our country which has about 35% of the production of electricity from renewable energy that we must think about saving excess energy and that hydrogen is one of the most favourable renewable energy sources. But we also have to start with that right away, if we were to postpone it for a few more years I think we'd have a hard time doing that, and that's what the secretary and the secretary were saying on the board as soon as possible without any major delay going in that direction. The fact is that hydrogen is more dangerous than natural gas, I didn't realize the answer you gave to your colleague when she asked you a question about natural gas or the replacement of natural gas for hydrogen. I realize it can't be 1:1, but is it possible to inject those 10% into natural gas and then use it to heat households with existing installations? That would also beg the answer because I realized that you can't replace 1:1, but I don't know if this injection of 10% that you said was appropriate and that it can be used as such. So we know that it is more dangerous than natural gas, that special storage conditions are needed, that it is especially necessary for education to be included in this education and, of course, without colleges and other institutions owned by the state without it, I don't think that two organizations dealing with hydrogen are going to be able to advance in the part of education. I'm not going to talk about potential new technologies that were mentioned yesterday for hydrogen production as fourth-generation nukes, but we need to be aware that technology is developing very quickly in this area and that we're going to have really big challenges ahead of us so that we can realise this without any major problems. Since if we go into one technology, and she changes in a few years what we've done? We need to make a smart plan on how to implement it and actually spend as little money as possible. We must be guided by, of course, scientific research mentioned by a colleague of mine earlier, without scientists and their research and their knowledge, we will not get far, but we must also manage trends in the world and Europe. And it is extremely important that we move quickly with new technologies in the area of production, transport, storage and use of hydrogen because too long waiting will lead us to a situation that is lagging behind the region, and in particular we are lagging behind Europe and the world. We also have a picture that I found when I was getting ready for filling stations that are much higher in Europe, but countries are bigger, they have more advanced technologies and they use it so that they have different programs. I hope that we will be on track, given that the strategy mentions the European strategy for the development of filling stations or the positioning of chargers, so that we can also be able to participate well in that part of the strategy. I've already asked a question about whether it's made contact with local and regional self-government. We will have to answer this strategic question wisely because we will have to respond to the challenges of transport especially during the tourist season and that will be long before we have enough cars for that number of chargers planned by 2025 and 2027. Let's not forget, and this time dimension means we're bringing a strategy by 2050. That's almost 30 years, and that's where everything and everything's gonna happen. In particular, new technologies will be developed and it should be kept in mind that the strategy that is brought to such a long period must be broad, must be inclusive, must include everything that will happen in the future because if we remain on foreign technologies, we must have some good plan so that we can implement it later and to achieve good conditions. What I still wanted to mention is what was mentioned on the board yesterday, which is that we try to take care of the intermodel traffic model so that they also position those chargers in those areas where we could unite highways, railways, airports and seaports. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99188	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99189	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Yesterday we also discussed this strategy on the board, what is the fact is that it is at EU level, and especially at Croatia level, so that it is new technologies that are still in place and still at the stage of research on the possibility of application. I'd like to look first at some of the thesis brought here by my colleagues. One level of skepticism that always occurs in monitoring and implementation of the Green Plan of the EU is why Croatia is and whether Croatia has to and we are small and we do not contribute much to pollution, etc., and then at the same time the same colleagues are calling on scientists engineers as someone who will solve the problem with climate change that we have. Scientists engineers for 30 years not to speak but to say it's about time. And that what awaits us by 2050, especially after 2050, if, by teaching the exploitation of fossil fuels in the way that we have today, and if we continue with the concept of linear economy as we today have, that mankind simply will not survive. And again here we hear in the debate of the planet, the planet, the planet. The planet will survive. The green plan and the fight against climate change is not the first place to save the planets, but you people because the planet will survive as it is. Climate change endangers human survival as a species. And then when I hear that level of skepticism or that some believe in the panacea that engineers, scientists will come up with a likfix. They'll come up with a likfix and we'll solve it, and we'll solve that climate change. This is, for example, one of the thesis that passes between the so-called so-called. By geoengineering, by geoengineers, we'll work out carbon captures and we'll sort it out. Nobody asks how that carbon capture would work and how much it costs and what kind of technology it is. So it's quite amazing that in 2022, and after all the reports of the international climate panel, for climate change that recently warned about the growing climate change, we have people who express a certain skepticism. But let's get back to hydrogen. So, I said yesterday and I really stand by to think that in the hydrogen strategy our key strategy should be a matter of investment in research, development and technology transfer. For the reason that this is where Croatia can be positioned, where we have human resources, we even have the scientific infrastructure that we can use and that my colleague Urša Raukar will later talk about and where we can finally not be the last but perhaps in some things be among the first. I have to say that the investments we got the answer for today, at which level are 160 million kuna if I understand you well, when we talk about the development of new technology, when we're talking about research that needs to be done in that 160 million kuna field, unfortunately, is little. It seems a lot, but any investment in R&D new technologies that were below billions of kuna, any euro even are small investments. I mean, I understand that maybe at this point we can't have a bigger one. When we look at the perspective of hydrogen, then, it is estimated that the European hydrogen energy economy, or market in 2050, should reach a value of 140 billion euros, thus heading right towards the green hydrogen or hydrogen produced from renewable sources, would be the source of energy. We consider it a positive step to focus on the development of renewable or green hydrogen because it is considered to be the only climate and ecologically acceptable form since it is produced from renewable sources. Other forms such as gray or blue are certainly not acceptable in the long term because in most cases they are used based on fossil fuels or nuclear energy and expensive carbon captures for their production. So what's crucial here for us is that we also take into account the price of technology and energy needed for that technology and possibly whether we're using technology that still allows CO2 and methane to run out, which is the problem of all forms of hydrogen based on fossil fuels. So, as far as renewable hydrogen itself is concerned at this point, we think it would be good to view it as part of the circular economy. The strategy that we have ahead of us in some parts points out, but in general we don't actually see that the economy is based on hydrogen represented as a circular economy. But it's still actually in this, in this strategy hydrogen is treated in some parts as a substitute for fossil fuels, but the economy that rests on it as an economy is busines as usual that we've had so far. And we generally see it as a problem in the green-left block. So it's not enough, it's not enough to replace, replace the resources from which we produce energy. It is important whether we change the concept on which the economy is based because if and if in advance in this strategy we accept that hydrogen as a resource is the same tool of geopolitical influences, we treat it exclusively as goods on the market and we view it exclusively through the prism of market values we will end up in the same model as we were with fossils. So I've asked here today that if we're going towards hydrogen as a element of the circular economy does that mean that we're changing some existing strategies, for example, the waste management strategy, because if we were to say right now we're going towards hydrogen technology, we want to work among other things, and the hydrogen from the waste, then the whole concept of waste management technology based on mechanical-biological processing, we have to replace it if we go in that direction, and that's my strategy, when you say okay, we're going towards it, which means that in the next 5 years. The new waste management centres will no longer have an MBO, they will have another technology. New technologies are being developed that use high temperature hydrolysis in which, for example, you get 45 to 75% depending on the purity of the waste that goes inside hydrogen, maybe we want to, but then we have to change other strategies as well. The consultation also highlighted the importance of investing in hydrogen-prepared technologies because once hydrogen is produced it must undergo processing in order to lead to a condition suitable for transport or end-use. Therefore, in the case of a system such as gas pipelines or hydrogen pipelines, the produced hydrogen must be additionally pressured on pressures up to 50 bars or up to 800 bars in the case of chargers. So, given that, of course, this contributes and the final price of hydrogen of that technology should also be taken into account, and it seems to me that we are not here in the strategy probably because it was sufficient and knowledge and any information on how to analyze what these are, what things are in the preparation of hydrogen that we should initially invest in and in which technologies we need to initially invest in, for example, 2030. So another thing I wanted to point out is that the current replacement of coal or gas production is renewable sources. I'm sorry, I didn't see the time, I'm sorry. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99190	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99191	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing our hydrogen strategy until 2050, and in July 2020. The European Commission has presented a strategy for Europe, a hydrogen strategy for climate neutral Europe, which highlights the importance of hydrogen in decarbonising Europe and the potential that hydrogen and hydrogen technologies can have for the EU economy. According to the EU, the hydrogen strategy for the first period of 2020 to 2024. The strategic objective is to enable the installation of at least 6 gigawatts of electricisers with up to a million tonnes of renewable hydrogen. Today in Europe, it's about 1 gigawatt. In the second phase, between 2025 and 2030. hydrogen should become an integral part of the integrated energy system, with the strategic objective of installing the performance of at least 40 gigawatts to produce up to 10 million tonnes of renewable hydrogen. We know that at this point we do not have any public hydrogen charger in the Republic of Croatia, so commercial and no hydrogen-registered vehicle is registered, but in line with the European Hydrogen hydrogen strategy, part of the Croatian economy has already begun to show interest in developing hydrogen technologies, and a strategic document is needed which will clearly show the direction of the development of hydrogen technologies in the Republic of Croatia. This strategy, which is before us, provides a framework for the production and use of hydrogen with a focus on renewable hydrogen as a substitute for fossil fuels and an increase in the stability of the electricity system based on renewable sources, all for the purpose of energy self-sufficiency and transition to clean energy, and sustainable mobility. The annual consumption of total energy in the Republic of Croatia is about 100 terawatt hours, of which approximately 50% is waste on energy imports. Part of the imported energy is going to waste on electricity. Croatia according to NPOO '21-'26. plans to join 1500 megawatts of new renewable energy sources into the energy system. Also in accordance with the energy strategy, Croatia plans to build around 2500 megawatts of installed power by 2030. in order to ensure the production of clean energy. The potential of hydrogen in Croatia is now derived from the potential of renewable electricity generation, which can provide adequate and long-term production of renewable hydrogen. However, in order to establish a hydrogen-based economy and promote production itself, hydrogen demand and a distribution system should be ensured to ensure that the hydrogen produced is delivered to end-users. The strategy itself defines in detail the main guidelines for the development of a hydrogen-based economy. The first production, second storage and transport, the third use of hydrogen and the fourth, and perhaps the most important education, research and innovation where it is elaborated how to ensure the development and commercialisation of new technologies in the production of renewable hydrogen, and how to ensure safe use and transport of hydrogen, which, in the case of hydrogen, is absolutely inescapable. The definition of objectives in the strategy itself may be best seen in a table view where the strategic objective of increasing the production of renewable hydrogen is, so at this point we have zero, 2030. 70 megawatts and 2050. 2750 megawatts from the electrolyser. The increase in the potential of renewables to produce renewable hydrogen, so the share of hydrogen in energy now has zero. 2030. 0.2%, and 2050. 11%. And the increase in hydrogen use if we look through the charger number now we have zero, 2030. 15 and 2050. 100 chargers. In order to ensure the rapid establishment of a hydrogen-based economy, it is necessary to interest the scientific and economic sectors for stronger interference in hydrogen-related economic activities. Efforts should be made to raise awareness to the general public in the role that hydrogen can play in decarbonising the economy and show that it is a technology that is safe and adequate for wide application. It is also necessary to implement hydrogen in parallel with a number of other clean technologies that are not hydrogen competition but are actually complementary. The best example is public urban transport where hydrogen and electric vehicles must be combined with batteries in the promotion of clean vehicles. In order to realise, it is also necessary to adopt the necessary legislative framework in order to meet the objectives set by the strategy. In order to establish a hydrogen-based economy, significant investments are also needed in all sectors of production, promotion and promotion of new technologies, research, storage and transport of hydrogen to the use of hydrogen in transport, such as charging facilities and vehicles, of course and industry. The macro-economic impact assessment was carried out for two development scenarios defined by the strategy. The first scenario, in line with the climate neutrality scenario, implies installing the capacity of the electric converters in the period up to 2050 to 2750 megawatts. We also have a second scenario based on assumptions of the accelerated development of a hydrogen-based economy, and during that same time period, it involves installing an electrician capacity of 7328 megawatts. In accordance with these objectives, as defined for each of these scenarios, an estimated number of investments are required, i.e. to realise these necessary facilities for hydrogen production. Investments include this first 23.8 billion kuna, and in this second 70.2 billion kuna. So it depends on what's going to happen to us because this is a 28-year-old period and we're going to adapt, so these investments can go from 23 to 70 billion kuna maximum. In addition to what is important for hydrogen production, the strategy also provides for the installation of a table of chargers for hydrogen-powered vehicles. It is estimated that for that infrastructure up to 2050, capital investments amounting to nearly 1.5 billion kuna are needed. In particular, it is important to provide grants during the first years of implementation of hydrogen-related projects, given that it is relatively new non-commercial technology and is directly targeted at decarbonisation. For most of the necessary funds, EU funding sources should be used, whether investment in capital costs or operational costs related to the production of renewable hydrogen, while part of the funds must also be provided from national resources. We've heard a lot of stories here that at this point we're falling into this strategy, because it's still commercial at this point not acceptable. The commercialization of hydrogen itself is also linked to the development of technology. Of course, it is also related to the mass serial production of equipment, which is what those for hydrogen production, and what the production of the vehicles themselves is about buses, personal vehicles, or freight vehicles. If everyone around us is now preparing for this commercialization that will come in five, ten, fifteen, twenty-eight years, and we don't bring a strategy and go into it, then in five, ten, or fifteen years, someone will call us again why we didn't do it at this point. So in order to go the same way as countries in our environment and those who, perhaps much more at the moment, invest in the development of technology the first prerequisite and the first step is to actually bring this strategy to the fort for 28 years to be ready for anything that will happen in the field of hydrogen, i.e. transport and use of hydrogen, of course, and the use of renewable energy sources to produce these hydrogen. For all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99192	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99193	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question in the replica of the Secretary of State was whether the ministry proposed by law and whether the government had adopted and published a report on the state of security of energy supply and expected needs and whether this report was the basis for this strategy, the hydrogen strategy until 2050. Of course, neither the Ministry nor the Government has ever brought or published this report, and we draw a strategy for the use of hydrogen. The question arises on what grounds if we don't know the basis? And that's not bad, but it's great to think about all the alternatives to fossil energy and especially energy from imports. But we must be careful and not allow the alternative to be converted into additional use of fossil fuels and import fuels. So we will never turn to Croatian interests and available and sufficient green energy. In this sense, in this version of the document it is missed to say clearly and unequivocally that in Croatia only green hydrogen production must be encouraged. the one obtained from renewable energy sources. When developing the use of new energy sources, and this hydrogen certainly is the country that declares green transition should not refrain from an unequivocal attitude to reduce the use of fossil fuels nor from refusing to produce fossil fuel hydrogen. In contrast, the country's commitment to green transition is false and represents a capitulation of citizens in front of interesting areas that want to further promote the use of fossil fuels, fossil fuel infrastructure and perhaps further development of exactly such systems. In several places, gray hydrogen is referred to in the strategy itself, and it is dangerous to accept that grey hydrogen will be promoted using the gas network especially if conditions are not created for such use. It is equally necessary to bear in mind that for the purpose of heating houses or buildings with energy produced from one grey hydrogen unit, double the energy units of natural gas should be invested. In particular, if over 200 natural gas energy units are to be achieved, more than 100 units of energy should be invested. So what did we do about the green transition? Nothing at all. We have made it possible to use gas in the new inefficient production of heat energy and, of course, increased the share of fossil fuels, the use of fossil fuels themselves. The fact that the existing gas network is impossible to transmit only renewable hydrogen, but only a plan or mixture of gas and hydrogen, and with a very small hydrogen ratio, it is said that the strategy primarily refers to the promotion of exactly gray rather than renewable green hydrogen. With green hydrogen and those produced from renewable energy sources where we insist, except that we do not increase the use of fossil fuels, we also achieve a greater efficiency of production because using adequate technology for 100 units of energy of useful heat it is necessary to invest 129 units of electricity produced from e.g. Solara. In addition, if the system only uses a heat lift to power 100 units of useful heat, only 33 power units should be invested again, for example. from the solar system. Hydrogen technology is a desirable solution for Croatia anyway. It needs to be encouraged and included in all development systems, but it is dangerous and unnecessary to use it to promote and quietly push fossil fuels. In this way, we have achieved nothing because we have only found a new platform for additional dependence on fossil fuels that we so gladly give up. Due to the fact that the production of green or hydrogen from renewable energy sources is extremely expensive, and therefore the product is more realistic to focus attention on replacing coal or gas production by renewable sources. In particular, I stress the need for intensive investment in civil energy or the use of funds collected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through the compensation for renewable energy sources by subsidising the installation of solar panels on roofs and in the gardens, the installation of heat lifts, renovations to increase energy efficiency, the exploitation of waste heat, geothermal energy, etc., but with the simultaneous adjustment of legislation, I am talking about the Law on the electricity market and the Law on renewable energy sources in a way that puts citizens in a position to stimulate production and energy and its sharing within energy communities or in a public network under favourable conditions. Can citizens, when it comes to hydrogen and energy communities, for example be owners of electricisers and can be provided for example. that energy surpluses produced from renewable energy sources are handed over to produce green civil hydrogen? Or is the strategy written only for the big ones who can afford it and thus increase their profits? Or tomorrow, as in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, will the funds be deployed for large projects without leaving much to civil energy? If you're looking at rebuilding buildings then there's some means for citizens, but that's not encouraging the production and use of renewable energy sources. And if strategies are written only for certain companies and agencies, then it does not lead to some democratisation of energy and transition towards clean, safe and affordable energy for citizens but favours the profits of certain companies. Why not pay for electrolysers and chargers instead of or other than hydrogen capture and storage technology, i.e. something that is closer to the citizens and can be used on their part. Here I also use the opportunity to express the surprise that from the long announced measures to help citizens because of the inflationary pressure in which HEP should have given its pain to a total lack of pain, and this same HEP continues to charge various parafiscal charges in terms of various fees. The fee for renewable energy sources to a citizen who is sneezing a roof, which cannot warm his home, which spends a day walking in public spaces so that he does not have to include overheating is a shower. I call on HEP to stop clapping citizens and to abolish the compensation for renewable energy sources on their own accounts anyway. I call on HEP and to explain to the citizens what the rain is for which it provides electricity for the next 5 years today when the electricity prices from imports are 550% higher than they were in March 2021, and so far, electricity has been supplied for just a year. I also call on Minister Coric to answer my written parliamentary question on the spending of HEP's public funds in favour of the private company. It can also explain why simple questions are not answered. But to return to the Hydrogen Strategy, what should be the goal and energy strategy of Croatia and all the reference strategies is to reduce dependence on natural gas and gas systems and ultimately energy self-sufficiency. However, we open a vicious cycle of addiction with these unspeakable strategies. Of course, I call, we welcome the positive role of renewable hydrogen that can be highlighted in a segment relating to the transition of that sector in which no electrification is possible. There is also mentioned the transport sector, especially trains or railways that use hydrogen in trains where there is no electricity and of course in the industry. However, since hydrogen production is extremely expensive and scarce, the use of renewable hydrogen should be directed locally. Large hydrogen infrastructure projects are just a front for prolonging gas use and supporting the gas lobby. Neglecting and disabling the development of civil energy while accumulate financial resources by reaching into citizens' pockets in order to maintain the status quo in the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia is a strategy that does not put public interest first. That is why the SDP Club is asking for the strategy to be corrected and founded on a realistic basis and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You can start by respecting the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the Energy Act and draft and publish a report on security of supply, energy supply and, of course, assessment, and security in the next 5 to 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99194	The next Club of Representatives will be the one For a Fair Croatia, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99195	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So the energy transition represents a transformation of the global energy sector with fossil fuel-based energy towards low-carbon energy. The key need for transition is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector and transport sectors to slow down climate change. But while the global transition is already under way, further steps are needed to mitigate the effects caused by climate change. Many countries as well as some political organisations have introduced legislative frameworks and development strategies to further boost energy transition. One such strategy presented by the European Commission in 2019 is also the European Green Plan, which includes measures to improve resource efficiency by switching to a clean or circular economy, and to stop climate change and reduce pollution. The demand for hydrogen is expected to rise in the coming years as a result of stricter environmental regulation. The rise in hydrogen demand has also been affected by refinery processing, which is increasingly exploiting residual raw materials and increasing demand for diesel fuel. Hydrogen is also used intensively in the iron and steel industry, as well as for the hydrogenation of fat, glass production, fuel and cooling of generators. Hydrogen can be produced in large specially designed energy production facilities and transported to demand centres. This model would allow the development of large wind power plants and solar power plants, as well as other types of renewable energy sources such as hydroenergy, and geothermally depending on the potential of resources in a given space. It is also possible to use the unused capacity of the transmission network if the electrolyser is connected to the hydrogen network system to be produced in periods of low energy prices in daily fluctuations on the market or continuously with the existence of an electricity purchase contract. In the first case production takes place during low and medium energy prices, a certain part of the hours of production will also take place during high energy prices, which will affect the increase in hydrogen production prices. In the case of continuous production, the overall efficiency of the process is increased and the price of hydrogen production is reduced, but this method of production reduces the flexibility of the energy system. It is also assumed that the cost of fees for CO2 emissions to US $200 per tonne by 2050. With such developments up to 2040. All forms of hydrogen production from renewable energy sources should achieve price competence with fossil fuel hydrogen production. International market and transport of hydrogen can be considered, can be considered to be similar to natural gas, and there will likely be a need to transport hydrogen at high distances. As well as natural hydrogen gas due to physical properties, it is necessary to compromise or ingest for transport or chemical conversion purposes to create ammonia methanol or some other organic liquid hydrogen transporter which would result in a certain loss of energy. The most perspective forms of transport are currently ingested hydrogen, and the synthesis into ammonia by crackling into hydrogen at the destination site. Transport in the form of methylhexane is also a potential option, but it is currently pricelessly incompetent with the alternatives mentioned above. Mixing hydrogen with natural gas can significantly contribute to a global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions if hydrogen is produced using low-carbon energy sources such as solar energy, wind energy, binomase energy. The positive effects resulting from the addition of green hydrogen to the natural gas network are a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions if hydrogen is produced from renewable energy sources, then hydrogen in the automotive industry, it is, therefore, a potential positive effect of reducing fossil fuel consumption and improving air quality by reducing the share of sulphur oxide, nitrogen, nitrogen oxide and particle emissions, then using a mixture of natural gas and hydrogen in existing electricity and heat production devices is similar to increasing the share of renewable energy sources in electricity production. The short-term impact of hydrogen from renewable energy sources on the pipeline network represents a potential improvement in economics. In the long term, this can represent a way to store renewable energy and also decarbonise the gas industry. A key advantage of this so-called. Five two G systems over electricity is the fact that hydrogen can be stored in significant quantities in the long term. This would allow the system to be balanced during a change in demand for example during the winter. Given the very high capacity of the gas network in Europe, even the low share of hydrogen mixing would mean the absorption of a significant amount of variable renewable energy. In the EU alone, the amount of energy stored in methane contained in the pipeline network is around 1200 terawatt hours, which is about one fifth of the total natural gas demand in Europe. The optimal concentrations of hydrogen interference depend significantly on the characteristics of the existing gas network, the composition of natural gas and the method of end-use. Most of the existing studies show that mixing hydrogen with natural gas at concentrations of up to 20% does not require major investment or modification of infrastructure, and can be done in a relatively safe manner. The most critical type of infrastructure is gas turbines, underground warehouses, compressor stations, and tanks. For example, five percent hydrogen concentration in a mixture of compressed natural gas reduces the minimum ignition energy of the mixture by 28% and increases the flame rate in atmospheric conditions by 2.5 times. In this case, the gas flow and gas numbers of the household also require adjustment and modification. Mixing hydrogen concentrations greater than 20% would require significant changes in infrastructure and final devices. In some cases, a more economic scenario would be the transformation of complete infrastructure and equipment for working with clean hydrogen at local or regional level. In accordance with the conclusions resulting from the results of certain pipeline tests, it has been established that there is a reasonable possibility of using the pipeline for the transport of gas hydrogen because the pipeline has undergone a pressure test and a metallographic test which has shown that no cracks, micro cavityes or fractures have occurred in the microstructure of the material. However, the reduction in the value of the toughness and hardness test results disprove the safe use of the pipeline. In order for the pipeline to be safe for use in the transport of hydrogen, different tests should be carried out, so that the metalographic, then the hardness tests, the toughness tests and the necessary tests remain on representative samples of the pipelines themselves. The safety of the use of hydrogen gas pipelines is linked to the risk of incineration and explosion of a mixture of methane and hydrogen. It has been found that by adding low levels of hydrogen, up to 20% in existing pipelines, there is a relatively small increase in the risk of inflammation. The duration of material of some steel pipes may be shortened by exposure to hydrogen over longer periods, especially at high hydrogen concentrations and high pressure. Almost all natural gas transport pipes, so coastal and land-based pipes are made of carbon steel on which cathode protection against corrosion is applied. Hydrogen represents a great potential in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and slowing down global warming due to the fact that hydrogen burns as fuel without harmful emissions. However, it is important to stress that in this context it is green hydrogen, i.e. hydrogen produced by the use of renewable energy sources. Blue hydrogen can also play a significant role in the transition to a sustainable form of economy, but it should be borne in mind that limited financial resources can limit the development of fully renewable fuels and energy sources. The key to the progress of green hydrogen technology is research and development towards electrolysers and fuel articles. Electrics and fuel articles are technology of paramount importance and need to be developed to improve their economy of use. The challenges in this regard are to justify the work of electricisers throughout the year, given the variable availability of renewable energy sources, and cheap electricity from the electricity system, and the problem of ineffectiveness due to multiple energy transformations to a special so-called. Five two G2 systems. The economic analysis of the production of blue and green hydrogen shows that, by 2040, the price competitiveness of green hydrogen with hydrogen produced from fossil fuels could be achieved, but with certain assumptions of developments such as the collection of emission allowances Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99196	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99197	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable representatives of the motionors, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. One of today's top priorities is to build a climate-resistant future, and the Republic of Croatia joined as a member of the EU towards achieving climate neutrality by 2050. In recent years, therefore, we have been making significant efforts to decarbonise the energy sector and the economy as a whole. Here we are today the Water Strategy until 2050, which gives us an indicative opportunity to develop production, storage, storage, transport and generally use of hydrogen with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions. Today I'm going to look a little bit closer to traffic. The use of alternative fuels especially hydrogen in the transport sector would result in a number of positive effects on the health of our citizens and the environment. In order to allow hydrogen to be introduced as a new energy carrier in the transport sector, we also need adequate sub-legal regulation, in particular as regards new standards relating to hydrogen, new technologies in production and consumption. We need to build an adequate infrastructure for the production, distribution and supply of hydrogen, and we also need to encourage the purchase of vehicles, ships, trains that use hydrogen as fuel to monitor and produce hydrogen. This hydrogen-only strategy shows seriousness in order to achieve CO2 reduction targets, which will allow for more active integration of the Republic of Croatia into the processes and projects related to hydrogen at European level. Currently, hydrogen plays a minor role in the overall supply of energy in the EU, which is about 2% and by 2050. 20% of hydrogen energy is expected from 50% in transport. Today's challenges in terms of costs are certainly high, production modes, necessary infrastructure and security, however, green hydrogen produced from renewable sources is expected to contribute to climate neutrality in the long term. Hydrogen-related technologies have been developing at high speed for the last ten years. The current calculations are that even certain contexts of hydrogen production and use have already experienced a sustainable cost-effective solution for decarbonising some of the most... economic sectors, such as transport, but certainly heavy industry because large quantities of heat are needed, of course, with high temperatures. The estimate is that by 2030. The renewable hydrogen is priced to be competitive with hydrogen produced from fossil fuels. We aim to ensure that hydrogen demand is growing and that renewable hydrogen production is sufficient for all needs of the Republic of Croatia, of course, taking into account the potential and export of renewable hydrogen to countries in a wider environment. In order to achieve this objective, it is important to ensure the development and promotion of additional renewable electricity capacity, new hydrogen production technologies and to establish quality inter-resorship cooperation means all sectors of the economy from agriculture, waste management, energy, transport, etc. Given our geopolitical content in the long term, Croatia could also be expected to position as point of entry for the transport and transport of hydrogen to other countries. It is therefore very important to encourage the development of innovation projects related to new renewable hydrogen production technologies. However, these processes of moving from fossil fuels to the use of hydrogen as energy must be competitive and coordinated. Transport is a prerequisite for mobility and exchange of goods and must meet both the needs of the population and the economy, so we need to enable further development of transport with a reduction of dependence on oil. We've got technology going on, hydrogen can be introduced into all segments of traffic. Today here are ultra-light fuel articles, hydrogen tanks that can be used in the aviation industry and drones. Today there are vehicles in the serial production of hydrogen cars, buses, trucks, and I think this use of hydrogen to start in public urban transport would greatly improve the quality of air in our cities because we know that the city's population is the most exposed to air pollution. Of course, maritime and river transport also has great potential for hydrogen use. It is important to note that the level of CO2 emissions of the economic sectors such as energy production and industry since 1990. decreases, and the level of emissions produced by transport has increased. Here I am convinced that the adoption of this strategy will contribute to our goal, which is to allow the development of hydrogen as a fuel for the future, and in order to achieve ambitious climate objectives, all stakeholders of the relevant resolutions must contribute to this transition. Anyway, I want to say to support the adoption of this strategy. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99198	Thank you very much. Dear representative Zmaic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99199	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Ćosic in our Brod-Posavina County has long been talking about the construction of a gas power plant in Slavonski Brod, and this project is one of the projects that is very important and important for development and economy in our county and in the wider area. How much do I know the excess energy that could not be sold would be used to produce hydrogen, so here's why I'm asking you if you have any higher information in which phase is our gas power plant construction project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99200	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99201	Thank you very much for asking. Well, here you have said yourself that for a long time there's been talk of this project, what as far as I know well is that this project hasn't stopped, that it's been updated and that it's going towards its realization. So it would be a gas power plant that would cover self-exploitation of energy both the needs of the Republic of Croatia and the surrounding countries, and that electricity it couldn't sell in those times when electricity was not required would produce hydrogen. By heating that turbine, they also get CO2 which they would capture by special facilities, compromise and lead the pipeline into oil and gas wells in Eastern Croatia and deposit it there into geological structures, which would ultimately mean that this hydrogen is without CO2 being noticed to be green hydrogen. It's important. and one strategic economic facility for... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99202	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99203	Dear colleague Ćosic, you said hydrogen is considered fuel for the future in all transport, road, rail, sea and air. But my question is what do you think should give priority to what research, development, and application should first focus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99204	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99205	Thank you very much for asking. Well, my thinking certainly is that hydrogen has a wide range of applications, it can also be used in light vehicles in a gas form, but here we have developed batteries and that part of the already industry and it's moving. Certainly with those transports where I need to say a lot of energy, so I should have one locomotive to pull the batteries, so... these batteries are filling up and everything, and I think hydrogen is much more suitable for those parts or I don't know about the ferry, for the big boats, the transports either to the island and back, and beyond where it means we have a large amount of cargo and it needs a large amount of energy. Hydrogen is a good solution because we have these fuel cells that are really light where one hydrogen chemical process gets electricity and it's safer for transport. So in all those where you need a significant amount of energy certainly hydrogen is welcome in the railroad where we have electricity we don't need to develop hydrogen in that part, but certainly where we don't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99206	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99207	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. Only a concrete and productive economy can adapt to the challenges of global change, but also offer an opportunity. And as we come from the same city, I see an opportunity in this strategy. I see the opportunity in Đuro Đaković company because for the second and third phases of this strategy, it is necessary to create adequate underground capacities, i.e. hydrogen tanks. The second chance is our Faculty of Engineering because for the development of the economy will be borne by our scientific community. So here are these strategies that are on our table, of course, we can develop an economy in our local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99208	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99209	Thank you very much, colleague. Of course, for the transition to hydrogen as fuel, the dominant fuel this is certainly one long-term process that we have all established today, but we should also work so that we are interested in both science and the economy to take an interest in this sector and to move our projects to that part as soon as we can, with our own innovations. I must say that Djuro Djakovic, although he has been in great difficulty lately, has been involved in the production of alternative energy through cogeneration means through this section so that this technology in Đura already exists. As far as I know, our university, but Djuro Djakovic is not involved in hydrogen technology unless someone is doing some work there, but we certainly need to interest our universities and Djura Djakovic to get involved in these processes because big money is provided for this, and of course we get new industries and new jobs in our environment, but also in all Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99210	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as transport is concerned, a large part of the focus lies on the transport of heavy loads, not on private vehicles. The EU believes that hydrogen trucks will have a significant market share after 2030 began testing trucks on the road to decarbonise road transport. The commission specifically called in 2022, where they launched a demonstration topic of demand for 150 trucks on the road. This has never been done before, and what I'm interested in is whether you think such a form of funding and testing can be a springboard, possibly according to the mass introduction of hydrogen into road traffic by 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99212	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99213	Thank you for asking, of course he can and that's what's necessary. The intensity of Europe is certainly to transfer a good part and most of the traffic from roads to this railway, the waterways which is, they are quite smaller contaminants and of course using these new technologies trucks that drive on hydrogen would not be pollutants, and we need to be aware of the fact that we cannot rule out road traffic to a certain extent by no means by road because we have short supplies, we have fast supplies for what is needed, which requires truck transport and road traffic. So this one is definitely this one, testing and saying the production of these trucks is good, good to say the job that the EU is doing because road traffic as much as we want cannot be completely excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99214	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear state secretaries with counterparts, therefore, Croatia should join the advanced EU countries that plan to develop and apply their own hydrogen technologies to help achieve the EU's green targets more concretely. I believe that we here will all agree that science is a crucial wheel of stoppers to every new technology. In this strategy in the chapter of the strategic guidelines of the 4 strategic guidelines, the last fourth, and I think it should be the first, if not the zero, is education, research and innovation. Therefore, ensuring the development and commercialisation of new technologies in the production of renewable hydrogen and its safe use and transport. The establishment of a regional hydrogen centre which will obtain appropriate equipment and coordinate the procurement of equipment for testing fuel articles and electrolysers, as well as the development of production, transport and use of hydrogen and carry out research with a view to further commercialisation. Employees and co-workers of this centre from all scientific institutions in Croatia and from the region, so experts in the area of hydrogen technologies will conduct additional education of existing engineers who want to upgrade knowledge and engage in the development of hydrogen technologies. That's what the strategy says. Therefore, the elemental logic suggests that this important strategic goal and the establishment of a regional hydrogen centre should be irrevocably linked to the Brodar Institute. In the scientific community there is and is presented in this round table assembly at 11 months last year with proposals for concrete steps to transform the Brodar Institute into a national technical institute that, along with maritime technologies, could develop in its expertise and activities in related areas such as hydrogen, electromobility, energy storage and the like. Thus, the scientific community has already stressed the need for research and development of hydrogen technologies before the publication of this strategy and logically seen the solution in the transformation of the Brodar Institute into a national technical institute. The question is why start a new hydrogen center when we already have an existing resource, laboratory and archival and human that just needs to be restructured and run. The scientific community has made concrete proposals on how the process can be implemented within months. All it takes is a political decision. So, it's not complicated, it's not demanding, there's no property legal dd, there's no big financial investment, there's only a political decision of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and everything can be implemented and realised through literally a few months and thus begin to realise the fourth strategic goal of this strategy. And not just these hydrogen strategies. A new national technical institute within which, of course, a special hydrogen centre would give a really big new momentum to technical sciences in Croatia and the wider region, with an emphasis on green technologies that are crucial in combating climate change. So, to conclude this strategy offers a real opportunity to make a radical turn and finally turn the Government of the Republic of Croatia back with the support of suspicious real estate businesses and that this time 120,000 squares of attractive land in New Zagreb, so that this 120,000 squares will be tied to state strategic projects and ventures that will certainly not achieve their goals without a narrow connection with the great capacities of Croatian science. And we all know that very well. So hydrogen is a great opportunity. This strategy offers on the palm of the possibility and clearly specifies the need to transform the Brodar Institute into a national technical institute and we must really not miss this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99216	We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Ban Vlahek first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99217	The respected colleagues of hydrogen are obviously very attractive in the world today, but also a great opportunity, as you yourself said about the Croatian economy. I think we have a chance at that game just have to be brave, bold and smart. Among these technologies, there is still plenty of room for the development and discovery of new technologies, which opens up opportunities for Croatian companies to create new products and open new markets. Experts, however, point out that the current situation is such for, that Croatian companies are investing in any segment involving green hydrogen cannot be wrong. Among other things, they particularly highlight the possibility of Croatian companies in the equipment manufacturing sector to ensure that Croatia's economy takes off and enters the European and global market stages. However, many of them are skeptical about the fact that Croatia does not stand a chance in this game, so I am also interested in my question to you, do you and do you think Croatia can find its place in the hydrogen energy economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99218	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99219	Thank you. I thank you for asking, I am convinced that Croatia can do this. And that he can absolutely find his place in those perspectives. What is necessary is necessary to change the paradigm. In my opinion what I'm talking about, we'll all agree to the left and right that for the development of technology, for the presentation of technology, for the development of the economy, and all of what you colleagues were talking about is an initial need for a scientific background and a scientific stopper. And I hope so, I firmly believe, I have spoken here four times about Brodarski and I will continue. I firmly believe that this government will recognise the capacities of the Brodar Institute for further technological progress precisely in the green transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99220	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Raukar Gamulin, therefore the biggest current barrier in the use of hydrogen in transport, is the lack of available chargers, overpriced vehicles and poor overall vehicle efficiency in view of other alternative vehicle drives, the non-interest of customers slows down the development of chargers while the weaker development of the chargers deters the potential of customers. Thus, the most important factor in the transition of global economies to renewable energy sources is ultimately economic justification. So I'm interested in the time of the general poverty facing our citizens do you believe in the success of this strategy at least in this part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99222	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99223	Thank you. Yes, I agree that, it's all about funding and then some profit and what's being imposed, and it's not just us that concludes whether it's from the opposition or from the rulings, it's simply a fact. What my colleague Bencic said about science screaming about the need for green transformation. That's because just like she said, the ball will survive, but we won't. And because of this it is not only a question of Croatia that is a question of course and broader and wider communities, I am talking about the EU now, to recognize priorities and to turn things around in this sense and to go on, to that kind of funding and that kind of incentive that will reduce those cost-effectiveness for our citizens because without it, we have no life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99224	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99225	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues here are pointed out in the strategy that inter-resorship cooperation and quality co-operation with regional and local self-government are needed and with regard to the development of a network of car chargers for urban public transport, industry, etc. In addition, the possibility of funding is mentioned, here is the mention of this Horizon Europe programme, where the joint work of scientific institutions, local communities and economic operators would be included. So I want to know what your knowledge of the cooperation and communication is at the level of the Ministry or the City of Zagreb from which you come.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99226	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99227	I thank you for asking. I do not know about the cooperation of the City of Zagreb and the Ministry, but what I do not know, unfortunately, is that of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science, for example, the importance of the Brodar Institute. I will continue to speak very passionately of Brodarski until something happens to this Brodarski. Why? Because all of this again that you've been saying and what other colleagues in replicas have been saying, it's all actually resting on science, and unfortunately our country in the last 30 years. So not enough government administration, government everything, I'm talking about all governments, they didn't recognize enough the importance of science in this, and I think that here in particular, the hydrogen strategy should be linked to the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy precisely in relation to the possibility of developing such a national scientific institute that will be able to implement this strategy in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99228	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99229	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So today, from our debate, part of the opposition acts as if the Republic of Croatia were to adopt and govern our strategy for hydrogen by 2050. It's like he's doing it all with a fig in his pocket. as if we do not intend to carry out any green transition, but we bring all of this clean because we have to, and for this we do not essentially state any real, one real and sustainable reason, but they simply reject a good strategy to be in continuity part of the opposition, yet part of the opposition accepts the positive things of this strategy. What is positive and good is that this strategy is a Croatian hydrogen strategy until 2050. Defined, these are these 4 strategic objectives, production, storage and transport, use, and education, research and innovation, and only the name of strategies means that we have now taken some broad pathway by 2050, we know that after the strategy we are followed by action plans. We have also heard that the action plans will be integrated into the National Climate Energy Plan, which should be audited in 2023, and after that, anything concerning these strategic objectives 4 that I have listed when talking about the production of or the use of ils on transportation and programme, storage and transportation of hydrogen, we will have to further regulate the laws and these laws will be re-adjusted, meaning transparent, clean, clear, we move boldly into the green transition and we are moving in a way that we choose hydrogen in it, and why hydrogen? Well, I can only say what I'm doing first in this layman's way because of its unlimited amount and absolutely pure, pure, pure use. We get hydrogen from one liter of water means the classic electrolysis that we want to be from a renewable energy source, so from a liter of water, I'm sorry, 9 liters of water, we get one, one kilo of hydrogen. Now take this, one kilo of hydrogen can drive a motor vehicle 100 km, so we can go 100 km from one kilo of hydrogen car to fuel. Now let's see what we have right now, and what we'd like to have. Currently, one kilo of hydrogen in Germany if you want to fill it up on the chargers, Germany has 50 hydrogen chargers, in general in Europe 130 chargers, we do not have one in Croatia yet, so on the charge room one kilo of hydrogen costs 9.5 euros, and yesterday in Germany one litre of Eurosuper, in which is Super E-10, so Eurosuper 25 cost 2.08 euros. My car's 11 years old. Dude, he spends 7.2 liters per 100 km, which means that in order to cross 100 kilometers, I'd have to pour gas worth 14.98 euros, and if I had a hydrogen car, I should only pay 9.5 euros. That's today. Well, of course this is all although the EU and the German state subsidized to make the hydrogen price 9.5 euros, but in the future, this strategy until 2050. We also believe that the production itself, the cost of hydrogen production will be reduced, that its usability will be where and where greater than today and that the availability of that hydrogen will be far higher because what we know is needed today for the electrolysis of water to get one kilogram of hydrogen we need from 37 to 53 kilowatt hours of energy. We hope that in the future until 2050. will tribute where and where less energy to get one kilo of hydrogen, on the other hand we believe and the strategy is set to get that energy from renewable energy sources. So this is a good example in practice where, as we move towards a green transition, I believe that, even in this respect, the Republic of Croatia will be a feather in this area, especially in education and research and innovation, because as we have heard, the goal is to establish a regional hydrogen centre that would be the centre of 13 new EU members in Croatia. If you could do it all together by 2050. We'll really have one ecological and green country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99230	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99231	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, strategies are generally good in society, you must have a strategy for anything, of course you should have goals from the strategy and ultimately operational plans. But the experience that we have in general in Croatia, so I am not amnesting anyone here, teaches us that there is always little Croatia glazing about the operationalisation of the strategy itself. Now I have a few questions for you. So, there are already a large number of individuals in the entity business sector who would try, in particular in logistics and transportation, so one part of their business should be transferred to something that should be cheaper, something that should be more sustainable, now the first question here is that one Cost-Benefit analysis of how much it costs, and my main objection is generally in this strategy that maybe a little more prefers grey hydrogen than green hydrogen, I think we should pay a little more attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99232	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99233	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. I disagree with you on the matter of preferring grey hydrogen, no, gray hydrogen is listed as a fact that something has already been exploited and produced for 100 years and will not disappear in the next 30 years. It will still be there, but it will dominantly become a green hydrogen i.e. the one to be obtained from renewable energy sources through classical electrolysis or perhaps new more advanced technologies that science and technological innovation will set up. What is the lack of strategies? I can say they're flawed. They simply cover wide space. We're talking about the future but from the point of view and the settings we have today. It is therefore most likely that hydrogen production will go towards improving the electrolysis process from renewable energy sources. That's why I hope this will work out and that normally we will quality it and follow it with legal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99234	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99235	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Brkan, here we have seen from the strategy that hydrogen can be used as an energy carrier for heating, but also cooling homes either buildings or houses. And it's about the potential that's still developing, but it's expected that fossil fuels will release in the future. As you come from the south of Croatia where in recent years air conditioning is used intensively, which is actually heat cranes using electricity, are used in summer because of the number of accommodation units for tourism, but also in winter for heating the population. I believe that exactly the use of hydrogen for cooling and heating in a way that in summer, electricity is produced from solar energy stored in hydrogen and can be used in summer, but also in winter to warm up homes, and that it is certainly necessary to invest in infrastructure in time that will enable it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99236	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99237	Dear colleagues, I thank you for asking. Look what you said is predicting, among other things, the possibility of being used both in heating and cooling, but unfortunately today this technology is not at this level that it would be worth using hydrogen as an energy source that would again regulate heating and cooling in households. With the development of technology, research, innovation, I hope there will be a moment. But now, according to me and this plan as it is, I need to first focus on what's most ready, meaning the transition of industry to hydrogen drive, hydrogen energy and traffic. I believe by developing technology that there will be opportunities to say how, they can be done by now, but that it will be cost-effective and warm up and cool down on hydrogen energy. Not yet, but here's hoping technology will get there too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99238	Dear Representative Budalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99239	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Brkan, we have recently witnessed a sharp increase in energy prices, uncertainty of market supply and inability to control the price. Renewable energy sources are the future of the development and stability of national and global economies. My question to you. When can it be expected to start production or wide use of hydrogen in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99240	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99241	Thank you. Dear Representative, here's what we could hear earlier, and the Secretary of State extends the scope of the use of hydrogen fuel according to the strategy. It means that by 2026 hydrogen production will be tied to transport and industry. It is then essential to ensure that sufficient quantities of renewable hydrogen are produced in the period until 2030 to serve as raw materials in industrial processes. And after 2030, especially after 2040, demand is assumed to grow and that, accordingly, it will be necessary to ensure that renewable hydrogen production is sufficient for all needs of Croatia. So, generally by 2050, they should have sufficient quantities of produced, sufficiently expanded storage and transport network and also enough users to use it in a renewable way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99242	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99243	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, you mentioned in your speech actually an opposition that rejects strategy. So me and the SDP Club are an opposition that does not reject the strategy but criticises and asks for the strategy to be corrected. You said or mentioned hydrogen obtained by electrolysis and you want it to be from a renewable energy source. So we're asking that you write it in a strategy, both unequivocally and unequivocally and unequivocally, or that it's written by the motionors in the strategy, and that's the basis of our criticism. What I'm interested in is what you think about our proposal to use the excess electricity produced by citizens on their solar plants, so on the roofs in a way that they actually surrender to the network for the production of that green hydrogen. So isn't that the way to encourage civil energy, not punish citizens through this system that we now have where they do the excess electricity produced by producers and have far more unfavourable conditions? and no encouraging conditions of production from renewable sources. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99244	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99245	Dear colleagues, I thank you for asking, and I apologize immediately in the beginning if I misread your views. Yesterday, on the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection related to the Strategy, you were abstentioned during the vote. From today's debate, I realized you'd turn her down. If I'm not glad you support the HDZ government's proposal, thank you very much. Look, as I was saying at the outset, the strategy has put these four strategic goals forward. In my opinion, my personal opinion, and I believe that it is, I think, by the appearance of the Secretary of State, that what you're looking for is more part of the action plan. So the second step of implementation is to define it correctly. Here it now includes everything that exists where we see what happens to the existing ones, and basically what we want from it all. It's certainly getting hydrogen from renewable energy sources. And I think we all want to do it together in our country and we're going to have a consensus there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99246	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99247	Today you presented the information about the price of hydrogen, the price of fossil fuels and the current price ratio when you cross 100 kilometers with your car, but do not forget that only 2% of the hydrogen, 2% of the hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources, are currently available in the EU, everything else is produced both grey hydrogen and blue hydrogen. We must therefore be careful if this hydrogen produced by gray and blue is much cheaper than it will be from renewable energy sources. That's the first thing. The second thing, when we had a discussion yesterday on the board, the secretary actually said that the entire concentration of hydrogen production in Croatia would actually be directed towards green hydrogen. If it's not true, secretary, correct me, but you said it would be as much as possible to produce from renewable energy sources. So we have some space and I think it would be good for Croatia to be here... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99248	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99249	I thank you, Your Honor. That's right, I said what's the current state and that's what hydrogen is filling up on the chargers in Germany isn't all from renewable energy sources. However, precisely because it is not all and is not easy to get, we must take that in 2020 there were 1,000 of all hydrogen-powered cars in Europe, the most sold Toyota Mirai and Hundai Nexo and each of those cars on average cost 77-78,000 euros per piece. These are huge, so the current technology is too expensive and is not available to all citizens and, normally, not from pure renewable energy sources is not desirable, but in the future, in the development of technology, I say to you in reducing the amount of energy needed to get hydrogen clean and increase renewable energy sources. I believe that it will become available and as the only one, impose itself as the only logical choice in the choice of vehicles especially for road transport and maritime road.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99250	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99251	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, of course our goal is to make as much use of renewable energy sources as possible in transport. We've all read quite a lot about the benefits of hydrogen, it's very interesting when we look so little at what the advantages of a car on the water are, so how far is it to drive a Toyota, Nexo, etc., here we even have a better sex interest in it. However,... Yes, but there are, of course, advantages and disadvantages and hydrogen vehicles, but also electric cars, lit batteries, etc., as long as they last, storage etc. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] What do you think we're going to do, where we're going to put some real emphasis, on even more expansion of the network of electric vehicles, electric chargers or somehow speed up the hydrogen strategy and go to as much hydrogen production as possible, or more hydrogen vehicles. We don't have hydrogen nets, but we have some registered hydrogen vehicles, which is more realistic, how are we gonna get to that? Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99252	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99253	Dear colleagues, I thank you for asking, and in fact my answer is going to be to you, my guess, there will be a mixture because look as you said and cars driven by hydrogen through fuel articles are also treated like electric cars, so electric cars. However, I believe that the development of electric cars from now on, on lithium-ion, will continue to develop, the battery will become less and less, the increasing reach of these vehicles. However, the most hydrogen will be used in one where batteries are limited in maritime transport, and I believe in air transport, so maritime transport can definitely not be on longer lines to drive, classic lithium-ion batteries, and that's where hydrogen will take over. I also believe in public transport, in road public transport will also move on, probably to hydrogen, and the plane we just need to see means that it will look like hydrogen technology that will drive air traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99254	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who is gone, who loses his right to speak, and will then speak to the respected representative Ljubica Maksimčuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99255	Thank you very much, President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Hydrogen and hydrogen economies are one of the important elements of green transition, it is applicable in several sectors, and is in line with the decarbonisation of the economy in order to meet the EU's objectives of clean energy and reducing greenhouse gases. All relevant stakeholders involved in this process, as indicated through clear EU guidelines for hydrogen strategies, were also involved in the development of the strategy. All Europeans, including the population of the Republic of Croatia, view climate change as a serious problem, and they are a threat to the existence of Europe and the world. In order to adapt to climate change, the European Green Plan aimed at becoming Europe's first climate neutral continent by 2050 has also been adopted. So, of course, this strategy is on track. This hydrogen strategy is based on our national development strategy and the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. It has 4 strategic objectives, such as increasing the production of renewable hydrogen, storage, storage and transport of hydrogen, which implies the re-use of existing infrastructure for transport from place of production to place of consumption, increasing the use of hydrogen and under 4 encouraging the development of science, research and development of hydrogen technologies. The Republic of Croatia is making significant efforts to decarbonise the energy sector and the economy, and we have also witnessed this through various legal solutions that we have discussed here in HS. To achieve one of the preconditions is electricity infrastructure. I'll look back on the decarbonisation area in the transport sector. In the EU's total greenhouse gas transport sector, there is a 25% share of which 70% of the pollution comes from road traffic. Since the beginning of the first car, it's been Carl Benz since 1886. There is a rapid development of road traffic, which is proportionally increasing and pollution, which means polluted air is best witnessed by us residents of Slavonski Brod who are fighting with the same today. It is road traffic that represents the largest air and environmental pollutant. We have no registered hydrogen-powered vehicles in the Republic of Croatia so far. Hydrogen is applicable in transport as fuel, but also raw materials to produce the same. We could see from the strategy that the projects from the transport sector for the purchase of clean vehicles are in a high degree of preparation. They can be co-financed by European means, but we also need adequate infrastructure to transport smoothly. As I have already pointed out, the transport sector has the highest CO2 emissions, so hydrogen use needs to be directed at all its buildings. Introducing traffic in... The system will further accelerate the process of switching to transport with less CO2 where hydrogen can have an important in the log. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hydrogen can be introduced into all parts of traffic, road, rail maritime but also air. In order to apply hydrogen more strongly, we must provide all parts of the hydrogen value chain from production, transport all the way to ensuring sufficient number of vehicles to be used by hydrogen. Today, in serial production, there are vehicles, cars, trucks, buses on hydrogen. By applying such vehicles primarily to public urban transport, CO2 emissions would be reduced, improving air quality in urban areas. The transport sector is the most mature for this use of hydrogen. It is necessary to establish a hydrogen charger network in road transport that will certainly not be profitable in the first few years and therefore should be provided with grants for start-up. It is important to ensure the rapid transition of public urban transport of fossil fuels to electricity, batteries or hydrogen. The hydrogen should be potentiated in the environments that are on the hilly terrain where long lines are located and where there is a large oscillation in the temperature. When it comes to maritime transport, there are potentials for hydrogen use. I'll look back at that ship segment on the line. This is particularly important in ports that have a large number of cruises. Most of these ports use fossil fuel aggregates that emit a large amount of greenhouse gases and produce great noise. This segment should be decarbonised as soon as possible to ensure hydrogen use. Of course, for faster implementation and safe use of hydrogen, a normative and regulatory framework is needed. The level of co-financing should be sufficient for new technologies that replace existing to become commercial, cost-effective for all entities in the chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99256	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99257	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, dear colleague. Yeah, decarbonisation, reducing greenhouse gases is something the modern world faces. Croatia does not lag behind when it comes to what this strategy and some of the other strategies we have passed. Hydrogen is something that has a promise that he could revive by 2050, that it's expensive stuff that's clear. And here we are talking to some parliamentary deputies we've come to the conclusion everything has its price, but the biggest price is that civilization pays global warming and that it leads to something called food shortages and everything else. So this investment and this strategic planning is very important not only for Croatia and Croatia has already shown interest with other countries to include and to bring Croatia to that ratio by 2050, which is up to 74% reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99258	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99259	Of course, the most important thing is that we secure the future for all those generations that come behind us. It is important in this segment, of course they are finance, but surely with the funds provided in the EU, but those national funds will certainly be able to monitor the transition to hydrogen as regards the economic but also that transport system. Of course it's something that's going to take place in more phases and in a longer period of time, but also for younger generations, we have to leave something behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99260	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99261	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said in the debate that there is not a single vehicle in the Republic of Croatia, a road vehicle registered on hydrogen, and we know that in the area of traffic one of the largest pollutants comes from road traffic and because of a large number of vehicles both domestic and transit through the Republic of Croatia. Do you think that the transport sector is at all ready at this time or at some point recently to switch to hydrogen and what can be done at all in order to prepare in time for the introduction of hydrogen technology in the transport sector and thus reduce air and the environment pollution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99262	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99263	Dear colleagues in the transport sector are particularly one of the biggest polluters in the road, but the transport sector is also the most mature for hydrogen transition. Although globally there is production of hydrogen vehicles that share in transport is negligible, so is ours. But the creation of the hydrogen market should start with large users, public procurement users. So in public transport and in large transport, but in order to do all this, we must also provide the necessary infrastructure and the National Resistance and Recovery Plan and the secretary today said in his opening speech that there are funds to build the first 10 charging stations. That might not be enough for a start, but here I said this is a process that will take longer and we'll certainly catch up with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99264	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99265	Here's to getting on with what you're done with. It is necessary, of course, to focus on local production and consumption, not on European infrastructure projects when we talk about hydrogen production, for prices, for storage and all other additional costs. In this regard, I would like to know how much you see in some long-term plan for the Republic of Croatia to take over if it will go through this strategy and production on itself, or that this production takes place within the Republic of Croatia in some way or in some perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99266	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99267	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. So I see a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia, for the development of our economy of course, but also for the sufficient amount of hydrogen production, the Republic of Croatia is already making significant resources, but also for efforts to tackle and can achieve everything from this European green plan, so I am sure that in some, of course, not tomorrow, but in some significant period, we will succeed in achieving at least that tasked part that we need in the production of hydrogen in order to leave something behind here for our generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99268	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99269	Dear colleagues, here we have touched today that in the light of these trends Croatia may indeed become the first interregional country together with two other neighbouring countries, i.e. Slovenia is adjacent, and Italy will immediately be the interregional region of hydrogen in Europe. Here, do you see that as the way of the future? You think the EU will invest more then, say, on the basis of the Croatian model? And secondly, what I was actually interested in is whether you'd like to touch agriculture for example, since you mentioned certain schools in Slavonski Brod at previous exhibitions that are the true paragons of excellence in Europe, I can say freely. So I'm quite interested in how you see agriculture? You have touched traffic, and I believe that agriculture is very important since certain food shortages are expected, since artificial fuels are also something that has been supplied in the EU from Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99270	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99271	Here we thank again for the praise of the schools that are in my county, it is a secondary agricultural school and of course the biotechnology centre that is available to all our farmers, of course that agriculture is important segment, it is important for all of Croatia but also for us who come from Slavonia one of the priorities. Of course, the use of hydrogen in agriculture is also a very important thing. Here we could read about this strategy that 33% of the gas used our only Kutin Petrochemy. So, by moving to hydrogen and parts of agriculture, of course, to ensure healthy, and we're talking about healthy green Croatia. Of course, this strategy is to reduce dependence, and we have self-sufficiency in food and hydrogen production, and there is certainly an opportunity for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99272	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99273	Thank you very much. Mrs. MPs in Croatia are mainly natural gas products, and as part of industrial plants for the purposes of their own production processes. In such installations, hydrogen produced from fossil sources could be replaced by renewable hydrogen. In this respect, it would be good to enable hydrogen production at the site of use, as the initial price of production would then be reduced. Do you think that, as with renewable energy sources, renewable hydrogen production could be decentralised with the aim of reducing production prices, as well as strengthening competitiveness in industrial branches that impose decarbonisation pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99274	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99275	Thank you very much. Of course, if the use were at the site of production to reduce some costs, but surely by introducing any subsidies, incentives and all that we can quickly provide more production, more hydrogen sufficient for Croatia as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99276	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99277	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear mistress. So here we actually have two scenarios. One is the scenario concerning the Republic of Croatia, so this is a scenario called A, i.e. the climate neutrality scenario where the cost of the Republic of Croatia, so we're talking about the state, so it's on average here I'm going to say that I round up 100 million euros a year. And your second scenario is the rapid development of the economy where, let's say, the cost would be 300 million euros a year. And now of course there will be funds, they open, they close, we always have some new platform that is normal, the EU is so lively that it will cover... But it's my reading, since it's more expensive who's going to cover OPEX? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you comment on that a little bit or operating costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99278	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99279	Of course, it would make it easier for all economic operators or transporters to move to the green economy, and it would require considerable material resources. I am sure that, with the support we have in the EU but with national resources, we will facilitate this transition and the economy, as well as the transporters to this pure green. I'm going back to future generations we have to leave something behind but we can't even look at the financial costs, we have to leave a healthy life or clean air that we need to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99280	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, MPs and MPs. On the way to climate neutral Europe and a clean planet driven by the European Green Plan, it is essential to re-establish the entire supply of energy and create a fully integrated energy system. The green economy should be combined with access to clean affordable and secure energy for businesses, but also for consumers. In 2018, production and energy consumption in the EU was responsible for 75% of EU greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the EU continues to depend on imports of 58% of its energy mainly oil and gas. In July 2020, the Commission proposed a hydrogen strategy for climate neutral Europe in order to accelerate the development of clean hydrogen and ensure its fundamental role in achieving a climate neutral energy system by 2050. At present, hydrogen has yet to play a minor role in the overall supply of energy. There are challenges in terms of cost competitiveness, production volume, infrastructure needs and perceived security, however hydrogen is expected to allow the future without emissions, heating and industrial processes, as well as inter-season energy storage. Hydrogen yields about 2% of EU energy, of which 95% are produced from fossil fuels, which releases between 70 million and 100 million tonnes of CO2 annually. According to research, renewable energy sources could be a significant source of energy in 2050. Of which hydrogen could be responsible for 20% supply. Proposal for a Croatian Hydrogen Strategy from 2021 to 2050 provide a framework for the production and use of hydrogen with a focus on renewable hydrogen as a substitute for fossil fuels and an increase in the stability of the renewable-based electricity system in order to achieve energy self-sufficiency and transition to clean energy, and sustainable mobility. Hydrogen will play an important role in decarbonising the national economy, especially in sectors that currently have few alternative technological opportunities and where electrification could lead to significant costs. The hydrogen potential in Croatia primarily stems from the potential of renewable electricity generation, which can provide adequate and long-term production of renewable hydrogen. However, in order to establish a hydrogen-based economy and promote production itself, hydrogen demand and a distribution system should be ensured to ensure that produced hydrogen is delivered to end-users. It is therefore necessary to ensure harmonised growth of 3 key elements, production, distribution and consumption. The production of hydrogen will take place in the period from '21. Until '26. Initially tied to transport and industrial sector. There are already some projects in transport that are in high preparation, such as the procurement of clean vehicles, while the industrial sector is the most ready to start using renewable hydrogen, primarily in refinery and petrochemical plants. Therefore, with the production of renewable hydrogen at the site of production of electricity from renewable sources, it is necessary to allow the development of renewable hydrogen production through the use of electrolysers connected to the electricity grid. Croatia has been defined to stimulate the production of renewable hydrogen, which would be partly obtained by electrolysis of water using electricity from renewable sources. In order to establish a significant production of renewable hydrogen in the initial period, existing industrial plants which are prior to shutdown or which have the potential to re-use and establish new decarbonised technologies in their production processes may be used. What has been announced in the strategy is the possibility of refurbishing existing underground warehouses such as the underground warehouse Okoli, as well as building smaller ones like those in the Grubišni Polje for the storage of hydrogen. However, we must say that the strategy was written before these recent events that thoroughly shaken the gas market and other energy sources. So I would ask here why the gas storage facility in the surrounding areas is empty, if it could have been in view of the movements on the market predicting that we would need the gas and whether we could have filled that warehouse in the Environment, when we plan to fill it and at what cost, I would have asked the Secretary of State to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99282	Thank you. We have replicas, the esteemed representative of Troscott first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99283	Dear fellow Petyr, the question is this. European conservatives ordered a study confirmed by Nobel Prize winners for the economy of Prof. William Nordhaus and certain experts in the field of green economy and nuclear energy who have actually said that this renewable energy will not be enough in Europe at this time. This is seen by the electricity output in Germany where it falls, and the number of wind power plants is falling, since the windiest parts are already filled. So this is seen for example in the Czech Republic and for example in the Netherlands, where the wind is present and there is a certain regional continental relief diversity, so there will be no renewables there either. I'm interested in whether you would support nuclear energy, for example of the 4th generation, and where, for example, Koreans give advice so that with this stable energy source, you could then place excess energy in hydrogen production? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99284	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99285	Thank you, dear colleague Troscott, for your replica. I haven't had a chance to see this study, and I think my position on nuclear energy is already planetary, so I can do it again. So no one expects us to be self-sufficient at this point in the production of renewable energy sources, and that is why strategies are being adopted by 2050, 2070, and there are precise projections as much as we can from which we can produce renewable energy sources. I think that we should put an emphasis on this, and I'm very skeptical of the latest developments and orientation that increasingly places a focus on the nuclear energy that wants to be shown as a renewable energy source because I think that the renewable energy source must also be seen from the point of view of the waste that is later created and that we need to take care of, and we know that the nuclear fuel that has been spent and medium-low-radioactive waste is problematic waste, and I would like to put more emphasis on real renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99286	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99287	Here's what I'm going to do with the problem of the renewable energy deficit. Some experts believe that this is why Europe will have to turn to other countries that have cheaper renewable energy sources in order to make hydrogen available, and in this sense we are going back to this geopolitical issue because the whole green transition except, of course, was more acceptable to the idea that Europe is in some way ensuring geopolitical dependence on energy sources from some other countries, we see where this can lead us, right now we have an escalating conflict on European soil. However, if we do not have enough renewable energy sources, so if we are not able to produce renewable hydrogen alone, will Europe and this strategy at all be able to reach its desired goal of self-sufficiency when we talk about energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99288	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99289	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, given the fact that we are importing 58% of our energy, makes sense that we are developing such strategies that we better recognise our own potentials and try to put them into function. We often discuss here in the Croatian Parliament in order to facilitate certain processes, obtaining permits such as the use of renewable energy sources. First of all, I think of farmers who, despite all our efforts, are still very difficult to approach, for example, to place solars on their farms, which would be a sustainable farm or that biogas plants connect their agricultural production, thus rounding the cycle and thus really show what a circular economy is and what a sustainable production is. So we here as a committee have already discussed and appealed to the Ministry of Economy on several occasions in the thematic sessions to flexible these conditions to put our potentials in full function and achieve these objectives. which strategies are prescribed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99290	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99291	Thank you. Dear colleagues Petir, therefore the issue, the threats that we have recently been exposed to as a civilization pose a serious threat to Europe as a whole, and especially to the EU. So the invasion of Ukraine has brought to light energy dependence on fossil fuels provided by Russia as an aggressor by a large number of EU member states. The question, therefore, is that the faster and more efficient energy transition towards sustainable and clean energy sources has become more relevant. The European economy and citizens face enormous growth in production costs as well as in lives that reach historical maximums. Is the energy transition, then, within the scope of the EU's comprehensive Green Plan, one of the pillars of sustainable development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99292	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99293	Thank you very much, MP Vukovac, so certainly the energy transition is not only necessary but it also represents one segment of sustainable development, because if we want to put emphasis on encouraging those economic activities that create new jobs, but not polluting the environment it certainly has a place of renewable energy sources and this green hydrogen that we are talking about today, but also the energy of the sun, wind, water biomass and all of those sources that Croatia has at its disposal. What seems necessary to me is to make a map of renewable energy sources. So, see what resources we have in which part of Croatia and then encourage the construction of such energy. In this way I think that what we really have would be put into full effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99294	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99295	... Vice President of the Assembly. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Dear counterpart Petir, the proposed strategy is the continuation of the EU-wide hydrogen initiative signed by the Republic of Croatia in 2018. Croatia has been making a major, major effort in decarbonising the energy sector and the economy in recent years. The goal is to make at least 36.6% of electricity in consumption from renewable sources by 2030. And that will further increase hydrogen as a carrier of energy and economy. With the national recovery plan, we made a commitment to make 10 chargers over the next three years and finance a number of electricians. The government is aware that while there will be no more available technology and technology, of course, the cheaper ones will need a more generous incentive by the state, so I'm interested in your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99296	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99297	Thank you very much fellow MPs, so certainly incentives are one of the measures to be taken. I think that the European Commission is also considering it until it determines how and with which financial resources will go in this direction because what I saw was called public calls. And this is a series of public calls at EU level to encourage research, innovation, where certain experimental projects are being carried out, such as focusing on the transport of heavy burdens. So, to trucks that, for which research is now financed, how a heavy load could move on to hydrogen use. So, all of this is of course commendable, but I would go back to what's basic, which is that we should first remove the administrative barriers we now have so that we can use renewable energy sources more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99298	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99299	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Petir, when we talk about hydrogen and hydrogen economy, it is about new technologies and new knowledge that needs to be developed and upgraded and thus stimulate and involve the scientific community in order to ensure a sufficient number of experts that will enable the economy to use hydrogen-based energy. It is the strategy that envisions the establishment of a regional hydrogen centre for some 13 countries that are at the beginning of the use of hydrogen energy such as the Republic of Croatia. The Centre would lead the scientific community in support of industry experts with the aim of working together to ensure the development of a hydrogen-based economy. It is significant that the employees and co-workers of the centre should conduct additional training of engineers and all interested, so how do you feel about such an idea and cooperation between the scientific community and the economy. Should we insist, insist, and try to launch such a center and cooperation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99300	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99301	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I absolutely believe that stronger cooperation between the economic sector and the scientific sector is necessary, because economic operators can explain to us what they need, and researchers are certainly sufficiently educated to know how to do it. What would be desirable is that somehow Croatia may be positioned in lobbying for the regional centre's headquarters because it would be one important message about our status as a country that really puts emphasis on the production of renewable energy sources without talking about opening new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99302	Honorable MPs. In your presentation, you touched hydrogen storage and wondered among other things why the warehouse around is currently empty. Let's not forget that hydrogen is very, very explosive, that we don't currently have gas pipelines that would allow us to transport that hydrogen through the pipeline, that we need to figure out how we should even deliver that hydrogen and get it ready. We have four ways to store hydrogen in underground storage, so we need to see what we're going to give just pure hydrogen, we're going to give hydrogen and gas, we're going to give hydrogen, gas, CO2 etc. Now not to list all the methods, so we need to come up with a tactics of how we're going to realize that it's going to be worth it because now if we're far away from producing hydrogen, we're driving it there and we're storing the question of how cost-effective it is. The goal is actually to produce hydrogen as close as possible to the consumption site.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99303	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99304	Thank you, colleague Pavic. I didn't say that, I said that the strategy says that the possibility of re-use of existing underground gas warehouses such as that about the storage of hydrogen, and what I'm saying is in the strategy, and what I said is that I'm surprised by all the events that we had on the geopolitical plan, at the high energy prices, that it might conclude that gas supply could be a problem, since the underground gas storage facility is just as the word says for gas storage, my question was why our gas storage was empty, which I'm interested in, at which point we're going to fill it with gas. I wasn't talking about hydrogen charge because it's some distant future, I'm talking about the current moment because I think the underground storage of gas in these geopolitical situations must be a lot, not empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99305	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop by this point a little bit because it's been an hour, so we're going to take a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives' clubs, and first, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative, Nino Rasudiæ, will speak. Thank you. We are now going back to our point and will individually speak the esteemed representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99307	Dear Chairman, I am sorry that there are no secretaries, I have other questions or suggestions and suggestions related to the strategy, and then, well, then I will change my debate a little bit, so I will first answer my colleagues and colleagues who have talked a little bit about traffic and where hydrogen will be used and used most, so here I will help my colleague with the transport and it will primarily be air transport. I'd actually like to draw attention to how fast it is to develop technology. Namely, in April 2021. We had a presentation of a plane flying on hydrogen. However, given the problems associated with hydrogen, it was resolved that it was only for 6 passengers. It's actually that hydrogen has a greater ratio of energy and mass than fossil fuels, but it has a smaller ratio between energy and volume, so that gas should be either squeezed or turned into liquid, and for that conversion into liquid it takes a temperature of minus 263 degrees, so it has problems. So that was in April 2021, December 2021. A new aircraft large of Airbus has been presented which could connect any two points on the ground without harmful emissions using hydrogen. I just wanted to present how fast technology is and how challenging this strategy really is because I guess we're going to have to change it very quickly because so far some, some of these assumptions that probably won't be worth it for a short time. It would also draw attention to what I had already drawn attention to earlier, which is that since this development of technology is as fast as possible and that we are bringing the strategy to 30. that we must have, in particular take care of how and in which direction we will direct this hydrogen energy. It is that the Social Democrats Club thinks it is important that companies that are bonds of payment of ETS are now targeted at the beginning, because in that case, if I were to so publicly express myself in this case, two birds were killed by one blow. In fact, these companies have a problem with pollution, which is a huge cost to them, which could also motivate them to change their way of producing energy much, long before other business entities who do not have the problem. At the same time, these are companies and great points that we could make... So... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] to show how this can work in practice and what the real effects of switching to hydrogen-related technologies are, and thus hydrogen appears to be an energyy future. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I leave that big problem that many MPs have already talked about, which is a cost-effectiveness problem. This cost-effectiveness problem will not be easily solved especially if we are talking about hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources because it is a slightly more expensive hydrogen, and for now I have said that in my replica in the EU, only 2% of hydrogen is produced by electrolysis, and the rest is actually produced by the processing of natural gas. There's something from coal you can get, I think you get, etc., etc., etc. Since the problem of cost-effectiveness is present because such technologies are expensive, technologies are not cost-effective, so they should consider grants, so management would be easier to decide on using technology and would not, in that way, start earlier in fact in this direction in the use of hydrogen. I also said earlier that time is an extremely important factor and many believe that the economy is ready to use hydrogen, especially those ETS addicts. There are other companies that otherwise use gas to a large extent and that, with little changes, could actually start using hydrogen and that would actually be one of those solutions that would somehow save us and allow us to function differently. I have a few more, a few remarks, remarks that are related to strategic guidelines. So the focus is on storage and transportation of hydrogen, the question is whether at this point it is possible to better define a framework that will regulate storage, quantity and storage conditions since this is not available in your documentation. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99308	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99309	Unfortunately, it is indeed an unfavourable moment to discuss this strategy because while we are talking about hydrogen on the other side, we have a situation that if it continues to grow gas and generally fossil fuels, we will have more and more households to move on to traditional heating in the coming winter and that it will no longer use gas at all, and then the pollution will be greater, and then the potential measures will be even more radically needed in the future if we want to achieve any green plan. And on that trail, with what you've been saying, you've opened up an important question of how long-term our strategies should be when we talk about new technologies, and also the challenges we face on a geopolitical plan in this situation. What you think is whether strategies should be renewed or checked once a year or once every two years, at least because this 10-year plan, given the development of new technologies, is really not realistic. It will also be adequate for some time and useful. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99310	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99311	I'll remind you that ten days ago, we had a debate in the assembly that mentioned that Europe is thinking about coal again, thinking about fossil fuels again, and here we are talking about hydrogen today, so now that's two completely different approaches. And what I said in my debate, I believe that this strategy will definitely experience changes because technology is developing very quickly and here I gave at the beginning of my exposure to the aviation industry, within six months of a small plane carrying barely six passengers within six months a new technology has developed that actually Airbus is largely transporting passengers from any point to any point of the globe with the fact that, of course, the presentation of that plane should be around 2030. So I definitely think that the strategy will be changed, without it we won't be able to because if we want to be on track, I've said it before to the secretary, if we want to. to be in progress, if we want... new technologies we need to change strategy. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99312	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99313	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pavić, here is the mantra in the hydrogen assembly today, about the wonders and greenery that this hydrogen will bring to Croatia, and we will be rid of all the pollution. But do we in Croatia have any Croatian companies that produce more hydrogen? We don't. Will Croatian companies produce hydrogen in Croatia in the future? Of course it won't be some foreign company that'll make a profit. Are we importing one-third of the power? Yeah, we're importing. Do we know that a kilo of hydrogen takes between 30 and 40 kWh? Yeah. Where did we get it? Well, we're gonna have to bring it in. On the other hand, solar panels, people who want to set up on their roofs, produce, sell to HEP electricity, HEP does not allow that. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not allow because it can order HEP to buy electricity. It has now become much more accessible very good green technology, and we do not allow our citizens to make them... on their roofs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99314	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99315	I agree with you what you said, but the strategy says that we will be dealing with the production, storage and use of hydrogen so that this strategy involves all three aspects and I think we should support it as a strategy. And as for the panel, the solar panels on the roofs, we asked that question, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Secretary, that if this happens, if HEP doesn't let anyone put the panels on the roof to contact him, then I hope it's real, and then it's going to be settled, Mr. Secretary. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99316	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Jure Brkan will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99317	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Hydrogen-based hydrogen-based hydrogen-based hydrogen-based elements of the green energy transition to meet the eu targets of clean energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. What makes hydrogen so important and what does hydrogen trigger? Hydrogen changes the appearance of transport, and will do much more than drive a car, until home heating we move towards a hydrogen-based society. Unlike other energy sources, its only by-product is water, although storage and transport in large quantities to replace fossil fuels that damage our environment requires sustainable systems. Hydrogen will likely have the greatest impact on decarbonisation because it is a safe alternative that welcomes us to a clean society. How hydrogen is used in transport i.e. What kind of engine uses hydrogen as fuel? Motors are fuel cells that supply the electric motor that drives the vehicle with energy obtained, so vehicles with hydrogen fuel cells are classified as electric vehicles. The fuel cell vehicle functions as an internal combustion engine, except that the system does not burn the hydrogen that draws from the pressure tank but connects it to oxygen to produce electric power for the electric motor. The procedure takes place in a PEM fuel cell consisting of sets of thin plates separated by membranes. How does Croatia's hydrogen strategy predict the use of hydrogen? The development of the hydrogen market and strengthening its demand should take place parallel to the development of capacity for its use. For example, in addition to the development of renewable hydrogen production technology, an important prerequisite for its use in transport is the simultaneous development of the necessary infrastructure for filling and transport of guides. The establishment of a hydrogen market in road transport needs to be started with large end-users such as public procurement obligations in the transport of passengers and goods, while ensuring the establishment of a network of hydrogen chargers in road transport, which will be linked to larger urban centres in the first steps. It is particularly important to ensure the rapid transition of public urban transport from fossil fuels to electricity or batteries and hydrogen. Given that a number of important rail routes are not yet electrified, the cost-effectiveness of hydrogen investment should be considered in relation to investments in the electricity of those routes. Maritime transport also has great potential for the use of hydrogen, especially when it comes to land and island connections. The transport sector has great potential for the use of hydrogen both in road and in rail, ship and air transport. Industrial production in Croatia has great potential for the use of hydrogen, especially in the decarbonisation process as a substitute for fossil fuels. This applies primarily to the industry that already uses hydrogen in its processes such as petrochemical industry and refineries, but the use of hydrogen should be directed at all other energy intensive industries that use fossil fuels, especially natural gas as energy for its production processes. The strategy provides a national vision of development, research, infrastructure production and the use of hydrogen technology with the aim of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. As a vision of national targets related to the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, it is fully in line with the National Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. The strategy will contribute to achieving CO2 reduction targets and allow for more active inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the EU hydrogen-related process and projects. As I said earlier in an individual debate, the strategy draws us a path with its four objectives that are defined, with four objectives that are defined so that we can, in order to develop our technology and ours, prepare our society for the transition to green transition, for the transition to hydrogen. What's most important is that we use all the knowledge and available technologies that we have today and that it promotes them. And certainly, because the strategy is already determined by the process of electro-gaining hydrogen from electrolysis to use renewable energy sources. Not a single solar power plant, not a single wind power plant or any other renewable energy sources will certainly be scattered and will not be banned from being produced, because we heard from the secretary of state that in fact the excess energy produced from renewable energy sources can be very easily directed into fuel production, into production hydrogen. That's why we need a lot of resources, which is why we need a lot of technology, which is why we need a lot of technological capacity to produce, store and transfer that hydrogen. What I believe is that this strategy is a good, good document. Also, other action plans will be good documents that will be able to better specify all these things needed to make hydrogen a dominant driving force in 2050. Note, the development of electric engines and battery systems is not an obstacle to the development of hydrogen energy for this reason will be used in one segment, and hydrogen will be used in all those segments where it is not enough. So, primarily as I said in public transport, maritime transport, and I believe that future and air transport, air transport has no alternative, at least now, but hydrogen, but we want a sustainable, sustainable economic economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99318	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and eventually the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99319	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, would look a little bit at the document itself, Chapter II, the development potential and possibility of applying hydrogen to strategic guidelines where the focus is placed on the occasional transport of hydrogen and ask if at this point it is possible to better define a framework that will regulate the storage of quantities and storage conditions since these data can be drastically conditioned... Organisations and methods of storage of hydrogen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why we think it would be better to describe the potential of the regulatory framework and the imagined possibilities in terms of the very storage conditions. Furthermore, there is a part there that relates to investment in scientific research activities and we feel that it is certainly necessary. As much investment in these activities as we believe it is possible to imagine the development of specific programmes to encourage innovation in hydrogen production and storage, especially in a solid state that is very promising for the long-term development of hydrogen economy. In hydrogen production, a unilateral approach to hydrogen production is described exclusively by electrolysis. The hydrogen economy requires diversification of production, transport and storage methods. In this way, a stable economy is achieved that can meet market requirements at any time at the price identical to the variation of different markets such as that of electricity. The strategy also mentions other technologies such as waste pyrolysis, and as the primary role of hydrogen is to offer a quick but long-term solution for decarbonisation then focus should be on the carbon footprint of hydrogen that takes into account all such production and storage. Thus, we can conclude that the electrolysis of clean water is a good method when only sure of the renewable energy source and its affordable price. In terms of decarbonisation, it is necessary to insist on the methods mentioned in the strategy that rely on other sources of hydrogen production other than clean water. Thus, pure pyrolysis and waste insertion can contribute to cross-sectoral decarbonisation and production of pure hydrogen at a price significantly lower than that achieved by electrolysis today. Like, and that would again affect what we used to talk about, and that's an expensive technology that would actually make it easier to implement or use hydrogen and accept hydrogen as, like, fuels. As a result, a smart network economy is the best of these complementary technologies at any time. Another important factor in the development of hydrogen economy throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the region is relying on decentralisation, decentralised hydrogen production near the place of use. In this way, the use of hydrogen is locally propagated with smaller investments in transport systems. We already talked about it when they were replicas, we know what the volume of hydrogen is, what the problems are. We know it's extremely explosive and that we have this problem in that transport and transport, I mean in transport and so on. Also in this chapter hydrogen production in the subsection that speaks of hydrogen certification, the process itself should rely on the methods that have been developed in the system... which means that certification, in the main principle, is not carbon-produced hydrogen, taking into account all stages of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it is not limited by the way hydrogen is produced but by its primary role and decarbonisation capacity of various sectors. And another comment about storage or storage and transport of hydrogen. In fact, the comment is related to the storage of hydrogen and says that in solid form is one of the developmental research steps that will allow easier transport to shorter and longer distances, low storage pressures, and the indirect and lower price of hydrogen. There are already forms of hydrogen storage in solid form with a promising status for storage and transport of hydrogen. And now I have something to do with it. Can river transport be used to transport goods in high pressure tanks and further to define what amounts of hydrogen should be stored in one place and under what conditions? How will the storage of excess energy in hydrogen be organised in view of the amount of restrictions on quantitative restrictions and safety rules? And this also applies to the question asked by a colleague if you can answer us what we will do with the excess energy that we achieve when we place a panel on our roofs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99320	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mirela AHmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99321	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. This strategy for hydrogen, hence the Croatian hydrogen strategy until 2050. It's been a while since you've done a few things. First, and what we have all agreed on here, at least in the opposition, is that it has failed to demonstrate clearly and unequivocally support for the production of hydrogen from renewable energy sources, or that of pure green hydrogen. So, clearly and unequivocally introduce so-called For example, hydrogen bleaching as is done in the world and define that grey hydrogen, hydrogen produced from fossil fuels, blue hydrogen, hydrogen produced from fossil fuels with the capture and storage of CO2, green hydrogen as one produced from renewable energy sources where it is seen in the strategy itself that it is referred to as low carbon, renewable and other hydrogen types, but clearly does not introduce the characteristics of each of them which could be made to clearly indicate at the beginning of the document. The grey hydrogen is like that, you get these and these raw materials processes, the efficiency of the process is like that, and if we talk about the blue hydrogen example, then we can say that it's a little more favourable to the environment because there's no greenhouse gas emissions, which could have been shown in the following way, for example, the gas is drilling or pumping from the well, the efficiency of that process is so much, it's treated with so much efficiency, then I don't know how to get standard gas with a quality for daytime transmission and distribution in the gas system, so natural gas leads to the periphery of the urban center through the transmission system, so the efficiency of that transmission system is so much, so hydrogen is produced through the process of steam reforming the methane with the capture and storage of carbon dioxide, so the efficiency and that process is so much, etc. So in the end, it could be very clear, unequivocally precise and detailedly determined in fact for each type of hydrogen and its characteristics and characteristics and efficiency of its use at all times and in every sense refuse any doubts that we represent, whether we represent a transition to green energy sources or to renewable energy sources really how we like to boast or try to make any strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia somehow that there is always room for such promotion and use of fossil fuels and infrastructures for fossil fuels. So a strategy that clearly and unequivocally shows only the advantages and opportunities of some technology and thus forms goals, and does not point to shortcomings and threats is dangerous. Why is she dangerous? Because it simply gives a false picture, does not point to the fact or to the fact, but does not show it transparently to go into the hands of traders, manufacturers and distributors of natural gas as well as to those to whom it offers false hope that the use of existing gas infrastructure will be possible to continue in terms of business and further use, and this is primarily a false hope in heating to natural gas or the use of that hydrogen infrastructure because it is simply not suitable for such infrastructure to move on to that pure hydrogen but simply to continue to exploit gas as a mediator in hydrogen production and to mix that hydrogen in very, very small quantities with gas and of course continue to use fossil fuels. So, a strategy that uncritically promotes all kinds of production and use of hydrogen actually does not promote anything because those parts where hydrogen really makes sense and where hydrogen can have advantages over alternatives neglected, and that is primarily its use in the industry where it will be difficult to electrify processes and find a substitute for natural gas, for oil, coal and other fuels, which achieve high combustion temperatures or some other kind of high temperature heat. Thus, such a strategy poses a risk that both the European Commission and the European Commission do not meet the conditions in which hydrogen production is clearly encouraged without further greenhouse gas emissions, all due to the Ukrainian crisis and the reduction of use and imports of natural gas. So, the strategy would make sense if the objectives were to formulate clearly and unequivocally, and that would be if, in each of those four goals, there was room for the installation of the word green hydrogen, so that the production of green hydrogen would increase, the potential of renewable energy for green hydrogen, the increase in the use of green hydrogen and the re-enhancing of the development of science, research. etc. green hydrogen technology. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99322	Thank you. And now Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin will speak finally on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we think that effective use of renewable hydrogen means using where direct electrification is not possible. We agree that renewable hydrogen can be used to help decarbonise sectors such as heavy industry or transport maritime transport, air, trains. In fact, there is a consensus that the greatest potential of renewable hydrogen is to decarbonise the heavy industry, especially steel and also to refine cement, ceramics and chemicals, basically any industry that needs extremely high temperatures. Some of these industries could be electrified, but this would require large investments in a completely new use, new equipment, while green hydrogen could serve as an almost direct replacement for coal and gas. As regards transport, renewable hydrogen may be useful in particular for maritime and river and air transport, and in certain circumstances rail transport, as well as freight motor vehicles and buses. In view of the challenges of renewable hydrogen production, it is preferable to use electric battery vehicles where possible, which primarily refers to passenger cars and other road transport modes, and hydrogen is used in those sectors where different decarbonisation is difficult to perform. In most cases, it is more economical to use electric buses than hydrogen-powered buses, but in rare cases priority can still be given to the drive of the bus by renewable hydrogen, and similar to those of trucks, and when we talk about trains in most cases it is better to electrify rail infrastructure, but there are some circumstances in which such operation is invaluable, I mean the low frequency of walking and train departures and when in that case it is right to introduce trains with hydrogen-powered drive. There are major challenges in decabonisation in maritime and air transport, where other synthetic fuels and hydrogen use are also developing other than electric power plants. In these sectors, renewable hydrogen will be an important factor in reducing and removing emissions. In view of the high costs, transport and storage challenges, and probably the scarcity of renewable hydrogen in the next 10 years in its production should be focused on local production and consumption instead of large European infrastructure projects currently serving to extend the life span of gas through the so-called so-called ". Bleeding or mixing hydrogen and gas. I am using once again the opportunity to highlight the opportunity given to us by this hydrogen strategy for the transformation of the shipping institute into a national technical institute within which a hydrogen centre led by this strategy can be very easily organised. In that sense, we have also submitted an amendment to this strategy that I am proposing and I ask that it be understood as a scientific community amendment more than an amendment to the opposition, so I hope that it will be treated in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99324	You, too. And finally, Mr Ivo Milatić, the secretary of state will speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the debate on this strategy proposal and I am obliged to briefly refer to what was mentioned here purely for the sake of the Croatian public and because it does not turn out to be this one, that we may not have understood each other. Uh, the emphasis in the debate that we've mostly focused on traffic, and we've forgotten about the industry this is not true because we said industry and traffic in the strategy. Of course we've made a little more emphasis on traffic. In industry, this strategy primarily applies to those, those activities where ETS units, i.e. carbon dioxide transmission pens, are significant. The very date when the European Hydrogen Strategy was created means there in the '20s and today when it is observed practically ETS units are double as regards values, means the time of the creation of a strategy in the EU and this one and today is quite different, different than it was then, which means that everything contributes to renewable sources and hydrogen among other things, and it goes counter-carbonic situations, and so does grey hydrogen. So even when we emphasized a slightly bigger and more emphasis on transport, we did not forget one important part of the Croatian industry, or in the Croatian state, which is the tourism industry, meaning the tourism industry that makes up 20% of GDP, at least what is in the statistics, and if we look at it a little bit more, it may depend heavily on traffic and on the construction of transport infrastructure, and among other things in this transport infrastructure that primarily refers to the chadjlar and everything else is clear and important this element that will be guided. That's what it's all about. As for the dilemma whether this progress that we've projected here is too big or 7 times larger, we don't think it's logical that this progress should go the hardest way there since the '30s. and in the '30s, respectively. Until '35. You see, in all of these, all of our tables where we've been talking about average investments since the '30s. Until '40. These amounts are higher, and when you look at this later, they're smaller, and it's being used clearly shows how it is. When we said, here was the question of what we think is average employment, here we calculated average employment. We clearly did not count here average employment for exclusively companies that will deal exclusively with hydrogen but also companies whose hydrogen and this entire guide story will help to keep some of the jobs of the cement industry type, the sugar industry of any other industry where necessary, and provide enough energy to reduce this CO2 emissions. When we talked about switching hydrogen to hydrogen projections is this optimistic that 2050. 15% is hydrogen in total energy consumption, and less optimistic is 11. We think it's pretty good, good this, good forecast and it just has to be because if 100 terawatt hours of total energy is spent in Croatia annually, if you know that 18.5 terawatt hours are just electricity consumption, if you just think about just a little bit how much the fossil energy from transport should change, it's an additional almost as much terrawatt as it is now spent on total electricity, it's going to take so long to create some new electricity. Logically, this new electricity will be from renewable sources, and it is logical that these renewable sources will have a very good opportunity to place those surpluses that will result from certain weather conditions, i.e., or store them in a battery such as hydrogen or the same from it delivered. Here I must make this clear once again publicly that I am not clear that I am communicating this sort of situation that citizens cannot put their panel on the roof and that HEP does not give it. I do, it simply does not understand that in this esteemed home it is found when there is a clear law on self-supply, i.e. clear rules, regulation. Any such request must be granted so that at its consumption level it can be produced. And what concerns perhaps individuals, and so I assume well-respected representatives and advocates that this excess energy that objectively some could produce is much more than just spending on that formula that is in the regulation, which is prescribed that HEP or supplier pay cheaper, anywhere in the law or in the formula, does not say that the supplier cannot pay it more expensive, but the law allowed the supplier to pay as cheaply as it is, but through the aggregate and through the electricity market law supply can pay even more expensive. Whether HEP will be so undertaking that it will get involved in it or maybe some other companies will move on and HEP will turn on later on and we'll see what we see for a while it says its own. But the fact is that every citizen can put on his own, on his house solar according to the rules that have existed since 2018 and it is absolutely wrong to communicate that it is impossible. That is possible, but if a citizen thinks that he, that it is not enough for him to be a self-supplier and a self-producer to become a self-supervisor and self-producer first, he can easily fall out of that status and become a self-producer. Then he has to find himself an aggregater and a supplier and make his own way, pay for the balance sheet, someone has to announce the power for him. It's all possible. We've all been legally foreseen. You're just writing down the rules for all the things I'm talking about right now, and so we've opened this niche that isn't small. And that's where I agree with you why someone shouldn't produce in that regime, but then they have to find themselves both a firm and a company that will do it for him and find it from Benefit. So, the fact that something hep stops, doesn't stop, if it stops there are legally prescribed legal drugs and it's serious, fines are dragonous. If you remember when the Law on the Market was electrocuted, some of them had this remark that we put in dragon penalties, but we stayed on it. So I think we should stick with that. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I've told you, as far as the questions about the route of the warehouse in the Environment are concerned. The warehouse in the Environment is for the first time not only in the Environment but throughout Europe and worldwide, but especially in Europe, for the first time, after many, many years, we have a completely different situation than we have all these years of boredom. So we have finished the heating season and as always the warehouse that is empty and it was always normal that when the heating season is over, when the gas in principle was more expensive that they are traders and suppliers already who is the tenant of the warehouse has secured some income for themselves and now they are slowly when the gas was cheaper for the next 5 months filling it up. We now have a situation that any gas charge now produces a loss for the next five months. So it's nothing new in Croatia it's the same problem all over Europe so that the problem will obviously have to be seen and seen by the commission and everyone else how and how the potential losses will be compensated because no one will go consciously into the loss if someone does not guarantee it for the security of supplying that same loss. But about this then it is something that is not only a Croatian problem, it is a problem for the whole EU and the Commission, and very soon this particular, certain perceptions and attitudes will come to the issue. As far as our strategy is concerned, we think that it is a good, balanced and that it is a good opportunity for Croatia because a large amount of renewable energy sources and new plants that will occur especially in the southern part of our country where we have a problem with the lack of electricity evacuation capacity and which will be clearly solved by the co-cession next year, parallelly needs to be developed and the power plants that in their part will have the ability to store any bacterial energy, were watery and, as such, enable electricity stability in the Republic of Croatia, reduce imports, and clearly then justify each kuna that will invest in this. I have to make amends, the funds we predicted in the NPOO and the OPC are all 360 million, not 160 million, 200 million is for the electricists, and 160 is for the chargers. So here I am so short. I thank you for, for, for the discussion, and I hope we adopt this strategy tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99326	Thank you. You have several replicas, the first replica has Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99327	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I must agree with you. It's true, it's not true that citizens can't put solar panels on roofs. However, in order to secure the energy they spend through solar plants, it costs about 10,000 euros and in any case very few citizens of the Republic of Croatia can afford such an investment. The point of the debate of all those who have mentioned these solar plants is to do something to just focus all the effort to boost the civic energy that will then also give the surpluses that produce them into the network or sell to HEP who will then produce hydrogen from these surpluses. This makes sense, you encourage citizens for whom you show that you are of strategic interest, em encourages the production of hydrogen from renewable energy sources directly and rewards your citizens and encourages them to use these renewable energy sources. With this system that you have told who exists now, there is simply no incentive for citizens to produce from renewable energy sources because when they produce excess they enter the category of producers that are far more unfavourable than they should be. This solves everything, and that's where you show real interest in the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99328	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99329	Thank you. In short, it means by this system without any incentive for capex or building a facility that says it costs about 10,000 euros, which could be agreed to be an average, this citizen will mean without any incentive in 10 years. Return here, at 7 a.m. to return that investment safely, which means, with an incentive from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, it will be returned in 5 and perhaps 4.5 depending on which part of the country it is located. So as far as I see the interest of the citizens is great, the amount of money every year is getting bigger for it, so it's not true that we don't care and we don't give incentives. We give incentives and parallel here we allow through the law that maybe someone who finds a good generator and a supplier and without incentives finds an interest in making a neat profit and paying off that facility before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99330	Mr. Sinisha Hajdash, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99331	Thank you. So in all productivity factors, Croatia is actually at the bottom of the European scale. And now listening carefully to your presentation, you are, finally, the main emphasis on investments that will come either in capex or in opex, still in 2030, and in my view this could have been a chance for Croatia to take some step to be the leader of Europe. And on the other hand, I quote you again, it's kind of weird to me, it says something is slowly written, something HERA is slowly writing, so we need speed, not slowness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99332	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99333	Thank you. No, no, no, we just didn't seem to understand each other. You were, you were supposed to say that I was talking about hydrogen, and I wasn't talking about renewable sources, I wasn't talking about all the megawatts that are now in the web, which is about the reconstruction of the network where we work right away. This part I'm saying is that if they're a couple of months late, they're not a couple of years late or they never even got here. So, as far as this is concerned, Croatia will surely meet its strategic goals by 2030 and exceed them guaranteed, guaranteed to exceed them, because it is now seen to exceed them, but here it is. We'll see by the end of the year, they'll have this esteemed home opportunity to get a report in some kind of debate that will certainly be that this is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99334	- Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99335	Thank you. My dear secretary, I have put forward a proposal that I would say is imposed on myself because the strategy is talking about the hydrogen centre, it's spoken of as one of the strategic goals is the importance of education, scientific inclusions, etc., so here's a very concrete proposal to stop the liquidation of the shipping institute, to transform into a national technical institute, it's not my idea, it's said by the representatives of science that we gathered on a round table in the assembly and it's not expensive, it can be done in a few months. Not only do we get the possibility of a fast establishment of a hydrogen centre but we do get a very significant technical institute for a complete green transformation that is ahead of us and is of great importance, so I would ask you nicely to comment in the final, so can there be any possibility that such an initiative can be launched? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99336	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99337	Thank you. I think the initiative is commendable. We're on our way now. We worked the strategy as you were pictured through the task force and in collaboration with these institutions of science who were actively involved when hydrogen was totally in the bandages and when and when very little was said about it. We are now going about that way, which will be in the future that we will see, so it's not just up to our ministry, there's the sea and the Ministry of Science and Education this tell your court and clearly and see what's all about the shipping institute, which is his destiny, there are significant properties, so it was the idea to sell, not sell, CERRP with it manages, so, it's quite complex that I would now give a flat, it could ic one way or another. So let me get this one to... Let's think about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99338	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met and now we have up to, up to 14 and 35 breaks for technical reasons or video streaming which must be, every day we have that break of 10 minutes, thank you. 14 and 35, thank you. MEETING IN 14.26 HOURS We'll be moving on with our work. - Proposal for a Decision establishing an investigative committee to determine the effectiveness of the functioning of the EU funds and the supervision of possible irregularities, illegal actions and corruption are the Proposer, are 22 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. Does the representatives want to further explain the proposal? Mr. Peja Grbin has already set himself up, so I guess that's why it is, isn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99350	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, they want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99351	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99352	My colleagues and colleagues, this is not, of course, the first time we have discussed the establishment of investigative committees in the assembly. I'm going to go back a little bit and ironically remind myself that from this very spot, from this pay phone, we were looking for the establishment of an investigative committee related to the leak of information from the DORH which the gentlemen of the HDZ were heartily struggling to find out just a few months ago when the Horvat case appeared, when Minister Horvat was arrested to be questioned and to find out where the leaky information, who was responsible, why this was happening. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's legitimate for me to now tell you where you were while you were in the bushes, where you were while there was an opportunity to open the topic, to mertively discuss it to see what was wrong and how to correct it in the future. But now you have a chance for a correctional exam. Now you have the opportunity to discuss first of all today, metrically, seriously, without inciting, without politicizing the problem that Croatia has. And the problem Croatia has is EU funds. And it's not just a question of the Solidarity Fund, it's not just a question of the Solidarity Fund, although it's been in the first place for the past few weeks. The fact is that competitions are not being debated and the fact is and that is what is particularly important is that EU funds in Croatia are not being used for purpose, for the purpose and for the purpose for which they are there. And the purpose of the EU funds is primarily to encourage projects that are good for the population of the entire EU, as well as the countries in which they are being launched, but also to reduce the differences in economic development that exist between Member States. And there is no need to be fooled by these differences. And one of the reasons why Croatia received so much funding in the years ahead is not the success of a single negotiator but a starting position. Those less developed countries, which need greater assistance, have more support, whose gross social product per capita is smaller, have received more especially when viewed towards the head of the population. So instead of boasting about how we're going to withdraw, and not withdrawing in reality the means that we have at our disposal, let's now talk about the real problem. And the real problem has exposed a terrible situation. The situation of Mrs. Grief and Mr. Petrice. The situation of 2 persons headed by the Ministry institutions and the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation who should have taken care of the use of EU funds for the purpose for which they are intended. The person against whom the criminal proceedings were brought. And after an unprecedented indignity by Croatian institutions, an indignity in which there was no intervention by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, crime would remain undiscovered and we would not be able to discuss it, but we are talking. The message we want to reach with this proposal and the goal we want to achieve with this proposal is a double. First of all, we want to determine whether the procedures now exist and how EU funds are made available to those who are meant to be good. Whether there is political pressure or things work the way they are imagined, and they are designed to be given to those who are the most prepared, those who have the best programmes and those whose programmes will contribute most to the development in and increase the development of our country or EU funds we assign to grandmothers and uncles, based on competitions, manipulation through the system. Unfortunately, I'm afraid this is another much more common case. It's part of the commission's work to discover the current state of affairs. The second part of the work why we propose the establishment of this investigative committee is to ensure that if the problems in functioning exist today, and let's not fool ourselves, we find a way to solve them and how we're going to remove them in the future. Is it possible to imagine the perfect system? It is. Is it actually possible to achieve it? Hardly. But what we have in Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues, is nowhere near perfection, except perhaps perfect theft. We had two governments, Andrej Plenkovic, of the two governments we had three ministers working on EU funds. One minister has been arrested for abuse of positions and powers and trading influencing the allocation of funds from eu funds. As I have already said, not on the basis of the work of Croatian state bodies, but on the basis of the fact that there is an Office of the European Public Prosecutor who saved his face here from the Croatian criminal prosecution system. We also have an arrest and director of the agency who should control the implementation of the projects and which should control whether the implementation of the projects violates EU laws and rules, whether it suits someone, whether it is done correctly. Why? Also for abuse of position and authority, for setting up tenders. But unfortunately from the moment we submitted this proposal to set up an investigative commission, we have new moments. We have the last few days of the fact that the new minister who came here after Mrs. Zhalac is talking about some threats again, he's talking about pressures again, he's talking about interventions in the system. That's what we got. And what haven't we got? We don't have competitions, we don't have what I said, as I was saying, European funds are scheduled. And for what, ultimately, in Croatia, are the funds from the eu funds used? They serve only to promote the Prime Minister who boasts that he has ensured his political ties that Croatia gets more than 20 billion euros, which is not true and the second is unfortunately, we have the personal benefit of individuals. And we have something else, we have competitions like the one from Petrinja, Banija, which has been interrupted, although some people have already been granted the funds, although some people have calculated that they have received the funds with employment, started the work with which they applied for the competition, and the competition has been suspended, the event was interrupted in the earthquake of the affected area, and we do not have a clear explanation of why this happened until today, and what are the real reasons why this debauchery happened to Croatia. The European funds and I will stress that, and I will talk about it, not only serve to promote, nor to enrich individuals. The European funds are here to use them to develop better, to develop more, European funds serve to get Croatia out of the EU's beginning, European funds are used to invest in our infrastructure, in our railways, in our roads. All morning we've been talking about hydrogen, European funds are here to conduct a green transition, not only to move away from the energys that are unprecedented today, but also to protect our environment. The European funds are here to invest them in our hospitals, in our schools to improve all our fellow citizens and citizens. The European funds are not there for Gabriela Zalac, Tomislav Petric and for everyone not involved, and I find it hard to believe that they were alone in this, we have OLAF today at the Ministry of Agriculture investigating everything. European funds are not there for individuals to make money on them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to support the establishment of this investigative committee, and I would ask my colleague Bencic to continue to explain why we proposed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99353	And I'd ask her to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99354	I thank the chairman. So, we know that, unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is largely dependent on EU funds in both economic and institutional separation. Instead of being subsidized, which is their main purpose, they are essential and fundamental, unfortunately for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Indirectly, the EU Council also acknowledged the decision to allocate 24.5 billion euros to Croatia for the financial period of 2021-2027 through its budget and the Recovery and Resistance Fund. It is not Prime Minister Plenkovic's fault that we from the Recovery and Resistance Fund have been given the most in the head of the EU's inhabitants. It's a shame 30 years of HDZ rule because if anyone had looked at the formula that calculates how much a country gets per capita, they'd see that we get a team the worse we are, the worse we are in GDP, the worse we are in employment, the worse we are in structure, etc. So, on the other hand, all the indicators in the EU at the bottom of the scale are that your prime minister boasts that we've got the most money. So maybe that's also his tactics, maybe it's a tactics that we're actually always taking to the bottom so the government can kneel as a political success that she got the most money from some funds, but then even when we get money from those funds that money is being spent, what parliamentary control exists over the spending of billions of euros that we get from EU funds? The case is not the first case and certainly is not the only case that has been established and confirmed that in part of the funds coming from the EU they are being manipulated to settle certain friendly, best man-made or party interests. The Central Finance and Contracting Agency is literally someone's cop and someone's best man. Who's the cop? The police officer is all those who have no political relationship, and in fact, SAFU in that part we have to say is doing a good job. Yes, they do good cost control, sometimes exaggerate, sometimes cancel people's public procurement for putting in criteria that are completely normal, especially for entrepreneurs, etc. which must also use the system, a certain different procurement system with the EU funds. But on the other hand, we see that some were truly godfathers and that, for example, the contest that was later under the DORH investigation, and today the EPO was blessed by the Director of SAFU. I claimed at the time that for Prime Minister Plenkovic, the problem was much greater, Mr Petric and the fact that he was covered by the investigation than Minister Žalac himself, who was already former minister at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99355	My colleague Bencic, just, just, just one second. Mr. Grumoja still stands, still applies to the mask rule for those who do not have plexiglas. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99356	All right, thank you. So there's a much bigger problem with Petric because he was renamed Plenkovic in 2020, 2nd. After he knew there was a case of the Grill, 2. After knowing that it was a competition in which a long-standing friend of Minister Žalac was favored, we all who worked on EU funds know very well what the relations were. The sting and Mr. Shimunca to whom she staged the contest, so 2. After that and a year after an investigation in the DORH has already been opened on the issue, Prime Minister Plenkovic confirms, however, that he is again the director of SAFU. At that point, the basic question is whether Prime Minister Plenkovic knows that the DORH will reject or stop him or bury him. And the key question of this investigative committee is who is all in the line of command, so until the prime minister knew that the director of SAFU had signed and arranged that the tender which was visible from the plane had been staged by the tender to pass. And that's what we're interested in, is it, apart from then Minister Žalac, other than Mr. Petrica, also knew some other ministers and whether he knew the prime minister himself. You see, it's hard for me to believe that it's not for the simple reason why if the Telegram journalist knew it, if he wrote about it, if he wrote about it in a way that he gave evidence that it was a staged contest, how it was possible that the prime minister didn't know it because if he didn't know it then we really had a dysfunctional government and systems, so that's why he should have resigned, and if he knew then he was an accomplice, then he was an accomplice because he didn't insist on quitting the persons who participated in it, that the DORH investigated until the end and started the proceedings on that issue, but he could say that it was possible to be investigated, but he was waiting for the DORH to bury everything until the thanks God EPO came to the scene and pulled the case out. However, the affair software is not the only affair that includes SAFU among other things. There is also the Slavonia Project through which donors, godfathers and relatives of members of the ruling party have been generously funded. Former Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic's godfather, Mario Abramovic, withdrew 1.4 million, and his former associate Mario Cajkulic, nearly 13 million kuna, for his OPG. And the son of the HDZ parliamentary representative, then Parliament's Steve Culej, received 370,000 kunas for his OPG, Domagoj Culej. The companies of the richest Slavons and HDZ financier Mark Pipunić and Mirko Ervančić withdrew more than 160 million kuna, while in Vukovar, the company Jet-set, Jet-set Zlatko Zovka, a HDZ donor, received nearly 10 million kuna. The other day here I was saying that actually the issue of corruption and nepotism will be opened when we start to monitor not only the SAFU but also the Agricultural Payment Agency because it is, agricultural incentives are through which most of the money has gone to the likes of the country, which, on the other hand, have a lot of hectares, on the continuum of hectares get incentives, and they produce nothing or a bit unlike those of the OPGs that actually produce, can't get to the state country, they work on a couple of hectares, but then they're either too competitive or not enough to get incentives. And that's what we're looking for in this committee. We are looking for this investigative committee to investigate whether there were other types of benefits within SAFU, whether the exact claims and some officials and employees had had an impact on how to look at some through public procurement and others not. Is it true that sometimes it affected whether or not a correction will be given to someone, and then to those to whom SAFU is a policeman, the corrections are paid, and those to whom SAFU is the best man do not pay the corrections? The question we also want to explore is whether the control we now have is enough or is insufficient and we need additional control at the level of the entire system and including parliamentary control of spending funds because the amount of funds we now have in the future speaks of, of course, that we could use them to develop Croatia, but also to all of us who have been watching what's going on here for 30 years, is also talking about the green transformation and digitalisation of Croatia because we see that very often contracts for the IT sector are the ones in which public procurement is being set up, could be the next HDZ's El Dorado. And that's what we don't want to allow. And you, if you want to say that this will not be the case and that you really have the will to prevent and investigate all crime associated with EU funds, then you will support this commission. But if you don't want who we believe you don't want then of course you'll vote against the commission as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99357	Thank you very much. No, because this one you went back inside and you didn't have a mask you're going to tell all of us first that you're going to put on a mask and you're going to go outside and then I'm going to give you my word that you're talking because I know that, I know it's absurd. There's a lot of absurd things, for example. to speak without a mask. I agree with you on the scale of things, but I don't agree with what the presidency has arranged for everyone to stick to it, and one doesn't stick to it. First replicas, first you're right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99358	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club. It is scandalous that on such an important topic where we have key people involved in the affairs surrounding the allocation of European funds, so former Minister Žalac, now these pressures that the new Minister Tramišak is talking about that there is no one from the ministry, so European funds as we speak about this important topic. I want to ask here how many mistakes have we lost public funds because of our purchases and corrections? According to our team of experts, about 50 million euros. And this is not an important topic for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry itself. I also ask the question how many proceedings did the DORH initiate on the basis of irregularities arising from public procurement procedures where the contracting authorities lost millions of kunas of taxpayers? What concerns me, so I'm the layman, but the minister is saying that this system of e-funds is now the one that gave it to Finni in safe state hands. Does the minister say there was no insurance for the audit trail, and this trail is in the e-funds system and does Prime Minister Plenkovic know about it? These are all very important questions. I'm not talking about affairs and names right now. I am talking about the entire system of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. Mr. Bacicu may be a disgrace to you that there is no one from the government at this time, from the ministry while we talk about the money our taxpayers are losing, our citizens. So, like I said, it's about 50 million euros, and it's about to lose. 30m euros intended for agriculture. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99359	Stanka, a break, a break is granted, and we have a breach of Mr. Bačić's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, a colleague of Grmoja insults other MPs, but insults and common sense and points to the basic ignorance of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the debate on this document does not imply the presence of the government. If he wanted to be shown here, then he should have collected signatures for another document with which he obviously had problems because he did not support the rest of the opposition in order to be given here. members of the government and the Prime Minister. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99361	Thank you very much, you know that there's no more false allegations and that's a warning because it was, because it was a false quote or replica, and I don't know what, but it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And now of course it goes on, now the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been sought Wait, wait, let me see, I see the conversation, you can. [[Intruder: Rules of Procedure...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99362	Rules of Procedure of Article 238, I have not told my colleague, Bacic, anywhere, that the Rules of Procedure are understood. It is a matter of the fundamental decency and responsibility of a government that loses considerable resources and which also loses funds on corruption by sharing funds with its friends, acquaintances, relatives, party colleagues. And if you think our farmers, our citizens don't deserve the presence of the government as we discuss this The important topic is your problem, not mine. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99363	It was, it was a replica, it's going, there's a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I said it offends common sense, this is the kind of approach I have for my colleagues, and I'm staying here. As far as the government's presence is concerned, the government has best said this about attracting EU funds in terms of absolute and relative on the one hand, and on the other hand by decision-making competent authorities, supervisory authorities [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] who say that Croatia has the least crime when it is in [[Intruder: Time.]] the use of European funds. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99365	I could answer you as a psychologist by reason of my common sense, but I need to give you a line as chairman, a pardon as president. Ma'am, ma'am... Who was it looking for? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mrs. Selak Rasdic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99366	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. Maybe this isn't just a matter of elemental question, maybe it's a matter of elemental lack of capacity because it might just be a silence that at this point there's no one from the government to come here to justify their actions when we talk about the use of funds from eu funds, maybe the minister isn't a minister anymore, and maybe a few more members of the government. It's gone in the meantime. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99367	The warning, it was a replica. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99368	Thank you very much. Art. The 238th colleague Selak, along with his colleague Grumo, apparently as the drama champions here in this assembly, has once again insisted on something that has nothing to do with the rules of procedure and persists in it. That says enough about the level of what they sign, what they require and what they actually want. And in the debate, we will show how bad they are not only in ignorance but also in their own badness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99369	It was a replica, a warning. And now, finally, I would like to invite my colleague, Pejo Gribn, to answer, not to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99370	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99372	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. We're looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to try to focus the debate on what's important. And it is important for respected colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ that in Croatia the procedures for the way the EU funds will be used are not working. And you can talk about what you're talking about right now, you can talk about badness here right now, but the facts are different. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated proceedings against the former minister and member of the HDZ government for the procedures it has carried out in the course of its official duties and against the Director of the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency, which should monitor how EU funds are used. It's an independent agency, it's an agency that shouldn't put political pressures on us, and we've got funding all over our grandmothers and uncles. Some people look through their fingers, some people can do anything, some people can do it wrong, well, 25% correction, 25% correction. A completely unequal criterion and we all know about it, and we all pretend it's not happening. That's the reality we want to talk about. And as for Mrs. Tramišak, it would be good if she were here, she'd have opportunities, not through the media, but here to the council representatives to tell her who's threatening her. Is it true that she is threatened by a special advisor to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, is that true? Let him say it. You'd have a chance. You'd have a chance. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] But he won't, he won't. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99373	Time, time. Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99374	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow coat of arms, I'd love to, so he's hurt. In 238, I would like you to use that gleam, as you have now spoken, to Mr Grgić, for example, which is first covered by the procedure by the European Delegated Prosecutor and to mention these objects which have mass in you. And what my colleague Boric said, or we'll talk about it in an argument, so it's really about matter, or we'll go on like this. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99375	Of course there's a warning because it was a replica. Mr. Pavić is in violation of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99376	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, the minister today also denied that there were any pressures or threats from Mr Savic and Mr Savic clearly denied it. If there was anyone it was reported to the police to investigate, but don't give it up falsely. This point doesn't mean that the government is here, you could have collected signatures for interpretation, so it wouldn't be, like this, but don't fake things that aren't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99377	Thank you, time. A warning because it was a replica with a big request for the parties to meet and to change that Rules of Procedure so that we have all a little bit more freedom, but I have to apply it. Mrs. Rose Wolf's break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99378	I thank the chairman. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club For a just Croatia for 10 minutes to point out once again the importance of this topic. So what our citizens read daily in the media about affairs that actually the media themselves managed to detect, that's not all. There's still a series of situations, a series of affairs that we're just about to hear, that the media is about to discover. I'd point to two important things. One of them is that in fact, the rules of competitions that are being discussed by our ministries, which in particular our OPGs fail to report, are created by workers within the Ministry of Agriculture itself, so our OPGs, the OPG holders, cannot reach EU funds because the ministry considers them either too old or too small or too large, and in fact the ministry eliminates them. In parallel, we look at situations that suit millions of individuals. Of course, it turns out that individuals are ruling options. It's not that weird. Of course it's about corruption. The second thing that the public does not know is that Croatia from our budget, therefore from taxpayers' money, is still paying compensation for the first projects that we have done through the Rural Development Programme when the implementation started to pay off to certain companies, so the processes are being conducted in courts, and the processes are regularly being lost by our ministry, and the millions of damages are being paid to taxpayers' money. That's what we've been pointing to, that's what we're pointing to today, but obviously there's no one to hear it. The question is how many more Croatian village of such conjectures, other such corruption affairs can endure before it completely collapses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99379	Stanka approves. Mr. Pavić, Marko Pavić is also taking a break, a reason for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99380	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to further consult, and also to explain to citizens the value of EU funds in the development of Croatia, the role of the government in drawing these funds, but also to explain the system of control of the entire system. There are 4 levels of control in Croatia itself, so the individual institution PT2, then the managing body that are 3 ministries, then the national fund that cleans up the Ministry of Finance and the ARPA Agency. All these reports show that there are no systematic errors, an APRA annual report, an OLAF annual report showing that we are among the better, in 2020 only 3 applications, we are in the final ranking. The European Commission is then audited and the European Court of Auditors comes afterwards, their annual report for 2020 has not been found a single error. And corruption has a name and a last name, it happens in other countries. We have a situation that a month ago in Stuttgart, the same EU funds, 2 billion euros which has grown to 8 billion euros for the subway, but the conclusions of these reports say we have acquired a reasonable guarantee regarding the proper functioning of the OPC system. When we talk about the amount of funds, it is precisely the merit of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. The only time the system didn't work best, when it was, was when Minister Mrsic had a payment ban or when he was So for the former governments there was no [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Milanovic lost a billion euros, and now that Plenkovic has secured that happiness. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99381	Stanka, the break is approved, the break is approved and now Mrs. Devereaux. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure]] Ban Vlahek's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99382	Thank you. Mr. Pavić hurt his ankle. In 238, it is false and thus disdains parliamentarians. He noted that OLAF's annual report is impeccable and good, however, in 2020. The OLAF annual report cites the problems of public procurement manipulation in the use of European funds in the event of the construction of the winery, and recommends that OLAF return the EUR 1.3 million to the European Commission and inform the DORH of everything. So much for the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99383	Time. It was a replica or at the very least this false allegation, so there's a warning going on. Mr. Pavić, you insist, I gave a warning... But I gave a warning, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99384	Thank you very much. What you... Art. 238. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] OLAF is clear for 2020 that Croatia is from behind, that there were only 3 applications. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The DORH is involved in... The network. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This assembly voted, we shouldn't have a European prosecutor, five countries are gone, we could have been among them. Therefore, according to all these reports, we are among the better in terms of and there is no systematic corruption, corruption has a name and name.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99385	Time, thank you very much and of course a reminder. It's a replica, Mrs. Pryce. Peovic has a reason for the break?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99386	Yes, thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes to discuss this important topic and to rely on what is said here to really say that other countries in Europe are familiar with the problem of corruption. The comparison of our country with other countries might come and lead us to some conclusions that actually complicate the whole story. So my position is and the view of the RF is that at all convergence is questionable whether it can happen using EU funds in view of both their purpose and the amount of funds that are available to us at all. It is the same illusion that is really often present in public space, so it seems that only here we have to solve the matter of corruption, so things will be simpler, but we really have to say that in this situation that we are now going to discuss with Minister Tramišak, who is in some way the minister of former Sadac and we are actually witnessing an internal struggle on the issue of who was more corrupt, one or the other, we will come to see that what is once declared by the development of domestic software often represents a really one brutal client story that I will try to develop in my individual debate on behalf of the club, where you have meaning Omega software company in which the co-owner was otherwise also a Miroslav Škoro who, as well as a series of our companies, represents a socialism for the rich, and indeed capitalism for the poor, meaning for the companies there is no free market, these are all companies that work with the state and which receive the largest amount of the free market, at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99387	Thank you very much, it's approved, the break is approved, and I think we all agree that we're moving on right now, Mr. coat of arms. So, first of all, the replicas to the part of Mr. Grbino's exposure, Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99388	Mr. Grbino, political responsibility is the foundation of a stable democratic order. In this you could be seen as a symbol of the European Social Democracy of Willy Brandt if you consider yourself a Social Democrats because with what right you and your party can personally investigate HDZ in corruption, so you are the older brother of HDZ in corruption, from Goran Štrok to Damir Vrhovnik. You are personally responsible for 700 million kunas lost by Croatian taxpayers in Ulanik because you personally advocated by Prime Minister Plenkovic that the dual management of the Uljaniks was given a state guarantee when it was clear that the Uljanik had already failed. When we add to this a harmful concession contract for Zagreb airport signed by your Hajdas Doncic or a harmful lease for the Ministry of Environment signed by former Minister Zmajlovic, then the question is really asked, how are you not embarrassed to talk to the Croatian public about corruption when you are corruption yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99389	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99390	Wait, wait, wait. I have to give you my word. Please, even though I could answer that question, was that the same opinion I was? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99391	May I respond to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99392	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99394	Mr. Chairman, this is too serious a debate for you to be kidding around here right now and making jokes. and all at the expense of the Croatian public [[Good, good.]] Not good, this is the most legislative body and you're messing around here, and it's about Croatian citizens and our money. [[Good, good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99395	Mrs. Kristo, give me a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99396	Dear Mrs. Vidović Kristo, if I am indeed as much a criminal as you show me, if I am really involved in so many crimes as you claim, then the establishment of an investigative commission that can then be dealt with by me is the right way to go. Support him, vote for the establishment of this investigative committee, so if I've broken the law, if I'm really that big a ball, let's figure it out. And no, I'm not ashamed, however, it's my job, my job, my responsibility to stand here in front of the citizens and citizens of this country and ask when I see things go wrong to examine it, to investigate it, to determine it, first of all, to change it, and then those responsible for such a state of punishment If you want us to do this, support the establishment of this investigative committee, if it's not clear, you're saying one thing, and you're doing the other. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99397	... We'll all wait together and then we'll give Mrs. Kristo a break to the Rules of Procedure. [[Specially enabled.]] You put it on? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99398	Art. 237, Mr. Chairman, regarding your conduct of the session and of the article. 238 related to Mr. Grbin. You can avoid the answer, you can continue to cover yourself with ears related to these specific things that I am talking about here, when and when you will have to answer for 700 million kunas for which you too are responsible that Croatian taxpayers have lost that money because eventually the time will come for us to arrange this country and everyone will be called to account. Until then, thank God people no longer trust you in your replacement thesis or your manipulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99400	So I think we're clear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99401	There was a replica going on a reminder. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99402	Thank you. I have to refer to this briefly, I think, Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, that you belong on that side of the pay phone. While we were issuing guarantees for the Oily Boats, the ships were being built, but to move on to what was important. A new affair came up the other day in the media...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99403	Excuse me, Mrs. Radolovic, you're replicating Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99404	Yes, yes, here I go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99405	But you have to point that out, Mrs. Kristo, you can't replicate it. Here you go...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99406	Time to give it back to me now. Regarding the latest affair, we have seen how you comment on the fact that Minister Tramišak continues with well-tagged trails of Minister Gabriela Žalac, that she cancelled the competition for petrinian entrepreneurs the other day, because, five months later, she found that the contest that was opened by her administration for assisted areas at the head, which Katica Miskovic was accused of saying, or that the suspect in the Horvat affair had been annulled because, after five months, Tramišak realized that this competition for petrini entrepreneurs was also announced by the fastest finger and that of the 124 applications of 16 entrepreneurs received his funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99407	Thank you very much. Answer to Mrs. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99408	Thank you, colleague. So this competition has two aspects to talk about. One is the scandalous fact that it's been five months, that people have taken certain actions, that people are going to realize their business ventures and they won't be able to realize them. And what effect this has on Petrinja, an area affected by the earthquake, is not to be particularly explained. But the second question it raises is the question of the fastest finger model. In the model, the fastest finger means not the best but the ones who were lucky to have their application gone first and then it doesn't matter if you meet the basic criteria whether your project is better, worse, purposeful or whatever, no, just speed. And the impact on society, nobody cares about that. And why is that done? Because these ministry gentlemen are just easier, not getting to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99409	Time, time. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99410	Thank you very much. Dear fellow coat of arms. Not long ago we could have seen Prime Minister Plenkovic's claims that this is his new HDZ that has nothing to do with Sanader's HDZ, and here you can see in the media I found one title, quoting him as "Sanader was stealing for himself, and Plenkovic allows others to steal to rule easier". And now, in this investigative committee, it is required, among other things, to answer the question in which President Plenkovic knew, therefore, that Prime Minister Plenkovic knew about the criminal activities of his party colleagues and what his responsibility was. How do you comment on the fact that the Minister in the current government, Tramišak, first addresses the media rather than his superior, so to Prime Minister Plenkovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99411	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99412	Thank you, colleague. So, the thing is very simple, if he knew then he was co-responsible, and if he didn't know then the question is what he was doing at all, whether he cared at all about an important system on which his words allegedly rest future development of the Republic of Croatia. That's the facts. And when you ask me about Mrs. Tramišak's case, it's amazing that the first crime case is being committed, the possible criminal offence is being spoken to in the media, and then it's being notified to the police. And don't be angry, but what happened to severe death is unusual and raises a number of questions. And that's why I'm sorry there's no opportunity for a minister who can today, but she doesn't have to be here, she doesn't have to, you're right, she doesn't have to, but she may not have come and taken advantage of to open up here to a number of questions that exist. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99413	Mrs. Steel, Mrs. Steel, no, no, I know, I know, but I've raised my tone, it's not desirable, because on this side I've heard, and here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99414	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Grbin, you have sent yourself to the correctional exam today because last time you discussed your last proposal to set up an investigative committee, you obviously learned nothing from this debate, and you did not understand what it says in the Law on Investigation Commissions. As you did then, you also asked the question and the area too broadly, and Article 3. The law on investigating committees tells you that the question can be asked for, in fact, that an investigative commission can be established for each individual question being explored. And you've set the area so that it applies to the entire management and use system of the European Fund, and there are 11 issues that you've listed and that are all general and I don't see how this investigation committee would work. This is how you set her up. [[Thank you very much.]] is actually a theme for one thematic [[Intruder: Time, time.]] a session on the body's mother's work. [[Intruder: Mrs. Jelkovac, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99415	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99416	One thematic session on the parent body lasts at best 5-6 hours. And now you're telling me that 5-6 can discuss something that's too wide for the work of an investigative committee that would work for six months. So am I the one who walks into a logical trap called "notoral nonsense" or is it you who jump out with a claim like this? But I'll tell you exactly what I told you last time. If you consider that the only mistake in the proposal to set up an investigative committee is that the area and the research objective is too wide, you can resolve this error in 10 to 15 minutes by going to your office, write an amendment that will suggest that this decision be corrected, and we will consider this amendment and if it is acceptable. Do it and show if you're working or just talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99417	Here you are, Mrs. Jelkovac, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99418	Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because a colleague of the coat of arms insults MPs with his own response. So this is incorrigible, you know that very well. This proposal cannot be corrected by amendments. And you decide whether as a lawyer there will be politics in front of the principle of legality. Perhaps now as president of the SDP, you are still more resorting to politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99419	Thank you very much, this course note was a replica, and besides that Mr. Grbin has set two hypotheses on who's stupid is that, so I can't say that he insulted anyone he is, because he's put up a hypothesis that he can be stupid someone on this side or someone on this side is right. Mrs. Rose the Wolf's Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99420	Thank you. The esteemed colleagues of Grbin, hence Croatian public or Croatian citizens, could read in the media these days that after the arrest of Minister Horvat, USKOK was also in the premises of the Ministry of Agriculture, or belonging to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture and took over documentation for the so-called i.e. a collokiously named wine envelope prepared in its own time by Minister Tolusic. He applied for the competition and made millions of dollars out of the envelope. We listen parallelly to our OPGs, so they say they can't reach European funds, and now they're still threatened to run out of 30 million euros that they're supposed to get through direct payments, and all because someone's been favored by certain corrupt actions in which these small OPGs didn't participate at all. Can our village actually withstand such a burden of corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99421	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99422	I would describe Minister Tolusic's actions as follows. I've been preparing, I've got it. It is logical, then, that the competent authorities to investigate criminal offences come, exclude documentation and investigate. And what will reveal I hope that we will not have to wait again for years, that we will not have to wait again for the intervention from the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but that the findings about which Croatian media have been very detailed, very exhaustively written lately will be translated very quickly into concrete actions of the body of investigative persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99423	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99424	Dear Mr Grbin, when there is any suspicion of systematic corruption in the system there are sanctions from Brussels, which are the suspension of payments, blockades or suspensions of funds held by Hungary, they have the Czech Republic. Croatia has none of that. We are so far in plus 55 billion kuna. When we talk about the National Recovery Programme they got us, they gave us 838m euros in advance, and now we've got 700m euros in return through a request for compensation because we're 5 per success in Europe in the NPO. So, if there were any suspicion of systematic corruption Brussels would react. And that Prime Minister Plenkovic is not successful, that this is a follow-up, enough says Zoran Milanovic lost a billion euros because he did not react Done at Brussels, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on regulation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99425	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99426	This week we read about a 30m-euro stop in agriculture. That doesn't exactly match what you're saying. When I listen to what you said earlier, everything is ideal, and then what the bodies of the prosecution in the ministries, agencies, etc., what they are, are we just imagining seeing them, or do they really exist, do something and write accusations. The Grief case is the best denial of everything you've said. And don't think I'm happy about what's going on. I'm not because the consequences will be felt by all the citizens of this country, everyone. And not only political but also financial, and that's not good for anyone. That's not good. And that's why we want this to be explored to the ground, and you decide whether or not you want to, someone will eventually have to. To explore. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99427	Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99428	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague of the coat of arms is not said to be in the people that the fish smell like a head. I remind you, says Minister Tramišak, that threats to the involvement of a private company and the influence of the company at the award of European funds from September and August of last year, and she has only now reported these threats to the police. She didn't say anything to her boss until today. Is it because he actually knows all this? If he knows it, then there is no Minister Tramišak need to report it specifically or he knows it because he is the one who directed the minister to assign the job to Finni, and FINA to hire another company or to simply change the clan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99429	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99430	What happened in that case is literally that one clan replaced the other. And that's a fact. And I'm going to repeat what I said before. It is very unusual for me that, in the context of your conduct and not any other, responsible public duties of the minister, you will receive threats, not to inform the police or yourself directly, because it is not only yourself that you are safeguarding but also the dignity of the work you are doing. If you're under that kind of pressure, it's questionable how normal you can function at all, and then you go to the media, then you create a circus, then today you're talking to each other, tomorrow you're talking to each other. It was a good opportunity to come to the Croatian Parliament today and open up to the public, and not in controlled conditions to say what was, but this opportunity was not used. Why? That's the only Mrs. Tramišak can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99431	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99432	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, here we are as we discuss this investigation committee in Pula the SDP coalition has fallen apart and we can. I hope you, as a newly roasted Zagrebian, don't have your fingers in it because I know how much you care about the city of Pula, and I hope it's not a template for a future one. the current power in Zagreb, but I will return to the commission. You stated here that you would explore the system of availability of funds and suggest that the system started in 2016. What were your former colleagues, colleagues of Greece and all the other ministers doing with that system? Either you admit it wasn't there, that it was ineffective or you forgot about the affairs that were out there, everything, even under the investigation of the DORH and the USKOK that lasted for 5 and 6 years, but there's no result. Let us only remember the former Minister of Agriculture and those situations when they refused to pay for our incentives until it was determined that the tender was carried out and that the companies of the daughters received the funds. And now you say here are just a few systems of these examples of fresh And everything else doesn't matter. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] If we're going to system Then be correct at first. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99433	You made yourself clear, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99434	Dear counterpart Boric, the investigative commission, if established, has representatives who come from the majority order and representatives who come from the opposition's order. Those from the majority have a larger number of people in the investigation commission and they decide on every issue that will be put on the table on the agenda to discuss the investigation committee. Let us establish an investigative committee and if there is any doubt, if there is any doubt that there were problems both before and later and later on and left and at the centre anywhere, no matter where, bring them to the commission, let us investigate them. Let's find out whether the system works or not. But I'll tell you again, the European Public Prosecutor's Office wouldn't be here, arresting the minister. And the director of SAFU that everything's fine. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99435	Mr. Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99436	Thank you. Dear colleague Grbin, you have explained well why it is important to establish an investigative commission. You've explained this methodologically with pipes. You explained well why this is important for a country that is on the corruption index in 63 places right next to Montenegro, which is 64. But when you started listing the numerator, maybe there was a missing denominator. So, your number was the affair Software Žalac, the ceremony of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem Franjo Lucić, Ivan Mošar, Branko Pilaš, Josip Alardović, Marijan Alardović, Marija Sarić, Branko Pilaš, Tolušić, Culej, Djakić, Kirin, Galić, for God's sake Slavko Rajović, Zlatko Zovko, Marko Pipunić, Mirko Erlečić, And you know what's wrong, the denominator, the denominator, I haven't heard the good denominator. [[Thanks, we don't, we don't have time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99437	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99438	Here's a thank-you to the esteemed Vice President who actually went to answer for me because what the esteemed Mr. Vice President said was true. We don't have time to count all these affairs that have a common denominator of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99439	You see how we from Pula agree. Mr. Greek, Mr. Greek has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see that my colleague, Boric, and you probably don't know who the head of SAFU was before these dignitaries mentioned here either. One very professional person, HDZ is extremely acceptable, and yet it has been removed. And why should I think that person's been removed? Is it because she was independent, and I claim from my experience, that she was absolutely independent and unsuspecting. She remained in the HDZ government, and was removed from the post of SAFU chief. Why? That's the key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99441	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99442	Dear fellow, I have listened very carefully to you. Some things you said exactly, you said a professional person, you said an independent person, you said an unsuspecting person, but what you said about HDZ being acceptable is somehow not holding water. I'm sorry, but it doesn't go together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99443	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99444	Dear Vice President, Mr. Grbin, you are constantly trying and constantly relativizing the fact that this very government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic has provided and has allowed almost 20 billion euros in use by the Republic of Croatia. You keep saying that this is due to poorer development, lower GDP, etc., and you deliberately ignore the fact that the Republic of Croatia is the last to enter the EU that it has had the worst starting position, that it has passed Homeland work. And I will also remind you that it was your government with Mr. Greek in that ministry that divided into two statistical regions and the classification of Slavonia together with Zagreb in the statistical region that made it impossible for Slavonia to steal hundreds of millions of euros. That Slavonia will never forget you, remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99445	Answer. Yes answer, said answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99446	Thank you. So first, it was not the government of the Republic of Croatia that provided the funds but rather the EU. Secondly, you said yourself, you yourself have said what are the criteria that the EU has led to and the reasons from late entry to low development. Look at the tables, compare the data to the number, the amount per capita, and you'll understand. Developed countries have been given smaller, undeveloped countries more depending on the degree of their underdevelopedness. When Croatia was divided into two statistical regions, the reason for this was clear. So to ensure that all parts of the Republic of Croatia can compete for EU funds, no one has been damaged, but the road to certain environments has been opened by such division and each division And with every division, we'll find [[Thank you very much.]] within the statistical region of those who are more and those who are less developed and so are the ones that you... [[Thank you, thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99447	Thank you, sir, thank you, thank you. Mr. Greek, Injury, was it a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99448	Injury of the Rules of Procedure that, excuse me, time now...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99449	No, no, okay. All right, I agree. [[Intruder: On time he answered.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99450	I called in just in time. So, Mr. Vice President, it's a tough word that we stole something from someone. We gave someone something when we were government and giving and there was never a political key. This is what many of your mayors, the mayors, can confirm both fellow Boric and many others. So, never was the political key used in that time. And as far as these two regions are concerned, you've heard. So it was a time when it wasn't possible otherwise. Zagreb had over 800 thousands of people couldn't have been a particular region. [[Intruder: Thank you, it was a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99451	It was a replica, a warning. Mr. Thunderbolt who conveniently put on a mask so he could take it off and answer it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99452	So you're making me do this idiotism, I'm not responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99453	Well, I'm not pushing you, I'm not going to let you go without a mask, but I'm not pushing you, I'm pushing you, but I'm making a deal for the presidency where you're sitting and yours isn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99454	Yeah, yeah, okay, okay. You said in your opening statement that the European Public Prosecutor's Office saved the face of our DORH. I absolutely disagree with you, I think the European Public Prosecutor's Office has actually brought down any illusion of the credibility of our DORH. And I also want to ask you a question do you know how many DORH procedures have been initiated on the basis of irregularities arising from public procurement procedures where public contracting authorities have lost millions of kunas from our taxpayers? And here, if you don't know, you'd be begging someone from the ranks of the ruling to answer this question when there's no one from the ministry, from the government on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99455	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99456	That would be one of the questions that could be asked and discussed if the investigation committee were established. And this would be a very legitimate question to give an answer and to determine how much Croatia is losing out of EU funds because of corruption, the slower, the weaker we are, the worse we develop because of it. And as for this first one, if it hadn't been for the European Public Prosecutor's Office, this would have turned out to be a serious, severe disgrace and disgrace. And what we witnessed from the DORH when they practically jumped from day to day into their mouths about who initiated the procedure, who kept the object in the drawer, etc., was also the reason why we asked to initiate the procedure for resolving the state's chief attorney. A specific case [[Intruder: Thank you.]] concrete treatment. [[Intruder: Thanks a good time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99457	Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99458	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Grbin, every potential misdemeanor or misdemeanor has its name and last name first of all, not the party. However, in your exposé, I have not heard the name of Mr. Greek, Mr. Grgic, Mayor of Nova Gradiška, I have not heard the name of Mr. Jakovina, etc., but I have also not heard that you have also pointed out the importance of the mechanism of oversuming innocence which says that everyone is innocent until the court tells him otherwise, and not you or anyone else. You also pointed out that quote, the problem is funds. The funds are a problem for you because while you were in power, you consumed the European funds only 9% which is a shame. And this government, this one's Boring [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time, time.]] agreed 125% [[Intruder: Time, time.]] European funds. [[Intruder: Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99459	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99460	300 colleagues, 300. Give me five cards, give me five cards to keep us calm. Dear colleagues, I made it very clear that anyone who has violated the law in any way has sinned to act may be the subject of investigating this commission regardless of the party card and party membership. However, will you say that I am lying or at least I am not telling the truth when I make the following claims. Gabriele Žalac is being prosecuted. There's a criminal case against Petrica. He's been arrested. Horvat is being prosecuted. Aladrovic is being prosecuted. Milosevic is being prosecuted. Ministry You don't get it. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99461	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99462	Thank you, dear Vice President. You're a lawyer and a colleague of Bencic's a lawyer and I'm a lawyer. You've performed here as a politician and I'm sorry because something we learned in law school no matter what you're a politician you should still respect. We should respect at least a law on the investigative commission which has only 20 articles when you have already prepared this proposal. I understand that you wanted to avoid the trap of Article 4 despite the fact that you have laminate here most of the time today about counterpart Žalac, about Petric, and this cannot be the subject of this investigative committee, is Article 4 speaking for all the proceedings that have been initiated cannot be the subject of an investigative committee. In order to avoid this, you have entered a second trap, which is Article 3. Which tells you very clearly these 11 questions that you have raised here are so general and undefined that I also cannot be the subject of this investigation committee. But you know that well, and now in a public appearance, you're actually avoiding it, you're only talking about this topic. The investigation committee. [[Time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99463	Thank you, Mr. Habian. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99464	Let's take it in a row. First and foremost, neither you nor my colleague Bencic nor I are lawyers here today. We are representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have received the trust of citizens and citizens of this country to represent their interests. That's our job. We're getting paid for it right now. That's what we should be doing. Our legal knowledge can be an additional benefit, as for example, the economic knowledge of a colleague of Greece represents a benefit in better conduct of his/her task or public duties. We are here today first and foremost discussing political responsibility. The other bodies deal with criminal responsibility. But let's not fool ourselves, dear colleague, let's not fool ourselves. There was a reason why we realized this was necessary to investigate. The occasion has the name and name of Gabriela Žalac and Tomislav Petric. And just one thing. Is this undefined, how much supervision has been carried out for malfeasances with EU funds in which institutions the results of the investigation. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Is that an indefinitely respected colleague of yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99465	Injury, breach of the Rules of Procedure, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99466	... And laws. [[Specially enabled.]] One of the laws is this law on the investigative committee that we are discussing today on the basis of which you are seeking the establishment of this commission and you are now saying that you are here as a parliamentary representative, and you are not a lawyer. Okay, then read it this way if you adopt this law and violate the rules, and you swear to this Croatian Assembly as the parliamentary representative you call upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99467	I'm sorry, but listen to this story with the lawyers, it's a little bit over the border. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ is a philosopher, I'm a psychologist, what can we do at home then, I think if it's about that, what are we going to do here? It's a warning. Let's move on. Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99468	Thank you very much. You said that the EU fund system is not good. I must point out that the system was set up by the SDP government and that we agree for sure and unfortunately that system was not working at all at that time, the competition was not at all, and what was also found under the public's glass, and also a little further, let's say in the agriculture sector, it was also mentioned by counterpart Bencic and Vukovac. Don't generalize and talk about the system that it's not good because that's how you underestimate all those who work in that system. We've already said every store, especially the corrupt one has a name and a last name, and it should be brought out. Well, while you're at it, give it a little bit of correction and say it a little bit wider. We already mentioned some people, some names, say that the company's biggest donor, Zoran Milanovic, also received funds from the Slavonia Project. The thesis that it is a shame to provide large funds for the Republic of Croatia is at least offensive My city suffered in the Homeland War. [[Thank you very much.]] Injury and u [[Intruder: Time, time.]] The last five years have changed. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99469	Dear colleagues, this last thing you said was a lie. What I've been saying all along, you can't replicate it again, but you're replicating it, turn it around, turn it around. So I'm saying what's a fact. And this is that the funds that are allocated from the EU budget to individual Member States do not depend on the godliness of the Prime Minister, but rather on the facts of the level of development of each Member State. And it can't get a developed member by the head of the population more than undeveloped because it doesn't, therefore, meet the purpose of these funds. And when you mention names, there's more, there's Kuščević, there's Sanader. There is. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99470	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99471	A fellow coat of arms was injured by an officer. 238, because he said I was lying. I am lying about this last time I said that my city suffered great damage, and here the former Regional Development Minister is very well aware of the intervention plan that should have been given small war-torn cities where the town of Pakrac and the town of Lipik were not. The government of Andrej Plenkovic was not concerned about my city, we failed to withdraw money from the eu funds, we had 16 prepared projects with building permits And that's why it's growing now. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99472	It was a replica because the Rules of Procedure that you've drawn up together doesn't deal with truth or lies, and then I have to give you a warning. Make a new Rules of Procedure as I suggested before and then we'll talk another way, but that's the case. And he knows very well, Mr. coat of arms, that's why he says yes. Mr. Greek, go ahead. Because he's a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I won't tell a lie, but at the very least, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's a lie. And look at the fact that we are now in the 3rd month of 2022, it's like the 3rd month of 2015 at the beginning of the financial perspective. At this time in 2015, all operational programmes were accepted by the European Commission, and you don't have any more or talk about it. that he will be accepted. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] Therefore We have a serious problem, that's what I'm talking about, a serious problem. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Grcic, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99474	Mr. Greek's warning. Look, you too, Mr. Hubbin, have used one syntagma, yes, a lie isn't a lie, but perhaps it's not true that one of Mr. Hebrang's representatives has all been harassing one whole term together, so I'd ask you to keep an eye on these things. And you said that, and Mr. Greek said that lying and not telling the truth are two different things, that's what Mr. Hebrang once said, and all the newspapers put him on a pillar of shame. Mrs. Voter, vice president of replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99475	Thank you very much. We mention fellow coat of arms quite today in today's debate former Minister Žalac, for which, among other things, it is extremely important for such cases to establish such an investigative commission to prevent such things in the future. However, we are unfairly neglecting this Minister Tramišak, so I think it is time to take the gold off of it a little while, although I believe it will be heard a lot more in the coming period. So, Mrs Tramišak, a few days ago, with one move, has been devoid of a tender for the award of EU funds to entrepreneurs in the Petrinja area, and it would not be strange to see more such tenders being cancelled, however, this has not only been implemented but financing and grant decisions have also been made. Now I ask you, what went wrong? Didn't the ones from the jokebox that should have gone through? Or they passed right through you so they did. [[Thank you, thank you.]] A little bit of fear over the epilogues of some cases, so this crazy decision happened. [[Intruder Radin: Answer, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99476	Mrs. Voter, we can't. Here's Mr. Grub's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99477	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, it's been almost half a year since that competition was called, or since people could apply, and then he cancels out, and it's been more than a week today, and we don't know the concrete answers to why it happened. We just hear some excuses, just excuses and nothing more than an apology. And the reality is that individuals who thought they had succeeded in the competition have already set out to realise their business activities. People are busy, equipment's been bought what's gonna happen to that? What message is being sent to people with an earthquake of damaged areas? Mrs. Tramišak will have to answer that clearly for what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99478	Thank you. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99479	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the very beginning, you and your colleague coat of arms began to feel that we were not going to politicise, that we were going to present facts and that we had a problem with the use of EU funds, so if, thanks to them, we would have more than 20 billion kuna per year, of 10.7 billion euros, we had agreed over 13.4 billion kuna. I have to do one piece of the euro, I have to do one line for 2015, do you know that 1085 irregularities were found that year, and when we had about 500 million euros in contracted projects. You'll say and we'll all say that the perpetrators of irregularities have their own name and last name and that they should answer in front of the bodies. What we in the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to European funds, must be a problem, we have a problem with MPs who speak as you just said it was a perfect theft in most of the assigned and arranged projects. [[Intruder Radin: time thanks.]] This may stop the further allocation of the Republic of Croatia's resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99480	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99481	Let's put it on the scale, the things I'm talking about in the assembly and the things made by the Minister or the Director of SAFU in carrying out the task of implementing or overseeing funds from EU funds. Whose mistake has greater and more serious consequences? With all due respect, the error of the one whose actions came from the European Public Prosecutor's Office to knock on his door is a fact. As for 2015 and today, your colleague, Greek, answered that question. In 2015, neither two years at this time nor two years we were a member of the EU, operational programmes were adopted and approved. Today we are a member of the EU for almost 9 years, and there are no such programmes. At the same stage of the EU budget, we should be more successful, not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99482	Thank you very much, time. And Mr. Arsen Bauk, after which the gentleman will, just a little while, after which Mr. Grbin will run to the scene and Mrs. Bhauk will come. A little ben so you don't replicate yourself. Mr. Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99483	There's a lot of these absurd... Let's put it this way, colleagues from the HDZ in each replica point out that while we were in power, this system was disastrous, because they could and did what they did when they came to power, we appointed Jaksu Puliza deputy from Branko Grčić as special advisor to the prime minister, and Natasu Mikush Zigman as head of SAFU State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's quite logical, so someone who worked disastrously you put him up for punishment to do this to you right now, did I get it right? So there weren't 250,000 HDZ members who would do it better than the ones we set up, so you didn't set them up. Those of you who were in our government, at least they didn't embarrass you like those of you who set you up, and that's all I'd say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99484	If it was, if it was... Well, there was only one question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you're done with your piece, with your piece of the replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Hey, Ben, come here for a second, just a second. It's still two parties, so we have to disinfect this one from the other. Here you go. Here you go. Mr. Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bencic, we obviously have to ask the question as a lawyer because that's what we're being asked to do right now. My question to you is whether the proposal or what the investigative committee should examine, to what extent did Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic know about the criminal activities of his party colleagues, and what is his responsibility, at least according to what we learned in college, is a particular or at least a specific question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99486	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99487	So that's a certain question. There is no need to classify it as specific, but it is clear that HDZ representatives will have to claim that it is a further investigation which would be too wide for you, once it was too narrow for you, it is either too wide or too tight for you, or, or, or it belongs to you, it is not always good for you, and it does not suit you because it does not suit you. Your parliamentary investigation isn't answering for us, it's fucking with you. She doesn't answer to you for the simple reason she's public, which the prime minister has to answer to these questions, which citizens can follow in real time, which they would come to testify and speak there, which I will answer to, Mr. Bačić, and you are, and you choose among your own, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99488	No, no, no, no, no, please, please, please, please, please, please. No, listen, we'd better move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99489	Good and too tight and too wide we'll skip now. What I am interested in means the structural conditionality of these EU funds and the possibility of reaching convergence at all. So usually our domestic company is being accused as corrupt and they are often, but here we have a tender for large infrastructure railway projects on the Križevci-Koprivnica-state border, the business of implementation was obtained by the Turkish company Cengriz, which is also mentioned in the case of Pandora Papers and profit extraction through offshore companies, avoiding tax payments. On the part of Hrvatska Leskovac-Karlovac the job was obtained Strabag who was punished in Austria with 45m euros for joining the cartel and setting up a pile of furniture etc.. So looking at foreign companies and our companies, those sides are in a privileged position and generally means that we will increasingly come down to EU funds that do not contribute to our convergence in which to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99490	Thank you, thank you, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99491	So here's to be exact: I'm going to tell the construction sector that the construction sector has been in the last eight to ten years. systematically destroyed in Croatia. Here, too, I was already talking about the low-building hydroelectrics case, the huge company that was destroyed, and among other things, in ways that were favourable to other companies or, more importantly, those companies that had a certain advantage because of some international players. There was the first Strabag that had a strategy to become the main regional player and became the main regional player, and in Croatia it enabled them to rule HDZ, and their participation in the affairs that HDZ officials later paid for them we know, from tunnels, roads, further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99492	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99493	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as you know from the EU funds, more than 8 billion euros have been agreed so far from 2014 to 2020 and over 8 billion euros, respectively. When we look at that total over 7 and 200 were paid then and we look at that in the monitoring and control structure of ARPA as an agency from 2014 to 2020, it was now the last one in 6 months 2021 on a sample of about nine billion kunas found errors of only 0.065% or 112,500 kuna. So, when we look at the ratios that are seen, the error rate is far less than that tolerated by the European Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99494	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99495	Here you go, ma'am. Peric, I'll answer you like this, first to make things right. So far, 44% of allocation has been paid, 44% of allocation, according to the report among other state audits, but also the reports you have, official reports. A little less than that, a little less than that, the other day we've been listening to it here, now maybe it's a slightly bigger percentage because you've had another financial year. The other thing is how much expenses are approved, finally approved, and, well, I'll say and I'll underline one more thing. So, the EPO has launched a large, therefore, European Prosecutor's Office, a large number of cases related to European funds, an investigation, so it has launched investigations One of these ended up with you being arrested by the director of SAFU [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] So how can we statistics fight the fact that your director is SAFU... [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, ……]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99496	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a benci, ma'am. Bencice, don't, don't, don't. - Mrs. Crescent. Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99497	238th infringement of the Rules of Procedure, so Now we need to discuss the current data, and that is that so far it has been paid by 10 March 2022. 7.27 billion euros or 67.76 allocations, and whether a radio has an illegal name and a last name, it will answer for that. [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99498	You can't, no, ma'am. You can't answer that. Peric will get a warning because it was a replica, and now you can answer if you will a reminder, I think there is, I think there is a clear Rules of Procedure, I think I'm a little ashamed of being a little bit like that, but what can I do when I sit here and when I have to say it? - Mrs. Crescent. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99499	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you were talking about an essential relationship with European funds instead of a subsidiary. We are now in a situation where there is a certain fear that Croatian farmers will be left without 30m euros or around 230m kuna of 300m euros in what is actually the total European envelope. If this correction is real and costs come from the obvious Ministry of Finance, i.e. taxpayers will pay all of that unhappiness or irregular payment. A series of family-related individuals with influential families of local HDZ have come to support young farmers by actually taking the future to those young families for whom there has been insufficient funding. Do you think that the possible establishment of this investigative committee will prevent or deter potential future perpetrators from illegal actions and corrupt behaviours, or what will be the message of the ruling unless they support the establishment of the commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99500	Thank you. So the message is clear, if this commission is not supported, what HDZ says is that it does not want to know what malfeasances were and that it does not want parliamentary control so profuturo about spending funds from EU funds. Already in the opening part, I pointed out that it was actually the largest, in fact, most of the suspiciously spent funds in agriculture, so I talked to a large number of Croatian small OPGs, those who never got state land, those who have few hectares, but on these hectares produce and these highly competitive products that can't get the incentive and never get the incentive, which never get into that scheme, who simultaneously see their neighbours who collect incentives on the country, and they didn't produce anything or that I'm not talking about taking the country to other people, not just the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99501	Thank you, time. Now it's Mrs. Neelix. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99502	By threatening reports on the use of European funds that have reached the HS agenda at different times, one problem can be identified. Once too much rely on external assistance or consultants is cited, with a minimal development of internal capacities, and it is said that, for example, consultants immediately receive 60% of the amount at the start of the project if they have not had the cost, then there is no price of some of their activities, etc., and then later when we look at irregularities, let's say that in 3 projects in 2 projects the same consultant is engaged, etc., there is clearly a whole consulting business that parasitises or is assigned different projects that are related to the withdrawal of funds from the EU. As someone who was also part of a consulting firm that had just attracted EU funds, can you tell how all consultants can abuse the ignorance of how to attract EU funds from different companies and individuals who need their help?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99503	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99504	So first, it should be said that the policy of all these years was completely incomprehensible, and that is, the policy of the ministries that are regularly in competitions for so-called. technical assistance, therefore at the level of assistance at the level of the national authorities and bodies in charge of implementation, instead of the Croatian consulting sector strengthened the external, foreign consulting sector in such a way as to prescribe the conditions of competition for companies to be 10 to 15 years old. experience in the implementation of EU funds, which of course Croatian companies do not have, so much of the funds coming from the EU went back to the EU. Let's understand that we underline that first. Secondly, what is actually problematic is that the more complicated procedure has been to allow people who apply for example for rural development tenders to seek consulting services because the procedure has been complicated in a way that they cannot write it themselves, and should be done in a way that everyone can prepare it themselves and there is actually the biggest taking of money by consultants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99505	Mr. Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99506	As the law had to be minimum, the rules, the procedures, the rules of procedure, the rules of the minimum courtesy, and they were right colleagues from HDZ formally made nothing binding on that ministry representative to be present, but it was bound by morality and decency which clearly did not miss him in this situation and did not reveal hot water to us. We don't know what to expect from the ministers anymore. Some in the last few weeks have ended up directly in prison like Horvat. Some have been removed as Aladrovic. Some are publicly said to be great people who should not be subject to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, as Pupovac says about Milosevic. Some mention asylum to the media in Brussels as Minister Tramišak. Maybe he's already in Bruxella. Maybe she changed her mind and asked for asylum. It's some cream at the end, but I don't know what else we can expect tomorrow or in a week from someone else. It seems the bar has become too small, the crocodiles are getting more nervous and the fight over the remains has begun. The spoils that are still at their disposal. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99507	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99508	The fact is that this last case with the minister who is going public with the claim that she was threatened because she did not award the tender to one firm but granted the FINI before she communicated it with her government colleagues, with her Prime Minister, and also with the president of the party, shows that what we have been saying all along this government has failed, that the ministers do not have the basic confidence in their prime minister and that it is evident that what was somehow the slogan, which is within the HDZ, which is who when the funds will be allocated to the expansion of the clientleist network, are now being fought against each other in a way that I would quote the minister "blood to the knee" if not granted to those who are granted So far, rather than some new ones who are probably the same. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's connected to them. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99509	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Bencic, it is clear to you that we will reject this proposal for formal reasons because it does not comply with the law. That's the first thing. And content because we think that the system and the control of the collection, the implementation of EU funds is good. And if it's good, it doesn't matter what you think is even less important what we think, it's what the person who gives us the money and who follows the money, followed by the European Public Prosecutor. If you have been following these days, the European Public Prosecutor has come out with data on irregularities and open investigations and damages to the European budget committed by individual EU Member States. Among the 15 countries established in their area is the European Prosecutor's Office and Croatia. Of the 22 founded by Croatia, only 14, only 6 are better than Croatia, and 14 are worse The damage in Croatia is 30m euros, for example in Italy [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] a billion and 700 million euros. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Therefore, those who control it know best, and therefore we will not really support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99511	Mr. Bacic, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99512	Thank you. I mean, it's phenomenal how you manipulate data, so then you say Italy has more damage, so I think of course it does because it has so much more resources in proportion to it. But not to go into it, tell me of the 15 states in which the directors of the agencies or the bodies in charge of the implementation were arrested for malfeasance with the funds, at what time? Here, in how many states? I haven't heard of any, enlighten me perhaps in anyone yet, but I haven't heard of any. So, we're talking here, we're talking here not about having SAFU officers or other level 2 intermediate bodies not doing a good job, we're talking about them, that there's political pressure on them to sometimes close their eyes or to let something that shouldn't have been released. what the case of Petric showed. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99513	No more, no more replicas, Mrs. Bencic. And now I don't think there's a board, so there's no board, so there's no reporter, so then I open the debate. First by clubs, Ms. Marija Selak Rasdić, MOST, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99514	Let me get right to what's up to now. So the damage is not the only issue to be considered when we talk about the use of funds and the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. There is also a question of benefits because we may be in harm's way, so we are now among those who have had less corrections than before, but the question is who has received these jobs. So were all those who could and wanted to apply to these competitions and had the opportunity to participate equally in them. Corrections are only what has been discovered, and the whole system that precedes it has allowed someone to enter a privileged area of obtaining funds from EU funds where some of the criteria that exist and those that are not publicly stated, but people know well that there is no point in applying these jobs I will not get is a whole other issue in the Republic, perhaps even more important. This is a non-injurious question that some have reportedly done by being part of the malfeasance within the withdrawal of funds, so they have received funds, or they have had to repay funds, but the issue is beneficial. First of all, the question of benefits should be asked in Croatia. Which of these benefits came from what we currently find ourselves in social political circumstances. Well, we, Don Vito Corleone, would be proud of this. We're talking about a government where, on the one hand, we have Anna Mandac talking about one minister strangling her, and on the other hand, we have another minister talking about her being threatened. So is it a mob organization or is it the government of a state of order? That's not harmless at all. More and more of what comes to the surface, which raises serious doubts that people are under various pressures that they are unable to act autonomously and freely. Moreover, they also feel life - threatening when they act in a certain way in the conduct of their public work. And that's what we're talking about today, and when we talk about withdrawing funds and using eu funds and potential control. And we can't avoid that question today because the only thing we've learned from this case is that either the prime minister is at the head of a corrupt octopus, so there's no point in talking to him about the threats his minister receives or this same octopus and it's run by whoever's in charge? Neither should be acceptable for Croatia. But the deeper problem that needs to burden us all is why this debate does not reach Croatian citizens. We have a government ahead of us where there is a minister "indicted" for strangulation, a minister is talking about threats, a minister is under investigation, the deputy prime minister said he will soon be still not to mention it, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia remain apathically in place. Well, in the end, this debate is in this initial tone, however, a dominant downturn between HDZ and SDP over who is more guilty of non-use or malversion within the use of EU funds, and then we wonder what citizens are apathetic. I'm afraid that right now in Croatia we only have two groups of people, one that has learned to swim in such social political circumstances and that has entered into different structures and modes of operation in the mafia way as HDZ has shown, and somehow it has attached itself to all these means and heads that have been attached to the selected patterns, and there is no will to change anything because it has become part of all these processes. And the second is Croatia, which has completely given up everything, which lives its life as long as it can autonomously or has left and does not want to engage in political processes at all. And that's why we're staying on the ground today, and that's the question honestly with which I'm going to go home today after this debate, and that's as much as this action of ours, but all of the media calling makes sense at all? What we and each of us have done, which is insufficient or we need to do better to prove what is obvious and what should be obvious to everyone, but things aren't moving from place to place, which is that the government where the government is threatened with the government where the ministers leave from day to day, in the government where the pressure and strangulation is mentioned doesn't make sense anymore to talk about its remainder. With such irrefutable facts, citizens are not on their feet, we all need to be concerned together. But it's not because you're doing a good job, it's because there's only that part of the citizens who have completely given up because of you or that part of the citizens who have agreed with you. It is up to us to try to make more and more of those who will return, not from you, and it may be harder to change, but to activate those who have so far refused to participate in any processes concerning political decision-making in the Republic of Croatia and that is our fundamental task. To go back to the scale of this debate. There are a lot of questions we have never answered, and they concern the EU and the various projects related to it. Is the Operational Programme Transport 2007-2013 ever closed? If he didn't, why didn't he? How much have we generally lost due to the failure of the project to obtain corrections? Is there anyone responsible for this loss? We had an estimate of 50 million kuna. How many proceedings has the DORH initiated on the basis of irregularities arising from public procurement procedures in which the contracting authorities lost millions of kunas of taxpayers? For example, the Dubrovnik Airport Project and other similar projects. Telling the corrections in the projects means they happen when there are irregularities and irregularities, what are irregularities? It's one euphemism for illegality in conduct. So it's only when we have some illegality in our conduct that illegality is the basis for irregularity, and when we have an irregularity then the user gets a correction and it needs to be cleared up once and for all. Because when we say irregularity and correction, it turns out that someone didn't do their homework the way it did, and that's not true. It is an illegal act, and that should be made clear. When we talk about the adoption of operational programmes for 2021-2027. where the Croatian public can see them, where are they available? I hear from the minister that they were sent to Brussels, we hear that the comments are not good at them, but what worries us is that we had no public insight, we don't even know who we are representatives in which direction the money will be invested in a new period. EU funds are an extremely important instrument for investment and public and private because 80% of public investment is funded by eu funds. It is extremely important that development documents are not sent to Brussels without any debate because then various lobbyists can have influence on them. The minister also said in her statement that she had transferred e-funds to the safe hands of the state. Safe hands of the state in the Republic of Croatia? What does that mean? Is that why it points to irregularities because it says that there are key conditions that must be satisfied when managing eu funds, and one of them is the insurance of the audit trail. Does that mean that this trail is in the e-fund system? Is that system secure? 2022. is the year in which we have this debate, and we do not have operational programmes for the period from 2021-2027 and we read about it being sent to Brussels and it will be mid-2020. We are not familiar with content and what is indicative and perhaps the worst of all is that the minister presents to the public certain things that can be suspected of being compromised by the audit trail in the EU funds and that the prime minister is not then referred to a system managed by billions of kuna. When we talk about whether well and well enough to monitor how funds from European funds are spent, the answer is certainly negative because several truths are doing the job, and each of them is partly not responsible for the fact that the truth after it must be corrected by its insufficient supervision and therefore we need this commission and we will support every initiative on this trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99515	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic from the SDP, in front of the SDP. ... No, it's in front now. Here you go. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99516	Thank you, Madam Vice President, I'm very pleased when you hold the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99517	... Because we're from Pula. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99518	From Pula, and in the heart always Istria. Why did we, as an opposition, even launch this investigative commission? First, it is clear as a day that there are serious problems with the management of EU funds, as OLAF also warned. However, OLAF has long warned, unfortunately not in charge of prosecution and can only forward it to the competent institutions and warn them and provide them with documentation relating to illegal conduct. What OLAF stated in its annual report for 2020 was that there are problems and manipulations of public procurement in the use of European funds, for example in the case of the construction of the winery, and even recommended to the European Commission that the EUR 1.3 million be returned and the DORH informed everything. However, there are always problems, OLAF notifications, not in charge of prosecution, and then you have the DORH and USKOK that do not move objects. We've seen this happen with both the software affair and the case of former Minister Gabriela Žalac. Fortunately, in the meantime, the European Public Prosecutor's Office has opened up, which has launched the entire investigation process we can freely say, our Croatian institutions have closed their eyes. But to remind ourselves of everything and in fact why it is very important and I expect the ruling to support this investigative committee, you have seen for yourselves that the commission should also be composed of the ranks of opposition MPs and of the ranks of the ruling majority, or you as ruling MPs, so I believe that you are not afraid of anything, and that you will support the same. But let us remind ourselves a little of all the affairs that have arisen in the system of using the implementation and control of EU funds. An affair No. One, software. To all of us, in close memory, the arrest of Minister Žalac, her associates, former director of SAFU, Mr Petrica, and the fact that they actually paid $1.9 million for the job and how they gave the company with one employee. We have also seen that the money from the bank accounts of those entrepreneurs evaporated the next day through the payment for state profits after paying the tax. That's case no. 1. Case No. 2 about which I spoke through the replica and I think it is very important to highlight precisely because of the situation in which the petrin entrepreneurs are located is the cancellation of the competition from a few days ago where we can actually say that Minister Tramišak continues along the well-studden trails of his former Minister Gabriela Žalac, a recent member of the HDZ presidency. Minister Tramišak cancelled a 16 million kuna competition after 5 months. It has received 124 applications, of which 16 oil entrepreneurs received funding, but there is no end to bizarreness. The bizarre thing is that the first time the media asked her why she canceled the competition, she said she simply felt that entrepreneurs in Petrinja would not have enough time to use all these funds. It was an official explanation that was on the ministry's website and provided by the minister to the media, however, the media do not continue to write to the ministry. The ministry is coming to explain the second, the story is completely changing, Minister Tramišak says there is a mistake in their administration for assisted areas to see this coincidence managed by Mrs. Katica Miskovic, a suspect in the Horvat affair, was giving non-intentional funds to entrepreneurs, says Minister Tramišak, is her mistake and the error of that administration that they re-scheduled the competition by model's fastest finger and when the contest was announced within two minutes the funds were being made to say so already allocated and she decided after 5 months to realize that she was experiencing enlightenment and accused of all of her administration. This is the harsh reality of today in the Croatian system of EU funds management, the minister has no idea what is happening to her, does not report threats she receives to her head of government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and what is very interesting about these threats, as far as the new affair is concerned, we can tell Omega software where the minister says that she could not watch what was happening and all the irregularities and that the simple business assigned to FINA. It's also very interesting. If you take a closer look at the whole situation, you can see that Minister Tramišak gave FINA a direct contract a job that used to run Omega software, which is actually the management of foreign and e-funding systems. What's also very interesting is that in the FINA administration, her college colleague is sitting, but there's no end to it because it's never the end of HDZ. Interestingly, then FINA assigned this job to the company GAUS with which Mr. Anusic Mayor Anusic and Minister Tramišak did business even then in the municipality of Antunovac, so we are really looking here one might say political thriller. I invite you not to fear the truth, to react in time, to wash away from all this, but it's not the end either. I really must continue to mention some more of the affairs such as the celebration of the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem for which Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is still 2016. presented it, beware, as a program to prevent emigration from that part of the country. He thought of 5 less developed Slavonian counties for which 18 billion kunas from Europe were intended, but 45,000 people, the whole of Požega and Virovitica, were still moved from Slavonia at the time, but of course it did not hesitate the whole project of Slavonia. Today it has already been said here, and I will only repeat that for the Slavonia project, the only thing that mattered was that you were in HDZ, and the only thing that mattered was that you might have a vineyard, a farm, a winery where you would all get an average of about 100,000 kuna, and if you are an influential HDZ, then you would get 7 million kuna as it was with the influential HDZ and then the parliamentary representative Franjo Lucic, who received that money for the reconstruction of the tourist facility. But it's not even the end, it's got money for the head of the entrepreneurship center. So we had the situation of the director of the entrepreneurship center at Mrs. Pleternica. Saric, who received 100 thousand kunas and they all have two common features, are all in HDZ and all have vineyards, farms, wineries, all the same, recipe the same, pattern of behavior, but you know what the biggest problem is, your problem is people who work in all these agencies, ministries. In SAFU, the average salary of VSS employees who run multimillion-dollar demanding infrastructure projects, say the water agglomerations project is also run by people with a salary of 6-6.5 thousand kuna net wages, and that they think that these people will objectively, diligently, knowingly do their job when they see that they have to bang to say for ordinary users of grants, literally pounding financial corrections for the purchase of clumper paper, and then their EU chiefs serve as their own ATM, and it is clear why we are starting all this. We want to see whether there is political pressure on independent institutions regarding the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, whether there are specific pressures on SAFU officers and other control and intermediary bodies throughout the system, and I am really interested in whether there is pressure on people working at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, they should be completely independent, and indeed we saw on a daily basis that their practice is at least odd. And we saw in the affair software when, in the opinion of a number of public procurement experts refused to appeal even though the profession was fully established and, of course, in some other situations, such complaints were respected. However, we want to know to what extent and the Prime Minister is responsible for what is happening, are the existing rules and procedures of funds applied to all users or are there privileged, which measures need to be introduced to introduce stronger independent supervision and what are actually obstacles to selecting independent and professional staff at the leading responsible functions in the institutions responsible for the implementation of EU funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99519	Thank you very much. We stopped at obstacles. - Mrs. Crescent. Voter first replica, excuse me, stay here if you want to respond to, to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99520	No, no, I have...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99521	Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99522	Yeah, I've got an injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99523	No, no, there are two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, no, no, no, you have to leave, you have to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99525	Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99527	...from Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99528	Yes, yes, Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99529	Oh, yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99530	So I believe that colleague Radolovic hurt an article. In 238 and in some way, we were offended by parliamentary representatives who are a little more monitored by the Slavonia Project saying that the EU funds were allocated to the OPGs, vineyards, farms, land, etc., but this is not true because we have many cases where the mayor of HDZ, his friend is an entrepreneur of the HDZ, so the mayor sits in the municipal company's assembly, so he assigns jobs to that friend to the HDZ contractor mostly for sewers. And water purification, and by the way... [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] They were farms, O.P.G.'s and all that together. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99531	- Mrs. Crescent. Voter, time, at least, at least you stick to the time please, you have a warning of course because it was a replica. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99532	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99533	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99534	But I'm Miss... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99535	And I'm sorry, Shashin, you're right, you're right, first, first, and what do you want me to think?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99536	Okay, okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99537	And you'll both come on, to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99538	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. 238, because the lady really insulted all the honest and hardworking and honest people in Slavonia who are struggling and struggling to survive there and right through the Slavonia Project have finally seen some light at the end of the tunnel, and now we can conclude from this presentation that everyone who has gone through the projects there and received the means that they have received it unfairly, that they did not deserve it, especially if they are members of the HDZ. So do you know how much There are hundreds of thousands of HDZ members in Slavonia, and if 2% of them get them, they're unfair? [[I gave it to you, thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99539	I gave you a few seconds more, thank you, thank you, I gave you a few seconds more I interrupted you, but I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. Mr. Shimičević's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99540	Thank you, Vice President HS. A colleague of the Voice has been injured by an article. 238., insults and disrespects both colleague Radolović and all of us here in the assembly because the colleague presented her opinion, and no injury to the Rules of Procedure can be raised for the opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99541	He's a very gentleman. It's very gentlemanly of you to defend Mrs. McNally. Radolović, but I'm giving you a warning regardless of the Intruder is not understood./... I have to give it because it was a replica. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99542	Your Honor, Vice President. Art. 238, so surely for a colleague, the Voice must have hurt an honest and honest person one good thing that's trying to help people and do it. I wish you'd mentioned your boss here that he insulted in his residence, a residence where he tried to steal in small pieces. Imagine giving him some serious organization. Whose science it would be to give him something like that. [[/Intruder Radin: But what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99543	Okay, okay, okay, okay, thank you very much. Mr. Duer, you have a warning, I mean no matter what, but I didn't realize who you were referring to, it didn't matter it was a replica. [[Intruder Deur: How much would you then.]] Mr. coat of arms is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This time yours says a reminder to fellow Shimičević. So in his case it wasn't a replica, it was simply an interpretation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When we give notice in the event of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it should be guided by whether the representative used it to say something beyond what the rules of the Rules of Procedure provided for the institute. My colleague didn't do it, and there's no room for warning. I agree and sometimes I abuse it myself, and every time I'm punished, it's justified, but in this case it's not. Here we can agree on whether or not the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been or has not, but a colleague has not come out of the context of what needs to be done when he is speaking in which direction the Rules of Procedure went, and that is all I want to show you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99545	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, and you have a warning for that, you know that. Mrs. Voter's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99546	My colleague, Duer, was injured by an officer. In 238, insulting me in a way that I have insulted the honorable Slavons who cultivate the earth and use incentives for what their purpose is. No, I wasn't thinking about them, I was thinking about bandits who take away people who need to win incentives just because they're godfathers, donors, relatives and party colleagues, both in the business and uncles. They get incentives, and they don't need to get ahead of schedule. [[Intruder Radin: It was a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99547	It was a replica and it was a reminder. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99548	Fellow Members of the 238th Honored Vice President, my colleague, Glasovac, I really don't believe in personality or political orientation, but I wish you had gone a little deeper into your party and identified yourself with the petty principles that you are doing today in the opposition, not going back five, six years. Today, what your boss is taking you into his part imagine he's got a serious organization. So there's so many of you around me with Sundays more at lunch in your family than there are at the SDP club today. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99549	It was a replica again, a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a warning. And now finally Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. She's gone, then she loses her right. No, we don't see her. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, who is here is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am going to continue where the last debate stopped, on these honest, honorable Slavs who got great incentives. So we want to talk about it? Are we gonna de-polomeze that? And I think it's very indicative why you're even looking for such an investigative commission, so the funds went to build a hotel on the coast, let's say from those same honorable Slavs who work hard, doing hotels around Krk if I'm not mistaken, these are the honorable Slavons who work very hard, or if we're going to list uncles, relatives, friends, neighbors, acquaintances, passersby the houses of the major HDZs in Slavonia. Yes, then we can talk about these honorable people who, like so hard to earn bread, not those who really work there, who fight for their existence and who want to stay in that country. And it's actually very indicative that this is, say, a colleague of Shaschlin's comment that should certainly know what the situation is like in Slavonia and Baranja. But let's get back to the scale of things. What they taught me and what life teaches me is that when you don't have something to hide, when you're not afraid of something, and then you wouldn't show something, prove it to the Croatian public, to the interested public, to the media, to whoever you want? What can this investigative committee find to be wrong or contrary to the law if all is said by a colleague and a colleague on the right of the assembly? If everything by PS is what would be said or by the rules of service, by law, whatever you want, and then what are we afraid of? Are you afraid that the opposition will be disgraced for asking for such a thing? Well, we're looking for that for a good reason, and here's why you're listed by colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me, and those who will speak after me believe the same thing. If that's not the reason for you to try and get off yourself, then I don't see why setting up an investigative committee where you would still have a majority, would be problematic by one item. If there was indeed an abuse, if there were violations of the law, irregularities as it is said in the new Croatian, then I would also be against the establishment of this investigative commission because it could prove that perhaps some colleagues and colleagues from the government are not quite as wonderful and beautiful as they show themselves at firsthand. Do I have to remind you from this pay phone how many ministers and ministers left the government of Andrej Plenkovic, either the first, or the second, because of suspicion of corruption or corruption? Now we just have some last ones in the series, and I'm sorry that I spoke and not only did I warn from this pay phone that it remained quite undetected at that time, and this is about very poor money from the EU via the Ministry of Agriculture. This will only be paid for by colleagues and colleagues, first, first tranche, let's say, so much so that the European Commission has already imposed a fine of 30m euros, i.e. 30m euros. 10% of direct incentives will be denied to our farmers. Why? Even for this minister and for that minister before. Because with this pay phone together with some other colleagues and colleagues, I warned that the money was not available as first non-transparent, and then not for purpose, because it was the only money we could get out of the EU in advance, then not there and we didn't refer it where it was supposed to be. And what's the score? Here's the result of this punishment, the result is that OLAF is doing, let's say it's so Colloquial on the resolutes of our ministers and ministers, and it's the result of how many ministers have actually left the Croatian government. And yes, I was just talking about the Slavonia Project after this pay phone and let me have a few more words on that. Your colleagues and colleagues have been revitalised by this project, which has been so persistently pushing our government since 2016, and has continued to play for the public since 2016. The advice for Slavonia and Baranja where we visit this unfortunate Slavonia and troubled Baranja, where we visit these desolate cities, where we visit those underdeveloped, which is a euphemism in some way, some undeveloped parts of Croatia and we boast that we have shot billions of euros in this, we will say unfortunate Slavonia, who is otherwise experiencing a real Renaissance precisely because of this. And the Renaissance does not experience Slavonia colleagues and colleagues, the Renaissance is experiencing HDZ membership, thank God a number of memberships in Slavonia and Baranja because there is no HDZ male alive and has a membership card that has no money from it if he is involved. Now I'm a bit of a cartoon, but it really turns out because when you read a little research journalist, when you read to whom all the funds are allocated, when you look at what companies are, which are individuals, etc., then it turns out that really, really nobody who has any membership cards has any money. Very little have I seen really those valuable, self-sacrifice Slavs and Baranjas who want to build their future in that part of Croatia. And then we'll be surprised as a turkey shit, which is said in the people when people from Slavonia and Baranja and not only from Slavonia and Baranja, but from all over Croatia leave. Doctors leave with high wages, those who have contracts permanently leave. And you know why they're leaving? Well, they're leaving because they're in pain with things like this. They're in pain with things like this. They're in pain that this sort of thing can happen in a supposed state. It pains them that the best friends, neighbors, acquaintances, passersby, all have an advantage over those who really want something to do, leave it there. Because as you explain differently the fact that billions, pardons not billions, millions of kunas get a company that's just been founded that's never done agriculture before, then gets once some of the gusts that for agriculture, for organic production, for I don't know what. Well, because you really think colleagues and colleagues will allow this kind of public European money, not European money, our money, our Croatian money, and then European money. Well, of course not. Of course not, and I'm afraid the philosophy of some is, ah while I'm holding the water, so when I go, it doesn't matter, but all my colleagues and colleagues are coming to collect. Perhaps you have proof and the fact that the former Minister of Agriculture is also investigating this same OLAF and DORH and USKOK and whoever you want because it is truly defeating that you were the Minister of Agriculture, before that you were mayor, before that you were a lawyer or you were a lawyer in the county administration. And then I guess you suddenly discovered your propensity for viticulture and then you had a huge amount of money for vineyards assigned to you by the person you named before you left. I don't speak or wish to insinuate that it was something bad, but do you realize how many hips we open in this way? It's really a lot. If that former agriculture minister or anything had not decided to deal with something that had nothing to do with the resort he was running, with someone, something he used to deal with, I think it would have been a lot less, a lot less questionnaire would have created above his head. This is how it's created too much. This way, colleagues and colleagues do not only harm Croatian citizens, although it is an absolute priority and they are the ones that I want to protect, work and harm Croatia as such because for every euro that has gone to the wrong address, for every euro that has been embezzled or wrong, we will pay for the penalty. When I say to pay, I think of these same citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those valuable Slavons and Baranja or Dalmatians or Zagorca or whoever, we will all pay them because someone, according to public money, European money, treated Croatian money simply as being very irresponsible. And that's the fact that we have to face. Therefore, final colleagues and colleagues, I invite you, especially from the ruling to support the establishment of this committee because if you have nothing to hide, then we have no commission to discover, and if you have what to hide, then it is clear why you are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99551	Thank you. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac in front of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99552	Dear, the Annual Report of the European Court of Auditors refers primarily to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year. The report shall be referenced, therefore, to analyse and make its conclusions and recommendations on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. The European Court of Auditors' report is being developed to protect the financial interests of all EU citizens, with a particular contribution to improving EU financial governance. The European Court of Auditors shall analyse 7 areas financed from the EU area. In addition to analysis and opinion, the Court concludes for each area and makes recommendations. The report is primarily not concerned with each country individually except in the section showing the exploitation of EU budget items of valid reserves in relation to gross national income and VAT. the number of open issues relating to traditional own resources by Member States and information on EU measures in the Member States. As regards Croatia, data on the use of ESI funds are presented in the report, so not only for agriculture and rural development funds for the period from 2014 to 2020, where Croatia is located in the last place. The worst of us is Italy. Croatia used only 45% of the funds by the end of 2020. The second information relates to the number of valid delays in relation to gross national income and VAT and the number of outstanding issues related to traditional own resources per Member State. In the analyzed area, Croatia has the largest number of reservations related to gross national income, so 16 delays, with only Greece being worse than us. They have 21 delays. The following area where Member States are individually listed is information on EU measures concerning rural development, market measures and fisheries. The audit covered 4 transactions in the case of Croatia and quantified one error. Although she had enough time, Croatia was unprepared and unprepared to join a full EU membership that reflected in the non-exploitation and slow withdrawal of the planned funds. There is no quantitative and qualitative preparation and education of human resources, but also slow and inadequate + institutional adjustment to emerging needs with the aim of making maximum use of financial opportunities. But whether the fact that the country has been imprisoned in a table and in a corruption affair has affected the implementation of plans for withdrawing funds from the EU budget. Of course it is. From day to day, the public has been contaminated with new information such as the relatively fresh one that OLAF visited the Payments Agency's premises and took a look at all the documents that enabled the former Minister of Agriculture to withdraw and spend millions of amounts on the basis of the regulations that he himself made. And the farmers? E farmers are faced with a complicated application procedure and unnecessary administrative requirements, excessive amendments to the regulations and the criteria for the allocation of funds, the absence or frequent changes to tendering plans, and very long procedures from the submission of applications to the award decisions. Unfortunately, farmers do not have sufficient support and needed assistance to meet the conditions for applying to competitions and to improve their economies. They are often left to the advisory services of individuals and companies who very little or nothing know about the measures available to farmers. The consultants mainly learned how to technically meet the conditions of competition, but they do not have the necessary knowledge relating to the subject matter and investment objectives that would lead to higher productivity and production, and thus the income of farmers. Croatia must work seriously for the next period to strengthen human and institutional potential to allow faster and better quality use of the financial allocations. The strategic plan must provide for more significant means of transfer of knowledge and information, and allow private advisory services with clearly set and defined criteria for participation in the process. The question is raised and what to do to improve the percentage of money withdrawn from the available European funds in the next period and what challenges to Croatia are related to this. We must primarily recapture what has been done so far in order to figure out what we did wrong. The new programme should certainly be agreed in cooperation with the producers themselves. The measures should monitor their needs and their production, not vice versa, and that is to artificially monitor the wishes of the Ministry and the Agriculture Payment Agency. The advisory service should be available to farmers. Information should be easily made available to farmers. An additional problem creates no reference prices. Farmers never know if they'll be able to recover all the funds they've invested. This increases the business risk. For example, Slovenia has a valid catalogue of eligible costs with maximum recognised amounts that facilitate farmers' financial plan. There is no such thing in Croatia. Further doubts about the transparency of European funds are also raised by a large number of procedures carried out by national institutions, but a particular interest arises from the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The question arises as to why it is more effective than domestic institutions such as the ARP, which is a control body and which, before the European Prosecutor, should have detected both suitability and corruption and react on time. From all the above, it is concluded that our ministry chooses to whom European funds will be made available, while a small agricultural producer whose survival is crucial but also the competitiveness with the European farmer cannot come to that money. In an analysis of the possible consequences of the framework for the implementation of agricultural and fisheries policy in the Republic of Croatia, including forestry, given the users of the rural development programme, I must identify some of the most important problems. The key problems related to the implementation of the CAP financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, and in particular the second pillar through the Rural Development Programme from 2014 to 2020, which is implemented until 2023 and whose commitments, the controls stop only in 2030, are based on the fact that it is set up contrary to EU legal legislation. Here I also think of regulations, conventions, international agreements to which the Republic of Croatia is bound, and then with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the laws of the superior level, so lex specialis. This method of application has led to full legal uncertainty, non-transparency and self-will, i.e. the manipulation of civil servants at the highest level, the tenants, the officials who carry it out. Such a system shall fall within the category of irregularities or fraud according to the competent regulation. Irregularity constitutes any breach of the provisions of the Community including memos, financing agreements, contracts and national law, among other things fraud is the misapplication of regulations or policies, and this is already being entered into the scope of the Penal Code already pending is already a whole series of applications or lawsuits against the Ministry of Agriculture or the paying agency. Some disputes have already been lost by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Republic of Croatia, and a large number are being prepared for damages, which are based on violations of the Constitution and law in the Republic of Croatia, but also on violations of fundamental principles and the EU legislative framework. I note here, therefore, that it is an extensive interpretation of the legal norm which is in the usual practice of European courts, i.e. that the legal norm is interpreted in a way with a purpose and objective which the legislator wanted to achieve by adopting a certain legal standard, and that is, above all, the exercise of one's right. How the Republic of Croatia is on the roof of useful eu funds is, for example, implementing the Rural Development Programme, based on Article. 74. EU Regulations 33/2013 itself are responsible for all irregularities, and so are implementation through laws and regulations which do not comply with EU law and national laws, which must be. The practice of European courts has already shown that in such cases the state is always losing its way. Based on this, all those whose projects during more IPARD programmes and now the Rural Development Programme are based on such regulatory and practice are denied reduced funds or broken contracts can file a complaint in the European Court of Justice and seek compensation from the Republic of Croatia and will receive a dispute. The Republic of Croatia will have to pay their damages from the budget, it must return them to the EU budget, so the damage is double. Then how do you solve these situations? We should primarily include all experts and stakeholders who can assist in this, so we need to coordinate all implementing regulations, laws, sublegislative acts, procedures for implementing, in particular, the Rural Development Programme with the EU and national regulations, and then a detailed assessment of the impact of existing employees in the implementation system, cost analysis and the benefits of implementation so far with the definition of key brakes of the so-called system. bottlenecks, detailed analysis of current irregularities, draw up guidelines for increasing efficiency and reducing the costs of operational implementation, as well as establishing the proposed commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99553	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic in front of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99554	Good afternoon, everyone. Why do European funds even serve? In various strategies, institutional frameworks, the common principle of solidarity, further ensuring convergence and cohesion, and so on, means overcoming inequality. But as we see in practice what is actually happening is best described by Brussels diplomats, it's called Europe two speeds, so there's no convergence, there's no cohesion. To achieve this, it would be necessary for the EU to be a fiscal community, to have a common collection of taxes and a common budget and to be financed from it by public policy. It won't happen that soon. We all know that the trade deficit with the EU is huge every year. For example, in 2018, it amounted to 60 billion kuna, only 15% of our exporting entrepreneurs, we follow the decline in industrial production, we monitor the total shut-down of the last industry. What does that mean, after all? It means that our workers do more simple jobs for less wages and in uncertain conditions and it will not change so easily. There are many reasons, but two are in charge. One is that the resources at our disposal are actually insufficient, although people when they hear billions of euros seem to be high funds. These are insufficient funds to even talk about development means 22 billion euros available to us in the current VFO and the European Recovery Programme '21-28. the amount of funds is not sufficient. In the previous period of 11 billion euros, we have to mention a few things that make this amount realistic or what it takes to compare to actually see how small that amount is. So 11 billion euros in just one year pre-crisis, pre-crisis in 2008, the ninth total of all investment in the private and public sectors was greater than that amount. To see how insufficient that is, we can specify the data and that in one year, the US has a budget four times the EU in seven years, so that's what we're talking about. Insufficient amount to develop. The second thing, eu funds are for a specific purpose, this purpose discriminates, meaning less developed such as Croatia, which means that we are actually destroying our production and destroying our industry, and the privileged foreign companies that I spoke of in the replica itself. But what was an example of saying that the stage of that destruction is, say, a shipbuilding that I don't have time to talk about here right now. I mentioned that domestic companies are being destroyed, and the parties are being privileged, so I'm going to give you only two examples. So the one I mentioned was the Turkish company Cengiz, which is also mentioned in the context of Pandora Papers and profit extraction through offshore companies and tax avoidance, which is the company connected to Erdogan, which is linked to the avoidance of taxes in Turkey, received the job of an infrastructure railway, railway project on the Križevci-Koprivnica-state border. The second example is Strabag fined in Austria with 45m euros for joining the cartel and setting up competitions between 2002 and 17th, domestic companies that mentioned Hydropower, the low-building sector is failing. Foreign companies are privileged because by the structure itself, the team means that competitions actually get easier jobs. What is dangerous is to raise European funds and problems with European funds on the issue of corruption. So it seems to us that both left and right are showing here in that assembly that it's just that we have to replace the corrupt, and everything is going to be okay. Bringing the problem to corruption is an extremely dangerous simplification. What is true is that a poor country like Croatia is corrupt, it is simply true and corruption especially means favouring poverty, but bringing everyone down to this very question is really dangerous. But we can really talk about corruption, so when we get to corruption there's a lot to say, but always with a note that it's not the only thing that bothers us. So in this particular situation right here, so this right-hand ball in this assembly, we had a chance to hear those two, those two examples. So one example is that this former Minister Žalac, another example is current Minister Tramišak and the affairs related to them mentioned here. So former and current regional development and EU funds. However, someone can also be made that there has now been some revision in HDZ itself of pro-corruption policies within the HDZ itself, if the Minister herself is calling for corruption or the threats addressed to it. But what the commentators said, and it's probably agreed, it's an intra-party struggle, it's probably also a fear of OLAF that's starting to explore, and in this environment it means that these kinds of affairs are occurring. But Minister Tramišak mentions Omega Software company, so I will spend a few minutes reminding the Omega Software company that the Workers' Front warned about in the pre-election campaign in 2019 when Miroslav Škoro ran for election president and the company was then in Škorina co-ownership. The most money the company made was with the state. So hers, we follow her revenues from the local level, means co-operation with Bandic where she made 24 million kuna in one year, only for maintenance and upgrade services, and among these tools was a system of writing, which, despite the fact that you handed over any papers in the city office, would receive a hand-written note. Here, so it was a very capable software company. But then they focused not only on digitising business entities which is good for working with the state but also on ice lighting, so they sold ice lighting to different cities, and Škoro would sing for free, but of course who could prove that singing had something to do with that business story and signing contracts with local communities. However, in 2018 out of 55.3 million kuna revenues at least 40 million earned by operating with the state and units of local self-government. He told Škoro that he had given God more such companies in our country and he told the elemental courtesy of telling the man to focus on himself at one point in his life to transfer to the community, said the journalists rightly were not sure what this was really about when he shifted focus to the community. Nor, this firm now mentioned by the minister and which she now accuses has entered, back under the M SAN Group umbrella, means the owner of Stipe Matic and it is another socialist project for capitalist firms, means capitalism only for the social working majority, but socialism for capitalist firms that fully operate with the state is whether they are protected. And it does not mean some specificity of Croatia, all capitalist firms are trying to create a monopoly. So here's to mention that this company M SAN itself, 7 years ago, received confirmation from Microsoft that it was good, included it in the finals of its election for the global partner of the company, and otherwise the company is the bearer of the Croatian quality and original Croatian. I think we can say that we agree that this company is something extremely original Croatian because it's from a lot of income, so they had 2019. 30 million revenues, mostly all revenue generated from the state budget, and these revenues increased to more than 100 million kuna. So when we're talking About these companies, we're really talking about capitalism for the working majority. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99555	Mr. Marko Pavić will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Please, just a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99556	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, the funds are always an interesting topic in the assembly, and I am glad to be able to say something about this point in front of the HDZ Club as it was visible from the original replicas themselves and the HDZ Club will reject this proposal if it is primarily not in accordance with the law. As well as his colleague, Habiban, said that the opposition had fallen into the trap by preparing this request for an investigative commission because on the one hand, they knew that it could not exist for those points for which the investigation was raised by law and on the other hand by the other. 4th clearly says it can't be too wide. Therefore, these topics are in no way in line with the Law on the Investigation Commission, but of course we condemn every corruption at individual level and we want to discuss all topics, and in particular the topics of the use of EU funds, their control, control, success and all that this government is proud of. Therefore, when we talk about the level of control itself, it should be recalled that within Croatia there are 4 levels of control, from the executive body of the second level, from the management body which are the ministries, the level of the body of assurances that the Ministry of Finance clears all things before being sent to Brussels and afterwards by the independent ARPA Agency that audits each competition, every major project and takes samples on smaller projects. In addition, we also have two levels in Brussels, an auditor in Brussels and the European Court of Auditors. All these levels and all those reports for both the 20th and the 21st and the ARPAs and the Court of Auditors and OLAF say there is no systemic corruption in Croatia. The error Brussels allows is 2%, so as soon as you move on to something that doesn't work in 2% of the sample, payment is interrupted. At this point in Croatia there is no suspension of payment, at this point we have 55 billion kuna more obtained from Brussels than paid, at this point we are one of the most successful Member States in the NPOO where we received a billion and a half euros, the last FDI that went recently charged all over 700 million euros. If there was anything structural that didn't work in the EU funds, Brussels wouldn't pay us off. When someone says yes, but look at the levels, Director Petric or former minister, let's see that it is also now on the accused bench and one former EU prime minister and some Ministers and Director Deutsche Bahna for a subway project in Stuttgart. Therefore, there is a control system, the European Commission has developed it, institutions, through the 10-year use of European funds and that anything structurally wrong would stop, and Croatia when we say that the European prosecutor, that he saved us, so Croatia that the HDZ wanted this majority could refuse that we are among the 22 members who have a European prosecutor. Also in European prosecutors' reports 15 countries are behind us. When we look at the ARPA's operational programme reports 2014-2020, we see that we have acquired a reasonable guarantee regarding the proper functioning of the system and the management of the control of the Operational Programmes of Competitiveness and Cohesion. It is the same for the European Social Fund. In total, we have 16 000 active EU projects so far. When colleagues from the opposition speak and read names, so we don't want to go down to that level so we can start reading other names if there are members of the SDP and we can! and all members of the opposition that are beneficiaries of European funds and it is good that we do not have there, that we do not look at membership and that we have an independent evaluation system. When we look at the success of the European funds, 10.7 billion euros was this envelope, the prime minister fought 25 billion euros, and it is interesting how he tries to downplay it, as Prime Minister Plenkovic's influence in Brussels is trying to reduce on the European stage, and it is precisely from Mr. Grbin who, when he goes on an official visit to Germany, doesn't even receive him from the German Chancellor who is in his family, and we have Chancellor Merkel several times coming to party visits and meetings. When we talk about what it means to have an influence in Brussels, which is modern sovereignty, as much as you're involved in European processes, as much as you know how to get out, it speaks enough when we look at the SDP government. So, in 2013, when Croatia entered and after 2014, negotiations on the financial envelope in the regulation stood for one remark which made it clear that the Member States that entered the EU before 2013, only Croatia entered 2013, with a GDP decline greater than a certain percentage getting an extra billion euros. No one from Croatia reacted to the fact that instead of 2013 we had written another year we could have had a billion euros more and that was the failure of Milanovic's government, we could have a billion euros more. At the same time as this envelope was closed, the European Council is a night negotiation, a few days have lasted, and I've been preparing the prime minister for the same night. Prime Minister Plenkovic is fighting for special articles for Croatia in which he writes. In 65, that the country that used only one envelope gets an additional 300m euros for an undeveloped area, an additional 200m euros for agriculture, that night, Prime Minister Plenkovic voted, so Milanovic loses a billion euros in Plenkovic's 25 billion euros and the election is being held for an additional 500m euros for Croatia alone. And so much for the Peja that the Chancellor of Germany doesn't accept when he's on an official visit, how jealous is it that the rest of them have no influence? Citizens recognize it and citizens see who can lead them in this crisis. Therefore, the total of Croatia is very successful in using eu funds, 55 billion kuna we are in plus, 20 billion kuna we have annual revenues in the budget. The government also knew how to change statistical regions, and that is exactly how we went to meet, especially those in Slavonia, so that they can get a higher percentage of subsidies. European funds are developing Croatia and I am sorry to hear, here is no colleague of RADOLović, I am sorry to hear that they are so casually IT sector of the company characterized in this way... way. Corruption has a name and a last name, if you don't think it's appropriate to report anything. I'm sorry to say for Gauss you're saying that HDZ is a company when you're employed there by a member of the current SDP presidency and on SDP sites you're saying it's a reputed company. Don't so, don't so casually characterise IT companies, characterize projects. We have 16,000 active projects, used by all citizens, companies, cities. Corruption has a name, the system as such is not compromised, we are not like Hungary, we are not like the Czech Republic. And this proposal will be refused if, as many of my club also said, it is not in accordance with the law, you have fallen into that trap that on the one hand you could not write and name an investigative commission for certain people who are accused, and on the other hand it is too broadly out of line. 4. The law on investigative committees. Accordingly, the HDZ club will reject such a proposal because it does not comply with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99557	You, too. Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first injury was sought by Mrs. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99558	Thank you. Representative Pavić injured an article. In 238, insulting our agents from We can actually tell a lie when he said he could name the defendants, so he mentioned us. There are no defendants among us and no one is under criminal investigation unlike you, so your suffering in the same basket can't be realistic. But also when it comes from a minister who's money The ministry spent on buying perfume then we both know what time it is. [[Time, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99559	The time, the reminder was a replica. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99560	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you injured the Rules of Procedure because you allowed the MP to speak about the HDZ party meeting where Angela Merkel was, however, he forgot to say that she was also Gabriela Kaljac at the meeting. Well, here's just that it has absolutely nothing to do with the subject, and you allow it. This is where he praises HDZ meetings, and now it's not a theme for his colleague Pavic, you've missed the whole football game.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99561	Thank you very much. The warning, it was a replica. And I don't know what you're forgetting, Mr. Bull, I don't think I can know what you're forgetting about Mr. Pavić's words as I don't know what you're forgetting. It's a warning. And now we're going to individual, not on behalf of the proposer. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99562	Thank you. We therefore have before us a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee for the effectiveness of the EU funds' system of functioning and to monitor possible irregularities in illegal actions and corruption. Due to our suspicion of impartiality, we have already had when we had the interpretation of government work related to the way of distribution and availability of funds under the project Slavonia, Branja and Srijem, and the proposal for today's decision we are discussing has actually proved to be a necessary next step because of any further suspicion of illegal behaviour. The Požeško-Slavon County is unfortunately devastationed and unfortunately with us would be worth what less is more. The less millions of incentives and European funds are poured into Požega-Slavon County, the less public funds in the pockets of HDZ members and those close to HDZ. Someone would say that these findings are exaggeration and politicization but the facts speak differently. A whole series of names, starting with Franja Lucic, former mayors of Aladrovic, Tomasevic, are related individuals who have achieved substantial grants in tenders under the same conditions. We now see that these methods by the grandmothers and uncles are the basic and first criteria that have been robbed by the residents of Požega-Slavon County and brought to the very top by the number of emigrated Požešina and the entire Poežeko-Slavon County. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is a project for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem 2016. presented to the public as a programme to prevent emigration, but on the contrary, the entire family has moved out, and since 2013. Croatia annually leaves several tens of thousands of people, mostly young people between the ages of 20 and 39. The most difficult situation is right in Slavonia where we have the collapse of small industries without opening new jobs. To whom the construction of new infrastructures has brought income and wealth except for those individuals and companies that are close to HDZ donors in campaigns. If all citizens could withdraw equal public funds, they would certainly not have led to this situation in which from 2011, from 2011 to 2020, the population of eastern Croatia was reduced almost by 106.00 citizens by natural movement and emigration. There are now fewer than 700,000 people living in Slavonia, which was expected only around 2030. A series of family-related individuals with the Lucic family have provided support for young farmers by taking a future for young families for which there was insufficient funding in certain envelopes. The company related to HDZ, Vinarija Galic, must return 10 million kuna from the wine envelope approved by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. OLAF found that there was malversion in the selection of subcontractors in the construction of the winery. The contractor was the company owned by Ina Galic, son of Josip Galic Presoflex construction, which represents a conflict of interest. This case is the first one to order the return of funds, and the case served as a school example of illegal operations in the 2020 report. Just at the rate of total revenues in 2020 in Požega-Slavon County Presoflex was second in success with 295.6 million kuna. And during 2017 this company also won the collective prize of the city of Požega. I must mention here the mayor of former Darko Puljak who even has two indictments, the County State Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod charged him with falsifying business documents and a subsidy fraud of nearly a million kuna, and the trial began in October 2021. In the County Court of Osijek, USKOK also filed charges against Puljasic, together with former Mayor Požega Mario Pilon, on suspicion of trading influence and fixing energy reconstruction tenders. Pozega is one of the few cases where local self-government was under sanctions as regards the application and withdrawal of funds from the EU, and precisely because of the subsidy fraud of building a hall with the Dobris Cesaric Elementary School. The string's right there, the string's right there. Examples... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99563	Here's the time, but you've got replicas, so you'll be able to connect if Yes, you do. [[Intruder: You can.]] Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99564	Dear colleagues, let us link ourselves to the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, from 18 October 2016 to 21 December 2018, according to government data in the project, a little more than 8.5 billion kuna or about 45.41% of planned money was allocated. And precisely because of the suspicion of the impartial and metric division of public European money, 25 opposition parliamentary deputies submitted their interpretation of government work in December 2020 on how to allocate and make available European funds under the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem Project. The form is always, a small Slavonian town in which the mayor of HDZ and local businessman of HDZ, in the city of a municipal company in whose assembly is the mayor of HDZ, and the entrepreneur of HDZ, from it, gets a multimillion-dollar job. It's usually water treatment or sewer construction. An entrepreneur gets another million if he has his own OPG, farm or vineyard and all of this on the basis of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem heavy 18 billion kuna. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99565	They'll answer, thank you very much, they'll be answered by an esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99566	So in the last 4 years, 16.5 billion kuna has been agreed through the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem Project and 88% of the total amount, respectively. More than 5,000 Slavs have achieved the grants that can be seen from the data. Some have withdrawn funds from 100,000 kuna to 100 million kuna from public and local companies to the OPGs, to the OPGs, natural persons, legal persons, but if we comb this list in detail, we see that all those who have achieved these funds are either close to the HDZ or are members of the family, and that is a pattern that repeats itself and really becomes a rule, not an exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99567	Dear Representative Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99568	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I hope you'll be fair in your answer now. Let's get this straight first. Rural development measures 187,000 of these applications were granted over 161,000. Among them are HDZs and SDPs, I think even the chairman of the SDP City Committee of Pleplernica is in them. You were in my town a lot of times 10 years ago and 2015 and you were the other day again. Do you know who worked, I'm HDZ's proud HDZ mayor, do you know who was doing the 741 project in the town of Pakrac, rebuilding the city square? Felix Regulatory. Do you know who's working on a project of agglomeration for Pacrac and Lipik worth more than 100 million kunas? GGD, Slovenian company. So don't generalize and put our county in a bad context because it's working so when you're talking that we're all in the same skin that isn't right for my colleagues. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99569	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99570	What I said, that really the fact and what's available about the public speak differently. So if we have the former mayor of each other Požeko-Slavon County, then Mayor Aladrovic is former, Mayor Tomaševic, and if we have former parliamentary representative Franjo Lucic and means members of his family, one son, another son, brother-in-law, then they have made millions of funds. At the same time, these multimillion funds or those lower than 100,000 to 300,000 kunas could not have been achieved by those families who needed them, who may have meant staying in our Pozjetina. Our Požetina is among the first to move young families, and this certainly will not contribute to the family’s return. We have a situation in which the grant means the funds in the amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99571	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you abuse an HS speaker, you call people who are members of the HDZ, some of them are not based on data that has not been verified. If you have any knowledge that any of these people have committed or is a criminal offence system, prepare such a single criminal application, and we will gladly subscribe it from the HDZ Club to OLAF, for any, and not in this way mention people who, even those with HDZ, have nothing to do with it and bring it into the context of friendship with HDZ, and those people you mentioned, whose name I will not mention, have received the funds of European funds at the time when Mostov Minister was Minister of Agriculture. I ask you to be so correct as to justify such slanders and lunches.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99573	Thank you. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic. Thank you, thank you, distinguished representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99574	What certainly stands for the list that is verifiable, lists of people who have received certain incentives It's not from the media, it's from the network, it's from the web page. [[Intruder: From the media]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99575	Please, no, not from the scene. [[Clip intrusion: Could be a reminder]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99576	Web pages available...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99577	You won't be running the session, but I'm running the session, so you'll get a warning if I hear you from the bench next time. I've warned my colleague Bačić that he can't speak from the bench, and please, you can't speak from the bench either, do you understand? Thank you very much. [[Clip intrusion: Yes]] There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99578	So all I've said is verifiable on the web pages about where I can see who's got all the incentives. Normally, if the pattern is repeated that everyone is connected to the Lucic family, Aladrovic and everyone else that, that's something I'm not only pointing to, the media does not indicate, the entire public and dissatisfied people who are residents of these small towns and municipalities and Požetina. So we know who gets it, internally we have verifiable data, and what is, not only is verifiable on the web pages, are also running proceedings against certain companies. For example, this company, i.e. related to Galic winery which is a fact, it is a fact which is so. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99579	Thank you very much. We have several injuries, colleague Vlasic Iljkić, thank you, you have exceeded time, slowly. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99580	For the sake of good conduct of your session, I'm giving up my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99581	Okay. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99582	Thank you very much. Art. 238, my colleague, I don't know what makes you so bad, not to say the wrongly calling people who had the right to get something they got, based on information from the media, you have no idea what you're talking about and you call them by name and last name, and they can't answer you and you resist it. Who makes you go to the club to do that? Well, that's not appropriate for you. Whose interest are you doing this for? Well, I think it's terrible what you're doing and there's no shame in showing, he says, so these are people that I can't communicate with at all, but I can't even get back, and we have to defend it now because there's just no one, a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99583	Well, fellow Boric, it is, it is, it is a replica regardless of its contents, therefore I must give you a warning. Honorable representative Sanja Radolovic has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99584	Thank you. Art. In 238, MP Boris insults and disrespects parliamentary deputies, including his colleague. She speaks as well as her colleague Bačić found it in the media while we all know it and we all removed Excel tables on the pages of the official Ministry of Agriculture through the rural development programme, so don't deceive the public, don't accuse the media, it's official data, only if they haven't been falsified in your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99585	My colleague Radolović, colleague Radolovic, and that was a replica, of course, so you get a warning. Please, please be quiet. The Honorable representative of the Jeklkovac is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because here in a really embarrassing way people are called by name and last name that they have done something that is against the law. If you think that's the case, and you claim that you're serious, then you know what to do, file criminal charges, don't call people names and names like this. If someone got the support he probably had a condition for that, which is whether he was a member of a party and which party was probably no reason not to get support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99587	Thank you, thank you very much. It was the same replica, you get this warning. Okay, I see that some will leave this hall very soon because they will receive a third warning by taking away the words until the end of the debate. Here are the esteemed MPs Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99588	I've got to say injury. 238 because it's often going to be that I'm personally going to someone, that it's data that isn't, that people can't defend themselves, that people aren't here, I think it's data that's available to the public, that we all know about, and especially I'm in Požega and I know everything that's going on. I don't need the media to know what's going on in Požega. I'm a parliamentary representative, so I'm in charge of knowing what's going on and pointing to all these irregularities. ... And it happens, there are irregularities... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] People got the funds before some they couldn't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99589	Thank you, thank you very much, colleague Vlasic Iljkić, thank you very much, and that is a replica to that, please let us all get serious together now. You have the possibility of more than individual debates to replicas and too much, closing words and all together, anything you can say within the limits of course what is provided for by the Rules of Procedure, but please do not abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure anymore. I'm asking you nicely because I'm going to give everyone this warning, some already have two warnings, with the third one going to have to leave us unfortunately, or they won't be able to speak until the end of this point. My colleague Deur, do you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99590	Thank you, Vice President. In 238, a respected colleague really hurt with her move of serious people, 238 who are not there, acting as if she were in a pre-election campaign without any means at all, coming from the county insulting people who are either acting or perhaps acting in power. You guys should take a look at what you're doing from one serious side of you. A small group that doesn't know what they want or where they're going. [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99591	It was also a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a second warning, too. Now you've already got two more warnings, and I'm just paying attention to you not being surprised when I take away your word for the rest of the debate on this subject and saying that I don't know who's silenced you. More people in this hall already have two warnings, the third means taking away words until the end of the debate on this topic. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99592	Finally. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, following the decisions of some previous bad decisions, the project Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja was then set aside by Zagreb and some rich counties and then, of course, it had to be established Council for Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja so that Slavonia could at least in some foreseeable time make that progress that other regions in the Republic of Croatia have. Since the establishment of the project by the end of September, 10.3 billion kuna has been paid in Slavonia, a second development agreement involving 38 new development strategic projects worth 10 billion kuna has been concluded. If the project Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja is so bad, why is the initiative of your mayor required to establish a development agreement north? Do you really think that the project Slavonia, Srijem, Baranja is so bad and that you think that the HDZs are the only ones through that project get the money? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99593	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99594	... I'm sure that's the way it is. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Everything I said stands and is publicized, and what you said about regions and divisions as it was before, I think we've already discussed it several times. Then it was so now it's different circumstances, so we have a different opportunity. And I don't know what you're all afraid of right now about the fact that this investigative commission is really being set up and that there are controversial cases of something that is controversial to determine, to resolve, to prevent future potential perpetrators of corrupt behavior and illegal actions and everyone satisfied. Here I don't know what the problem is and to see both the members of both and the other and the third, and I don't know which sides independently of the colors is just the thing that's available now and it's certainly what they are. The members of our party had an advantage in that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99595	The next replica, Your Honor, thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99596	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, it's quite worrying that you don't see the problem in what you've said about this pay phone, and I want to believe that it wasn't intentional, but I have to remind you that you've committed a crime of slander and insult and disgrace, whatever you want. And it's kind of cowardly to hide behind parliamentary immunity. These people you called here against them aren't being led as far as I know how familiar I am as you from the media, which is no proof, no procedure is being conducted. However, in this series of names that you have listed, for example, Mr Grgic against whom, for the first time by the European Public Prosecutor and the former SDP, has carried out the rightful solution to the investigation. So why did you not mention him, for example, but follow some of the signs of the newspapers? However, what my colleague Boric said, I would like to talk about the essence, so say something here I will ask you a question that you yourself have asked in your proposal. What measures should be put in place to introduce stronger independent control of the availability of EU funds? I don't mean the ARPA, I don't mean the European Commission's auditors. I do not mean the European Court of Auditors, what would you do? ... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99597	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99598	I must again specify that the data I have provided are not media inscriptions but, for example, in the case of Puljašić and the County State Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod, it is charged with counterfeiting... documents and subsidisation fraud related to the construction of the hall next to the primary school near OŠ Dobris Cesaric. Another one also has a criminal application for suspicion of trade in influence and the setting up of competitions for energy recovery. So these are facts, they're not media inscriptions, they're facts, they're running procedures. You've got a procedure against the winery that's been determined to pay back 10 million kunas, so it's not media inscriptions, it's not slander, it's simply such a fact. And this all we do is we actually do and we make this decision to increase the transparency and trust of people in eu funds and in a way, we really need it as a society that's been happening to us lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99599	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99600	Thank you. Here is a colleague we are discussing a lot today and about the former director, now the former director of SAFU, but it seems that the method of the election of the new one is no better or follows the old tried-out logic of HDZ, so I will not now appoint him as a member of the HDZ, so he announced to me on Facebook, of course, that he had to share with his friends, that he had received notice that the official candidate for the SAFU director, so that the official candidacy is probably happening in some party rooms and meetings and is being resolved a month before the competition was actually called.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99601	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99602	So here's all you said, so the announcement that the official candidate is without even being open is actually an indication to us that it's all one and the same way of working, and there's no transparency in that, in that there's nothing to help people with the acquisition and the grants and actually the introduction of order in that they get those who are dealing with it, and not who are marginally producing any kind of production, that is, that is, that is, it's not even what we've been dealing with in the case of the allocation of funds to certain companies that don't even deal with agricultural production but they've got, meaning funds from that programme and for that purpose. So this is just one step that can help us all make the system more transparent and make the grant system cleaner and we don't see why it wouldn't be that way, why not support the establishment of that commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99603	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99604	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlasic Iljkic, do you not have the impression that all of this is actually one trained defence and what I hear from the ruling party today is that it insists that you should not mention any name, because all of these are insinuations from the media and in fact it is recognised I think a panic fear that OLAF could enter at any time or that the European Public Prosecutor's Office could enter again. And everything we've read in the media shows that it's true and that's exactly why this establishment of an investigative commission is being pushed aside because they're afraid that the same ruse might happen again as we've experienced and watched here embarrassing the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99605	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99606	Yes, indeed, from the defense we heard from this side, it was also that such a decision, so unconceived, is not in accordance with the law and that means it can't go away for reasons that it doesn't comply. What we've said and we're not against making an amendment, so if we can consider that amendment if that's not the way you think it should be, make an amendment, it'll be considered. Such a decision will be considered and eventually the amendment will be adopted, and all that we hear is actually I don't know here's the fear that's basically justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99607	A colleague, Maric, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99608	Dear and esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, I ask you to ensure, according to Article 238, that work in the assembly is not disturbed. My friend Bačić, I'm sorry, but you're talking all the time, and I can't hear you in this part at all. Dear Vice President, I agree that you warn everyone, but I think your colleague has really gone too far and I'm asking you to give him a heads-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99609	Of course I won't give a warning, but I agree that there should be peace as someone speaks and I will remind you every time, not to give a warning, but to draw attention to not to disturb the speaker. Because everyone has the right to express what they think should be brought out here. Therefore, you can't yell from the bench, and unfortunately you yell from all sides. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99610	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how to start this story on investigative committees. They are so often repeated that they simply seem more or less to us sometimes and debates look the same on every story about investigative committees. Because those who apparently repeat their actions think they will always repeat some different result. It's always the same. We're against this commission because this case is against the law, it's against the law. And what's written like this is even worse today. Only this last presentation from a colleague from the SDP makes us two-handed against this. Because what they're doing doesn't look like anything. I just remembered a title from a few days ago in a daily list where a journalist says this opposition in the Parliament is the sadness of the great, the sadness of the great. Because they're making us watch out for us to raise our hand for this, what are they making us do? I'll try to explain by reading what they wrote in the 11th month of 2021. They shall take data on the effectiveness of the withdrawal of funds from 2019. Look, you write 25.11.2021 and you take the data from 2019 and it says unsuccessfully, they can't withdraw funds, they don't know anything, they don't need a system of surveillance, they don't need a way of working, nothing's wrong. Two years ago, they take the data and it needs to convince us that we're on board. And then they forget through the title itself, i.e. The name of this commission that the system must have started in 2013, someone must have started building, I guess, SDP, Branko Grcic. Nothing, we're starting in 2016. We just want to deal with you. When you look at those 11 questions, they also questioned the prime minister and they questioned him. Why? Because it's politically opportunistic to them. They only want to deal with people. And what fascinates me? That the only policy they've been promoting for years, not the last two dealing with people and their fates, and how they're called these people in the papers, they're being dumped here as hard as they can. I can't answer them, I can't communicate with them, and every word written in the papers is seen as pure truth, undeniable and always proven. When procedures begin, when even a lot of people get rid of everyone... in procedures that last ten years, nothing, we've been shooting with them now with a gentleman who, on my island, made a 5-star hotel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How could you even answer that? Who's allowed to answer? And they forget all theirs. The one from Dubrovnik who took some of his support to the workers, I don't know if they kicked him out of the party, maybe still good, maybe SDP. Or the one from Zadar who did the damage, no, nothing, and some of our colleagues here. That we were like you and we had this grain of badness, so we were talking about some commission to explore some colleagues here in view of what they were doing. Would that be okay? So what do we do about it? What is politics? So look what you say from day to day, and what kind of politics you promote, and then you wonder what people see in you. Nothing. Where are you, where are those policies, where are your programs? A two-proposed SDP theme, a territorial reshuffle, I think something about the social, the silence, the pain, nothing else. That's what we've heard in the past two years. Everything else is an investigation of the investigating bodies. Investigations over all the investigation bodies. We're conducting investigations as parliamentary agents and we're yelling heads here without a problem. It doesn't matter who's name is, we can call anyone. From the president of the country to the last chief. And that's politics. Okay. You think we don't have as many examples as you want, as much as you want. But to sign here that I don't know that the DORH was politically captured, he was captured, so I guess he was released as they write it. Well, then the funds are non-transparently allocated to the likes of the party line. We should raise our hand here for that. Do you agree to raise your hand for what you write? Is that so, did you determine it or what? We want more arguments that are here, that the state, the Commission for the Control of Procedure, did not accept the appeal. And they found that they didn't know what it was or what it wasn't. When they get here, they're great, we all praise them, when we get there, and we don't know how to accept the appeal. And an example of how much you want to accept these untruths as reasons for the commission... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99611	We've got more replicas. The first one's a respected representative of the Iron Mansion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99612	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, this proposal proposes that a parallel body be set up, that the investigative commission be in fact a parallel body that will investigate the entire system of using European funds. And inside, this system is set up so that there are both administrative procedures and procedures concerning supervision. So didn't we just set up the European Research Office and the system works. I'd say the system works well because everything that's wrong is being processed. Everything contrary to the law, all observed irregularities are processed. We can't be the ones who'll be investigating a system that's already in place control within itself. We can only discuss here whether it's good, ask them for reports and discuss whether we can improve that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99613	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99614	Thank you very much. We could have a thematic session on this story if they wanted to. So people who know more about it come to them than we do here. But they don't care, they want to deal with politics and heads. If you have seen examples, we all ask them how can you forget these examples? So last year, at the 7th month, we were asked to remove the immunity of a fellow representative here because he's under investigation because we mention him. You have to start when you see that they just make you have to deal with people. Why people? Well, it's hard enough for them, given that they've reached them, they're still being dumped here every day, every name and last name. And we have to accept it as something. We won't accept that. What they're doing is below the level of MPs who should be dealing with politics in a different way in our own way, and let's just argue as the proposer has said, let's start from the beginning, without prodding arguments, and it's not five minutes past just a stick, there's no arguments, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99615	Thank you. The next replica is respected MP Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99616	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There are no arguments. You know what the arguments and the facts are? The arguments and the facts are that, in fact, of all government ministers, there will be a small number of those who have started the mandate and who will end it in your government of the HDZ government. The arguments and the facts are that your Minister of European Funds has said that she is being referred to the threats "we will drag you through the mud" and "there will be blood to the knees" at meetings attended by Mr. Miljan Brkic and special adviser to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. That's the facts. The facts are also that current Minister Tramišak continued to spy on former Minister Gabriela Žalac by means of the fastest finger to prescribe competitions. And the fact is that you here without arguments were going to attack colleague Vlasic Iljkic just to attack her because the truth hurts you. It's the only fact here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99617	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, raised by a respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99618	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure insulting all of us here and our common sense. My colleagues, if your facts and arguments are newspaper inscriptions, we're not. That's how you call again the name and last name of the people because you read it on a portal somewhere, and you don't hear what the people they're referring to are and the minister herself. You didn't hear that. So all you hear is what you want to hear, and that's how you hit on people by their name and by their last name with mud.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99619	My colleague Jelkovac, it is unfortunately 3 reminders to you, so this one I must take away your word for the rest of the debate on this subject. Someone else has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99620	Art. 238, I'm sorry that you colleagues took over the role of the HDZ majority pit bull today. But I'm not making up anything, you're always accusing us of reading media articles, we're not reading media articles, they're official statements from Minister Tramišak. You have to deal with yourself inside the HDZ, I suggest some more frequent coordination meetings with your ministers to see who's lying because they're obviously lying to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99621	Dear MPs Radolović, it is also a reminder to you because it is a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Deur and you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99622	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have taken over from your president the role of a little pit bull, so you insinuate, lie and insult. That's all you know, so incorrectly, inhuman to people who aren't there to tell lies like this is out of their minds. But that's why the SDP's condition is where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99623	Of course, and it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You also get a third warning, so this one won't be able to talk any further about this subject. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99624	Thank you, Vice President HS. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague inappropriately insulted her colleague Jelkovac by saying what is not to be said here in this assembly. I ask you to take care of what you say and how you address your colleague because we all have the same role here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99625	Thank you very much. That's actually what I'm supposed to say, but this one I have to give you a warning, but that's, that's right. To talk to someone here that's a pit bull, which is the next step, you'll tell someone that I don't know any other animal, I won't, I won't use it. I'm asking you nicely to keep some level of what people expect from this highest home. Those people who chose us here didn't choose us to be offended, they didn't choose us to be called any animals of each other. Not even homework, I agree. [[Blows off the bench: Not even homework]] Therefore, I ask you nicely to think of the dignity of your colleagues, but also of your own dignity because when someone falls into the mud on someone else I assure you his hand remains muddy to him too, so please let us keep some level of communication here. We don't have to get along, and we disagree, which is why there are different parties, but let's communicate at one level as appropriate to this home. Replica, the first answer to the replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99626	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, from your replica, I only remembered the argument and the facts and I remembered today's event in the city of Pula where you are one of the most important politicians in which the SDP coalition is and we can! experienced its failure because you were unable to resolve the predisposition i.e. You solve everything you need to build a private contractor project and you'd rather fall apart than allow what you promised the citizens of that city, and I don't care because I'm also coming from the 8th constituency that you're not actually going to do anything, you're going to block one mayor and now we're going to watch political games... And the fact that you're inclined to file criminal charges... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99627	My colleagues, please don't shout from the scene, you used to speak when others spoke, now please be in place, keep quiet and let the speaker speak. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99628	And that you are inclined to file criminal charges as a way of political struggle in that county is below the level of the politician sitting here in the assembly. It's a disaster, and if you're dealing with it, don't expect something like this someday that won't come to you on the other hand. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99629	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99630	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Boric, here we are listening to projects and competitions being awarded by grandmothers, uncles and fathers, and I would just like to let him go for example. the selection of projects under the Rural Development Programme of the Payment Agency takes place on the basis of the selection criteria approved before each competition by the Rural Development Programme Monitoring Committee and applied equally to all users. In addition, every competition and before publication on all its elemental subject is a process in e-consultation with the aim of enabling as much participation as possible of users, means that the system is complex, that the system is good, that the system works and that we only contribute to these conversations and innuendos that I do not think we should blacken up and do only damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99631	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99632	Thank you very much, colleague, so I think Marco explained very well what levels we have control of all European funds, from the Ministry of Finance through the agency, through the review in Brussels and the audit court. I think that this debate that raises the independence, first of all the DORH, and then the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and then the SAFU and every body of this country that they insist on, those who in 2015 had more than 1,800 detected errors in the system that lasted 2 years, that they teach us when we have percentages below them in terms that individual objects have been observed and that the system that has been competent to do so has to do what they have to do, but they still want a ball with these people. It's sad, like, what, what are we gonna do about it? Nothing, except that they're trying to say we're the honest ones, we're gonna lead you, etc., we're gonna do everything right, and when we look at what they're doing on the ground, disaster, disaster. DELIVERY REINER:
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99633	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99634	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. Is that what Churchill said, if you don't want to solve the problem, set up a commission, but I'm interested here in what you think we should set up a commission if we have the institutions of the state. The prime minister said that zero tolerance for corruption, so we have institutions, work institutions, and all those who sin against the law in any way will come to justice. And I really don't understand who would be in that commission so that they would be such experts that they could solve all the problems that are currently in the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99635	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99636	So probably a colleague would find himself an expert, we hear there's an expert team of Bridges, we have an expert team from this left green block, we have some professions here and in the SDP, but then she'd probably forget about what they're concerned with, and they'd say it's not a topic, etc. It would be found but they want to deal with saying only to people, this government and they don't have policies and citizens need to know or see it. I think they see it because polls show what someone is on this political scene. We see the results where they took responsibility, they don't have a headmaster for 10 months, they don't. They are unable to find 10 people, 15 people to be responsible for individual administrative departments, administrative bodies in the city of Zagreb to the largest city in the Republic of Croatia, are not. But they're expert on all the other bodies in the state, they know everything. You've heard, if you're a candidate, you've already been elected, you've only been chosen, they think you've already been chosen, these are their ways of discussing. But I say it will show time for what happened in Pula, it won't be long before we see Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99637	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99638	Thank you very much. So, counterpart Boris, says this is not how funds are allocated transparently on the party line. We talked today about a system of eu funds, so there's an orderly score, intermediate bodies, governing bodies, supervisory bodies, etc., listening today to how opposition to the barata names and last names of people who have been through this whole system and how all of a sudden by mentioning that these data are transparent, so we found in the transparent data names and last names, and I mentioned that in this decision it says that everything is not transparent. I'm a little confused right now, and I'm thinking if there's a little house in that application and the applicant puts an xic in response that he's a member of the HDZ or some other party, so if a HDZ member was supposed to even compete for funds or end-of-the-end funds if he has that xic in the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99639	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99640	Thank you very much. My colleagues have definitely a problem with us, with HDZ and with this ruling majority, and they know well that there is no electoral law by which they can win the elections, except that they black us here all day long and we sitting here every day. And it fascinates their courage to deal with the names here as done facts knowing that you can't answer them and they keep doing it. I'm looking at this, and I don't know if I'm getting a proposal from Mr. Grbin, Bauk, looking at him here boring, looking at the ceiling like I was supposed to do today to embarrass myself with some kind of clock and asking HDZ to sign these claims, that the fastest finger is a disaster they've ever written that it's not, just to find out, that it's an inappropriate method of calling public competitions. How did we get the funds from that program for.../The speaker speaks English/...? The fastest finger, it was okay, it can get out of other parts of the EU, and with us it can't Because right away, it's unfair. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99641	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99642	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. This amount of insolence and stupidity that the colleague said among other things was that this investigative committee would carry out and investigate potential corrupt activities. I wonder, what powers would the commission get from, what criteria would be managed, and when you look at the questions here that are asked then it's actually a supernatural commission that would regulate the entire systems of all possible governments, states, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99643	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99644	Thank you very much, dear colleague. They'd explore the words and above the DORH above UskoK, the PNUSKOK of all these investigative bodies, the press bodies in the Republic, here are our investigators from the opposition, each day investigate, and then find out that the DORH is not doing his job, that he's politically captured, that OLAF has provided him with certain items, four objects of a number no, and then the DORH door says he's filed three charges, one rejected as unfounded. Now what? We're no longer politically trapped since the recent events, and now we're trapped, so we're not trapped. What if that DORH gets loose and starts doing something on their side, what are we gonna hear? Because when I remember the story from 2016 when the Ministry of Agriculture filed a criminal report, he called, not to file a criminal report, but to invite the authorities in first of all to come in and determine what happened to her competition. It says USKOK we're running investigative operations, six years here are the investigative shops now probably not the story, because it's ahead of 2017, so we won't pay attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99645	Thank you. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99646	Dear colleague Boric. Let's forget for a moment that both you and the ministers mentioned in this proposal are members of the rightful convicted party for corruption and let's agree that we are in the interest of establishing a system of management and allocation of funds from eu funds in such a way that no minister, no one else's principal is arrested for a reason at six o'clock in the morning, prosecuted, that the media, the parties, the public is engaged in stealing public money from the most positioned people. I don't know why you're so resistant to this proposal that you're just investigating whether there are problems in the system that we can solve?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99647	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99648	I am in my position that the system exists and that parliamentary representatives are not better investigators than our press system, than DORH, USKOK and PNUSKOK, and that they are primarily politicians and that they would rather be politically tried than in any other way. That's true. And as for a colleague of the power of the HDZ verdict, he paid his sentence, was convicted as a responsible legal person for the individual's actions, and we did so. And you can use an expression that pleases you. As I would say, one of them was the Trade Court and the SDP convicted and said that Kikasha had to pay something because they cheated on the campaign and didn't show any information. Whom the court has reached, I have reached for it but you are not the party with the example of your president to teach us any moral lessons and what we should be doing, you are not and that will be told by the citizens in the next election. You'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99649	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99650	Thank you. Here is also after Ljuba Česic Royce and Ljubo Česic Royce thank you for reminding us of this Mr. Boric and inventing the new version of the man who put the pit in when you said now, ah, whom the court has reached, he has reached who he is, he has. So, I will repeat what the requirements are and what is the function of the Research Commission, so the function of the Research Commission is to determine whether there have been political pressures on the Director of SAFU, and then from the Director of SAFU to SAFU officials not only on the issue that the court has obtained, or the DORH has not reached, the DORH has missed them, but rather... Reached but also where there are others who have not reached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we ask to determine whether there were such political pressures and ask to determine whether the case under investigation was under the Prime Minister's knowledge that the director of SAFU, knowing that the staged tender was signed. So it is very specific questions to which we are looking for concrete answers. However, as in the case of JANAF and when we asked for an investigative commission on the issue of political pressures on the investigative authorities which you also refused because it was too wide and then we saw on this case whether or not there were political pressures when the whole country realized that this case and the case would have failed because there was no European Prosecutor's Office because the DORH for some reason ignored the statements of SAFU officials who testified that they had warned Petrica that it was a set-up public procurement. And the DORH let it go. And yes, if it wasn't for the EPPO, we wouldn't be talking about this today. It's about what? Initially about the possible political pressures on the investigative authorities that we wanted to investigate with the investigation committee regarding the JANAF case which you also did not give because it was too wide. Every topic you declare here is too wide for six months to one year after that, it becomes too narrow for some and spatially narrow in the rooms of Remetinca. That's how it's gonna be with this. I'll just say what it is, I'll repeat for the citizens what this case is about, so your minister first evaluated the public procurement for this software at 5.7 million kuna. Then she increased it to 9.8 million kuna. She wanted to directly contract it, she couldn't, DCOM didn't give it to her, then she had to go back to public procurement, which was, of course, re-scheduled for the same company this time in consortium with someone else to cover it up and increase from 9.8 million to 12.99 million kuna. These are all the amounts I speak without VAT, 12.99. In the end, it was determined that the business was worth 2.1 million kuna. So it's not just about trying to set up a tender, it's about intentional and deliberate, premeditated withdrawal of money from EU funds so that someone doesn't charge for their job, but to overpaid it six times, to overpaid it six times, that's what this is about. That's what we want to talk about. Did any of the other political officials know about it and how it was possible that they didn't know, if it was clear in 2019 because of the investigation against Zalac, but also because of journalist Telegram's press work. Just before, Mr. Boric, let me just answer you because it's very, very significant. You say 10 months they can't find, they don't have people to find themselves a headmaster because we're looking for them at the competition. You've never done this before, so you don't know how long the competitions last, and you don't know how long they last when 10 people call, because you have this one that you've agreed with. Of course you don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99651	We've got more replicas. The first is a respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99652	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, how you comment on the fact that when our Zagreb branch was being formed, let's say the European prosecutor in Zagreb was supposed to be the first four places, but there were two plus Mrs. Laptoš, and now here is the information that I came across calling a competition for two more. So there will obviously be a lot more work for the European Public Prosecutor's Office with us. According to data, there are currently 35 items that point to possible abuses of EU funds, and 25 cases have been delivered by the DORH after 10 November, and we all remember that unpleasant press conference when both the director and the principal of the USKOK and the chief state attorney had it not been for the European office I don't think this affair too, Ms. Žalac would have been revealed. Obviously, our institutions screwed up a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99653	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99654	So here's to underline, that the DORH is all the same materials, the same investigation that he got from the EPPO. The EPPO decided to launch an investigation, the DORH didn't. The DORH also has testimony from the people in the system about this particular thing. So there was pressure to let it go and there was a warning that it was a set public procurement. And this case has revealed that it is possible, we cannot argue, that it is possible that there have been political pressures from DORH, that they may have calculated that EPPO will not take the old ones, but EPPO has the right to take items from 2017 beyond when the regulation exists. And what's most important in this story. When the DORH missed doing this, but he didn't miss doing it in the Horvat case, the prime minister's reaction to the Horvat case and the arrest of Horvat was a direct attack on the DORH, which made it clear, okay, I didn't control this situation, so it happened to me. So we see how the prime minister reacts when things don't go the way he expected it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99655	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99656	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Bencic, you said earlier that you wanted concrete answers to very specific questions, so now I really want one but really concrete answer from you. How did you imagine the work of this committee, since it was thousands of cases, thousands of projects that have been implemented, how would you choose the items that you will, which you will process, or which you will investigate? Would you go at all or would you go by some kind of party criteria or would you simply go by that system we would be processing, who we wouldn't or would stick to some media inscriptions, etc.? How come you, how did you even imagine this one to spend thousands and thousands of objects? Here if you can tell me but very specifically. And in six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99657	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99658	I unfortunately know everything about the party principle would know nothing unlike you and your party who is the only truly hereditary communist party in Croatia and by the membership you have, and by the methods of action which, unfortunately, my generation neither knows nor is fortunate. And as for how we work, no, we wouldn't work by taking thousands of objects but by working so that people who are in charge of control at the Central Financial and Contracting Agency, who are department leaders, ask if there have ever been political pressures to treat certain projects or project holders equally. We would also ask the prime minister further people who are officials and are in the chain of decision-making around the EU funds, whether they knew about this situation with the setting up of competitions in the case of Zhalac and whether they knew about some other ones as well as the affairs that are under investigation now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99659	Thank you. A colleague of mine was raised by a colleague of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99660	... that you want to somehow bring people in, or play some kind of investigators, and especially judges, that by the system of cadiums and suing you, when you judge this, that, personally, I don't think it's the role of Parliament, or the role of MPs, or this commission. [[Specially enabled.]] If the legal institutions with which it is regular, regular activities aren't trained to investigate it, and you think you're going to name someone and do better, then you're really very ambitious I can't, but by this very way we're going to bring this one, we're going to bring this one. You kind of remind me of some, some past tenses. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99661	Comrade Shashin, it was a replica and you're getting a second warning. Uh, we have a replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99662	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bencic, you say after Royce, Royce, I'll tell after Bandic, Bandic. That's what all Zagrebers tell you especially in the way of employment. ... Everyone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99663	Comrade Bencic, what's the matter with you? What makes you think to answer like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99664	Maybe not these couples of yours you have, but the model of Zagreb Holding, 15 leading functions, 5 from SDP, 2 close colleagues from the bench. How is that possible? So you said the contests should last here as long as you haven't been able to find the headmasters for 10 months. What are you waiting for? When will you start working? When will you start working? When are you going to do a bigger project in this town that we know here for four years we haven't thrown anything away? You're gonna tell us stories here, log in for some words, etc. How did that mediation at the Zagreb Holding get to you? Are these employment models? We replaced you, where you're going now, you want to go there, you're not going there, nothing took three days until the lady comes up with the mediation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99665	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99666	Mr. Boric will see that you don't know that negotiation procedure with the unions, but good about it afterwards. I'll answer you, I'll answer you like this. Today, your representative in the assembly, Mislav Herman, is dead cold. In front of all the media, he complains. That's right, that's in between. [[/Intruder: Who are we looking at Matula, what is wrong with you?]] Invented jobs, among the imaginary jobs that have been abolished, are now abolished, and therefore these people will no longer be able to work disproportionately many HDZs, and now that is political rematch because what kind of them has such a lot? [[You're not on stage, you know you can't cry so loud and interrupt.]] Well, that's because those jobs were made up for them. So, people laugh at you, read your comments on social media on that, on Mr. Herman's grief. that so many HDZs are on the list of those who no longer have jobs. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99667	My colleague Matul, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99668	Yes, Mr. Vice President. You really hurt an art. In 238, you insulted me, you called my laugh you disobeyed this argument because this is really ridiculous. And you can't tell me it's a show, but I really laughed like everybody laughed today, believe me, even your HDZ colleagues in the assembly. You said it was a grin, that I wasn't on stage. That's offensive, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99669	You're getting a warning about that. Because you did it. [[/Matula's Intruder: Why?]] I didn't mean to warn you, but now that you've done it, you've disrupted the pay phone, maybe you didn't want to, of course, but you've disrupted the pay phone with loud laughter, which is completely inappropriate, completely inappropriate. So, please, next line. Honored representative Glavasevic. [[/Matula raid: That's funny.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members Bencic, what we could see throughout this debate, and especially from comments and replicas of both colleagues Boric and colleagues of Šašljin, that here, whether there is a deliberate or accidental misunderstanding and differences between criminal responsibility, moral responsibility and political responsibility. Can you explain briefly how much time you have for replication or for responding to this replica to colleagues and colleagues what is the difference between these three types of responsibility and what should be the consequences for these three types of responsibilities, and yet again the Institute of the Research Commission exists in HS because where else should political responsibility be precisely determined if not here? In the end, the Rules of Procedure, which knows the Institute of the Research Commission, was adopted by a consensus involving both these colleagues and colleagues there on the other side of the assembly. So just tell them why they raised their hands because they obviously forgot, even though some weren't there, so maybe they should be forgiven by their colleague Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99671	Let's please do this first, first silence and let your colleague speak. Here you are, dear representative Bencic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99672	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Glavasevic, for asking, and it is actually one of the key questions that we have every time we look for an investigative committee. Therefore, the investigation committees do not establish criminal liability, the investigation committees do not establish any other kind of legal liability. It is determined by the investigating committees whether it was, whether it was political responsibility, knowledge of information that could lead to the political responsibility of the officials, so that's what we're interested in. However, the idea that even if you had an investigative commission of the prime minister, for example, or someone else who is found to be politically responsible, would indeed bear that political responsibility in a country in which the government survives, although its three active officials under criminal investigations may be naive, but thinks that we must insist...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99673	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Juričev Martinchev./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99674	/... because without political responsibility there will be no normal country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bencic, you were saying that you were looking for the establishment of this committee to get a concrete answer to the specific question of whether political pressure is being placed on someone, a service or an employee. You must know very well that every employee has an obligation to report any suspicion of fraud and corruption and immediately inform the DORH, if of course he is afraid he has the opportunity to do so anonymously. Do you really think he'll do this if he doesn't do it anonymously and he hasn't already done it in front of a commission of 15 parliamentary representatives, professional services, etc. Or is this just pure politics? You were talking about political pressure, do you think when a political body is because it's a political body composed of 15 parliamentary deputies asking someone from DORH, USKOK, etc. Isn't political pressure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99676	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99677	I don't think asking a question is ever political pressure, I think it's political pressure when you tell someone directly and directly that I'm paraphrasing, that they've crossed the line, that they shouldn't have allowed it, or when the prime minister says they should have informed me, or when it's even being discussed, etc. or precedent, it's precedentd to arrest the minister on Saturday morning, when the premiums tell the DORH yes, it's political pressure. Asking questions isn't political pressure. However, when you say whether someone would say it to the committee, that is, the question is a legitimate question, if he did not dare to apply anonymously. However, it is not true that no one has ever registered anonymously, however, some officials have testified before the DORH. We don't know the contents of these testimonies, and we don't know if they were related just to that case. Or they talked more widely about political pressures. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99678	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99679	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Bencic. From the debates of the ruling majority, especially colleagues, I have gained the impression that they are the most concerned about SDP policies, which is not bad, so they want us well. And I want good to HDZ, and I have a feeling that we're going to reach a consensus on this proposal that they're going to accept it because such criticisms were that it's too wide-ranging if we narrow it down, so the questions are too broadly asked, so let's just narrow down the questions. I would only narrow down to the question, to what extent did Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic know about the criminal activities of his party colleagues and what is his responsibility? Can you comment on that for me? And are you willing to accept such suggestions from the ruling majority that we simply narrow this issue down and say let's look into whether Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic knew about criminal activities, whether he manages, orders these criminal acts or not, and we will solve the whole problem and the full responsibility of HDZ regarding the allocation of funds from eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99680	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99681	Thank you. That's right, colleague Ahmetovic. We could absolutely do it. We could have done it at the beginning, it was clear to us, however, if we had asked such a question, it would have been too narrow for an investigative commission, and besides, it would have been dealt with in criminal proceedings. If, apart from one issue which is a key issue of political responsibility, you ask the question of how we as a parliament can determine which gaps are in the institutional framework, and so that we can prevent such situations in the future. Then he can't. That's when it's too wide. Because in fact, HDZ disagrees with the idea that parliament can establish political responsibility. Not only can he not, that he can establish it, he can't investigate it, and they don't want him to be able to investigate it because they publicly participate in the process. And that's why they'd rather end the law on investigative committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99682	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99683	Thank you. A colleague of Bencic's. Here we are witnessing today how banalizing and trivializing this proposal of our committee and the question is raised here are continuous, very banal issues, which would make this commission work, as if the democratic world, especially the European Parliament, did not know any of these tools at all. So the key things in improving their entire system lie precisely on such committees, parliamentary, but only in democratic European countries, because we are witnessing that unfortunately we have several deep-seated parliaments and regimes already in Europe. Does this actually say something in which the ruling party insists on rejecting us and what they are afraid of?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99684	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99685	Not in this mandate, but in the beginning of last term, HDZ has done everything it could with different mechanisms, which could have gone institutionally, legally and in other ways, to marginalise parliament, as well as its role in political life. They reduced parliament to a voting machine that gets, we all know, which gets the agenda for the debates, which start on Tuesday or Wednesday, on Friday afternoon. Friday afternoon. So much for how many MPs can get deeper, deeper analysis, conclusions, etc. in debates with citizens. Parliament has been deliberately put to sleep, and this refusal of every investigative committee is merely a confirmation that the HDZ Parliament does not need but there it says in the Constitution that you must have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99686	The next replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99687	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Bencic. You say we should investigate whether there were political pressures in any competitions, etc. What does that mean? That every political equalist must therefore be monitored through text, through e-mails, through monitoring physically, etc. to have an overview of what, who deals with whom, therefore, all the communication that exists between political like-mindeds. Because then maybe there wouldn't be any influence. What is it, then, the new OZNA, the new UDJA, the new KOS. What would you establish?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99688	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99689	So for you, parliamentary investigative committees that determine political responsibility are possible political responsibilities of officials, OZNA. So when we talk about what the pressures are. I'll tell you what the pressures are. I'm going to give you a very specific example. The clerk finds an irregularity in the public procurement of a user's funds. Determine a correction of 25% or determine a larger correction. And then he comes in two days from the top, and he's still a little loose, and he's not banging that correction. Here's your political pressure. And the reason why it moves the correction is because, for example, it is about the municipality in which the ruling party is in power. Here are the political pressures you don't want to hear here in parliament because the whole public would hear them. That's not what you want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99690	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99691	Thanks again. What we want to determine in this investigative committee is not just irregularities and illegal actions, we argue that the whole system is now that it is set up like this simply doesn't work. And you know for a fact that the financial envelope and the programming period is called 2021, 2027, we still don't have any feedback on our operational programmes or what's going on with the entire financial envelope. At the SDP club, our MPs, several times already wrote by Minister Tramišak, but in good old custom, we should be responsible for the words spoken here, but we ministers and government officials are not responding to the parliamentary questions, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure itself, but you already know that. But to get back to the scale of things. While on one side through the affair software, the ceremony of the project Slavonia-Baranja-Srijem, omega, now a new affair and all those ine of the affair, the affairs that have been discovered for agglomeration in Croatian waters etc. users at lower levels are really bitter, little to say bitter. On the one hand, users are constantly getting corrections in the so-called system. ordinary users who, when the smallest thing happens to be a failure, say in the procurement documents, do not adopt the osmack recommendation ex ante or their control body and the intermediate body to instruct them to put something in ex ante, and then simply according to the State Commission for the Control of Procedure, claim that it is not good, get an appeal that is adopted has no body corrections in the system. For example, for example, the control bodies do not receive an advance request which is required under the rules to grant users within 30 days. A request for compensation by the control authorities, including SAFU, shall not be subject to review within 30 days. Payments that are due to be made within 30 days after examination of the so-called so-called The ZNS don't win. Users like those private entrepreneurs in the public sector are on their knees, unfortunately, because of projects implemented by EU funds. So, completely paradoxical, completely reverse as it should be. And the fact is that users who report projects from EU funds report them for project activities that will, for example, lead to scientific discoveries, improve the position of socially endangered people in the community, a certain activity infrastructure will arise. Therefore, project activities and their results are the reason why users will access preparation and applications and later implementation of the project. In that sense, today we have a situation where they're just so-called. users are overly burdened with the implementation, implementation and application of EU projects, while some privileged rules do not apply. The projects are approved and we have seen one click of the mouse by method the fastest finger, and the financial corrections that we are to be honest, here I am now working on 10 EU projects we get an EU financial correction from the control bodies when we say good day, when we respond to the email. Here, that's how the system works. Unfortunately I say there are privileged rules of value for them too. Nor should it be said that sometimes we EU fund users require documents that do not exist, we do not have them in the institution itself or in the organisation of users. Often control bodies are required to change project leaders, for example, on projects you have in SAFU people who leave after a year, two operations at SAFU go to better paid jobs and are recruited by private consulting firms, which is perfectly normal because they are underpaid. 6,000 kuna net wages for someone who runs a 600-700 million kuna agglomeration project, several of these projects are not normal. Of course, such people in that system are bitter. It is not necessary to say that we have outsmarted users and that soon the SAFU's instructions on the application and interpretation of the Public Procurement Act will have a page more than the Public Procurement Act itself, and only then will we come up with problems not only of interpretation but that users should swim between different interpretations and hope that they will not receive financial correction, and there is no actual communication and coordination between the managing body, control bodies and intermediation bodies. The only thing we've seen when it exists is when it comes to privileges and when it comes to corruption like it was a software affair. Furthermore, the application of the Public Procurement Act today in Croatia to ordinary users exceeds common sense, while for some privileged This law does not apply at all. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99692	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99693	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Radolovic, so I am sorry that all these suggestions have never been formulated in the proposal, you are a member of my Committee on the EU Funds, we do not see you much. So, the committee will soon come to discuss the regulations of the bodies in the system, and we will call on ministers to discuss the new system. First we went to take care of the National Recovery Programme where Croatia is the fifth country after withdrawal. We withdrew a billion and a half euros. The commission's position was to first go to the National Recovery Programme to resolve, then operational programmes. I didn't even get a memo from you with these questions. Send, we'll have a thematic session on both this and any questions. Here, I didn't refuse any points on the board. Dearly beloved, all of this you have said is to formulate in a memo... And I don't see you so often on the board as active. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have days of EU funds when we're all ministers and... discussed programming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, Be active on the board. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99694	Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99695	I'm glad you said that because you haven't called your resolution board in a few months. I will also be glad to even send e-mails to all MPs for proposing on the points of the Assembly Committee itself. It's no secret that you're running a quite North Korean, dictatorially, that your board sessions last half an hour for very important topics. This is no secret, and unfortunately, like you, I don't have time for my job at the university, commitment at the assembly, I don't have time to walk around conferences about EU Fund Day, but I am actively reporting implementation of EU funds projects. The conflict of interest, very interesting of this, very interesting of your interpretation. However, I must say one other thing that I have suggested to you a few suggestions even told you that if you don't adopt them I will call you a thematic session, but you have disobeyed it. That's what you know. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99696	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99697	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you said I'd quote, the control system is not good. The control system has been set up according to the European Commission's rules and functions in all EU countries, and if any irregularities are detected, this is being processed. Or do you think you could intervene in the rules of the European Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99698	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99699	I appreciate the question. No, I don't think so, nor do we propose it here today. It is simply a fact that there is no clear coordination between all these bodies, that we do not have a strong leverage in the ministry. Here's an eclectic example of this last one with the cancellation of competitions for petrin entrepreneurs where a five-month drop-off contest was opened again in order to establish that the fastest finger is going again. First, the ministry explained that entrepreneurs would not be able to spend their resources in time, and then we got a second explanation within a few days that the omassage again had the sinful administration of Ms. Miskovic launched the procedure and the quickest finger itself and that the competition must simply be annulled. That's what I'm talking about, things like that, not the rules of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99700	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99701	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Radolovic, here I come from Varazdin County and I can really say that we are the county that is at the very top of the withdrawn EU funds. And it's interesting that we have local self-government units or municipalities and cities where HDZ's are not the mayors or mayors and they're all getting funding, they're pulling evenly from EU funds. However, I can even say that as for education and even this development of energy, perhaps even those who had better conditions and means they had a number of programmes. And I don't see any reason, and I'm really surprised to hear what kind of trouble you're facing. I can really tell you that in our county I think 90% of this project wasn't really such a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99702	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99703	I thank that finding, the explanation, it's obvious that it's not the same everywhere, that it's in different regions. You have a report we can actually say so-called. Report and statistics on financial corrections issued. The fact is that it actually varies very much from the control body to the control body, and it should all be better checked out. I'm glad the situation in your county is like that. I absolutely welcome that. I have to say that it's diametrically opposite, that the bodies get corrections even when we can tell them and they don't deserve it. So, when they're not doing something illegal, when it's not some kind of mistreatment, when it's even some kind of failure, but I repeat, the fact is that for some users these rules don't apply and that they just don't get any corrections even when they're acting incorrectly and illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99704	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99705	Thank you very much. My colleagues here listen to this debate all the time, mostly European funds are a very important source for funding numerous projects. But the fact is that we have a problem, that we have a problem with Minister Žalac's former prime minister and government defending her pain. They simply refused to accept even the prime minister said he would never leave again even though he was on eyelashes. We have a problem and bad messages by Milorad Pupovac who says no Milosevic has the right to investigate no bodies of the DORH, these, they, of course, must express myself thus, the entrenched HDZ even HDZ ministers are bringing in BUSKAR, but Milosevic won't. So we have bad messages and you have this very request where people don't believe in the judiciary and that's the basic problem. The problem of economic security and development is the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99706	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99707	Yes, I absolutely agree with you. We have that problem. It was visible in the software affair. It's really amazing to me as someone who can, I can say that I have some experience in implementing these projects and I actually find it very suspicious to say that within the SAFU, only the director of the agency has been arrested because watch the ex post control that she's been through and the purchase for that software works in SAFU 10 to 15 people. So I don't think the principal could have acted alone. I am really interested in what will happen in the coming months on this issue, and perhaps for years, given the effectiveness of solving cases in our judiciary. But I remain responsible for saying that it was not only one person who could stand behind it because ex post controls for EU projects therefore verify more variables within the procurement itself and it will be interesting to actually monitor what is going to happen to that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99708	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99709	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned adjustments regarding the use of European funds. There is now a concern that Croatian farmers will lose 10% of the total amount means some 30m euros, i.e. 230m kuna, which will come as a correction or punishment for additional administrative controls or irregular payments. The fact that lately we've been discussing the documents in the area of agriculture with great delay. That's how we recently discussed the agriculture strategy until 2030 with a delay of 2 years, the Law on the Compassion of Agricultural Land, meaning all this affects the fact that the funds that could be used have not been used in the way they were supposed to be used. How do you comment on the effectiveness or frequency of adopting these regulations?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99710	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99711	Thank you, dear colleagues, for not only the problem of the corrections that will come. We had the opportunity to read that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic himself had to intervene with the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Vukkovic, given the inefficientness from the Strategic Plan for Agriculture 2021-2027, which is precisely closely linked to getting these adjustments. Unfortunately, we spoke today, I'm not going to talk about names, I see that colleagues from HDZ are very angry with the publicly available data, and now on the rural development program page, I just looked at it, they're very angry with the Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem project, at the allocation of funds for wineries, farms, plantations, etc., but that's unfortunately the fact that we're all going to get pocketed for it. You yourself listed the amount of this financial correction that will be for agriculture. Those aren't small funds you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99712	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99713	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here at the end of today's debate I really expected that we would go in the direction that on behalf of the promoter, a colleague of the Grbins, that if I am not mistaken, we would talk constructively. However, what I have to admit to myself is that it was almost even shocking that, in fact, here today, all the slanders, the shames, the insults as much as it doesn't sound to you. So, here mentioning many names that I honestly don't know about, in this way linking them to any possible suspicious actions in the public space hidden behind parliamentary immunity in me is not worthy of a parliamentary representative. I don't know if you're aware of the weight of what you've said here, to people who aren't here, who can't defend themselves, because somewhere in the media. I'm not talking about the 1% you later on in defense, two cases in front of the DORH. And in doing so, forgetting everything that's been initiated, for example, towards the members of your party. That's the part you forgot. That doesn't interest you, it doesn't suit you in your political agenda. I don't think that's the way we're supposed to be having this debate. It's not really on the trail of what your President and Proposer said. So this, I'm going to say the article again, as I keep saying for any such proposal or for impelation or for setting up an investigative commission, because that's what it really is, I'm saying it as a lawyer, under full responsibility, it's only for you to actually ensure visibility in some kind of political sky. And you can see that today. So in all these 11 questions that you've listed here, you haven't actually touched any. Most of the time you've been talking about former Minister Žalac, about Petric, about something that can't even be the subject of this investigation committee based on Article 4. And that was very likely clear to you, so you weren't afraid to fall into a trap, so you went, like, we're going to put up these 11 questions, just so we have some topic, that we can do something under the table. That was probably the plan. And then you went to that other trap that you fell into, which is the uncertainty of all these 11 questions that you've asked here. What I think is even worse, and perhaps the worst of all that in this way, by making such claims in public you're actually jeopardizing this entire system that you're supposed to be fighting for. Such statements to the unverified, easy-thinking, that the system doesn't work, that there are criminal acts, you're jeopardizing the work of all those who do business consciously. So here you call the entire SAFU for example. 400 people working there. Did you wonder how many of these people work daily, what they do, how they do, what their results are? So in this way in public space, to present such facts is quite brave. I'd say irresponsible. Did you think you were going to talk about, say, that by March this year, projects worth 13.4 billion euros were agreed. That 7.3 billion euros were paid. That the Republic of Croatia has 55 billion kunas more paid than it has paid in the EU budget, for example. That would be some constructive debate. We here these questions, for example here were said if I did not cheat on my colleague Ahmetovic, did anyone know about the criminal activities in the allocation of funds. What criminal acts, they've been established by some powerful verdicts. The investigation committee will determine what, what criminal acts. There is in this country and the DORH and the judiciary, a judicial system that we constantly point out is independent and independent. You still have a problem understanding what it means to be an independent and independent judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, which at one point you say isn't on your own, that it's under HDZ's paws, then until it's no longer a narrative for you, then someone is no longer putting pressure on that judiciary. The HDZ is always clear on this. So DORH is doing his job. There is a whole system of control, my colleague Pavić explained it very well. How many pillars there are, from the managing bodies, ARPA, EC revoir, the European Court of Auditors, so if you do not trust the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, you must trust the EU institutions. If you don't trust them, then you've made it very clear what your opinion of yourself is and I don't think it's the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99714	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99715	Thank you very much, dear fellow, here's something you've just said, and I've also come across one of your interviews a few months ago, when you said that we believe in institutions and domestic and European which are the establishment in the EU funds control system, you've also mentioned that there are four levels of control system of EU funds, and I'm going to remind you that the order of the European public prosecutor currently has 35 cases, means a 1-month figure that I have, which indicates possible abuse of EU funds, also reminds me of that press conference where both the Director of the USOKOK and the chief state attorney of redness, have admitted that there has been a failure, if anything else in the case of Kajac, and have acknowledged the inconvenience. So, can you, after all this, still claim that everything is very clean, everything we've heard so far, everything we've read and there's no doubt in favors or political pressures. And what would you have done since you wouldn't accept this proposal on the investigative committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99716	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99717	Thank you very much. I won't accept it because it's illegal. Second, I don't have that luxury, and I can't afford that luxury to determine whether or not someone wronged the law. Therefore, there are judicial institutions in this country that will ultimately determine this. The European Public Prosecutor, i.e. a delegated European Public Prosecutor, is pleased that you mentioned this, just as the Republic of Croatia is one of the first EU member states that has been transposed by its legislation, has transposed the regulation so that the EV to establish such an office in the Republic of Croatia. And that's good, and I support it. I don't think anyone in this House, I hope they don't mind. That office is doing its job, things are being investigated, and it is ultimately the court that will determine it. So I repeat, I certainly won't talk here whether it's all clean or something isn't clean. I'm as much of a luxury as you do with the opposition I won't let for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99718	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99719	Thank you very much, dear colleague, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, and I, too, had this debate absolutely below the level I expected precisely for these names, which we had in this House 4 levels of control, plus 2 in Brussels and Luxembourg, came from the Law on the Institutional Framework, which this assembly of Parliament discussed in two readings, nowhere at all there was a speech about the investigative committees. After that, different names were constructed, here was the mention of special adviser Savic, who was denied this morning, that it was constructed, neither the minister nor he, denied any threats. So we have control of the system, we could discuss, we have new operational programs now, let's discuss how to improve the governance system, which bodies what, but this today absolutely below the level of debate I expected in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99720	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99721	I thank my colleague Pavić, so he may have forgotten to mention it, and in the context of the domestic bodies, for example, the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the DORH, the internal affairs, the finance they all, in fact, within the act of AFKOS, is therefore another level that was not really here today but you, I think, in my opening statement, you mentioned that moment. I would actually use this time to mention when we talked about the investigative commission and the uncertainty of your question, so you could look at at at least 5 examples of which the investigative committees in this Croatian Assembly were founded where they were defined and very clear. So, for example, you had an investigative commission that determined the facts about the purchase of 39 military trucks. You had a commission to determine the facts of the privatisation of INA. You had something to do with the Immunology Institute. You had, for example, Agrokor. So, next time get ready, look at what went past the procedure, which went through some principle, through some principle of legality, and I don't think we're going to have this debate that we're having right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99722	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99723	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Habib, here's what I really expected when I got this proposal that there might be a more concrete, constructive debate, but when I looked at the proposal and these questions that need to be checked, it was all clear to me in which direction it would go. Here, so I'd go back to these calling calls. And I found it here on the page that the names were mentioned so here it is that the gentleman, the Francis Lučić family, received 14.6 million kunas to build a holding facility for dairy cows, but the project has not been realised so far and the company has not paid any kuna, so here I am asking you as a lawyer for your opinion. They say it's paid off, so here's what I'm asking you if it hasn't been paid off what in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99724	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99725	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So, I can repeat what I said. So, I don't generally talk, I don't talk about things that I don't have enough information about, and the fact is that I could. So, I repeat, I don't have that luxury as apparently some MPs and MPs have. So, I certainly won't allow it, and I certainly won't enter in this way especially in public space in the Croatian Parliament to call anyone for what I'm not sure, but I read somewhere on Facebook, somewhere on, in a portal or in some newspaper. So if it's a source of information enough to talk in public space about anyone with a specific name and last name, I'm really not going to let myself and congratulate those who have a face to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99726	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What do you think is the purpose of the existence of an investigative committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99728	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99729	As far as I'm concerned, thank you, well-respected representative Glavasevic, so as far as the functions of the investigation committee are concerned, it is very clear to you, so if I am not mistaken in Article 1 and Article 2. The law on investigative committees. What I was talking about is why I disagreed with this way, firstly because it is illegal for the reasons where questions are defined, secondly because some of them refer to ongoing court proceedings, so Article 3 and Article 4, so very clearly. A good example is these five decisions to set up the commission that I mentioned. So, from Agrokor, from the purchase of 39 specifically military vehicles, so where are the issues, look at the questions in which they are formulated and where they met this form and the conditions prescribed by this law on investigation committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99730	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99731	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of your party who have achieved certain grants and which names have been published, and which are extremely disturbing to you or when we talk about those to whom certain procedures are being initiated, and at the same time you list other names and names of non-members, and they are possibly part of certain procedures. It's at least hypocritical of you. But my question would be any measure necessary to introduce you in order to introduce a stronger independent control of the availability of EU funds, if this commission does not answer you in this way according to what you say is not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99732	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99733	Thank you, I would like to answer this question to you that you asked me, and I will answer when I get an answer to my question that I asked you exactly the same, but you've got very skillfully out of it. As for the control and the measures that you mentioned here in your question. So, I'll tell you again. You have 4 pillars, from the managing bodies, ARPE, you have auditors of the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors, AFKOS, etc., so the system works well. The fact that it doesn't suit you at a given moment and you would suggest something, and you don't yourself know in these 6-7 hours that we're discussing here what, that's your problem. So, anyway, I'm kind of hoping for the end of this debate that I'll hear the answer you're proposing. So we think the system is good. We think the control system is good, and that's what it's proving to be. And I don't think you can underline that I mentioned your former member, Grgic, which is the first case that the European prosecutor has initiated proceedings and investigations with this list of people who are neither guilty nor debtors, are not present, cannot defend themselves, and are under some suspicion of some criminal activity. It's not the same and it's not hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99734	The next debate will be a respected representative of Bacic. Here, colleague Matula, I didn't say anything, but I called my colleague Bačić, you don't like it, or what, why, are you going to replicate to me? ... Yeah, well, he hasn't been yet, he didn't even get to the pay phone, yeah, well, I didn't realize... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't realize you were psychic. I'm sorry. Here's my colleague, Bacic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Pavic said he expressed the position of the HDZ Club. What I would tell you is that this document was signed by 22 representatives of the opposition. How convincing you are in the argument of this document best tells the fact that you failed to convince yourself at the level of the opposition that this is good, justified and reasoned. When I look at this middle part of the assembly that there are no colleagues of Bulja to whom I thank and congratulate him for being persistent and waiting for his turn to discuss the individual of 22 proposings here are 6 or 7. Of the reporters who are 11 here is 3 or 4. Well, I guess if you were so convinced of the correctness, the argumentation of what you are proposing to the Croatian Parliament would probably be the rapporteurs here and I guess we would be the promoters. It is sad to see the left hand side of the assembly which proposes a document and empty, empty completely, almost here I can count on the fingers of one hand the representatives who here on this right hand side assure us that this document is justified etc. We will not accept it primarily for formal and legal reasons, because it does not comply with the Law on Investigation Commissions and with the law that was written back in '96. 26 years ago, when the justice system of Croatia was completely changed in the meantime and in the case of law enforcement and courts, etc. But even under such a document, you failed to write an adequate document. And we will not accept it for content reasons, because as much as you are trying here in the Croatian Parliament, and there is not much to show that the system of use of funds in Croatia is illegal, speculative, dubiously denying your data, data that in 2014 Croatia has been granted 11 billion euros, that, in the meantime, since the government of Andrej Plenkovic came, there has been an extremely dynamic period in which we have contracted almost 130% to date, that 70% has been paid to this day, that we finance 90% of all public investment in Croatia at an annual level of 20 billion kuna. And we are aware that there are embezzlements in this, we are aware that there are problems and there are already four levels of responsibility already mentioned. However, the tendency of individuals to embezzle sometimes does not make Croatia exclusive. Of the 27 EU member states 22 have organised and established the European Public Prosecutor's Office, 22. Among them is Croatia. m by means we finance 90% of all public investment in Croatia at the annual level of 20 billion kuna. And we are aware that there are embezzlements in this, we are aware that there are problems and there are already four levels of responsibility already mentioned. However, the tendency of individuals to embezzle sometimes does not make Croatia exclusive. Of the 27 EU member states 22 have organised and established the European Public Prosecutor's Office, 22. Among them is Croatia. So these 22 countries have said in addition to national legislation, besides the European Commission, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will also be established to further check what this is about and how it is done. And these days you can, you can, on the pages of the European Public Prosecutor, are data on how many countries through embezzlement, evasion, illegality have damaged the European budget, among the 22 democratic states in the world, and the EU makes Croatia among the 7 best. Not according to the number of inhabitants, but in the per capital by secret or illegality per capita amongst the seven best. Much better than one Germany, much better than one Italy, than one Portugal, Spain, etc. So we are aware that there are gaps and that is why we are doing everything we can to get you out of the way, and we will not because of these gaps where only 0.4% of the funds spent in Croatia are this way from Croatia. to make a state case when it comes to the use of European funds. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99736	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99737	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I raised this replica first of all because I saw you there for a long, long, very nervous walk. I don't think you're nervous about this initiative, I'm sure you don't. However, I do wonder what it is that bothers you so much. Here's counterpart Habiban assured us earlier that he trusted the Croatian institutions, but your prime minister and your President Plenkovic repeatedly reiterated that he did not trust the findings, that he did not trust the DORH on the Mark Square shootings, that he did not trust the police several times at the press, not the DORH, nor the secret police, he did not trust anyone, nor the police, nor when they arrested and the same DORH, he did not trust anyone. However, you claim who you fear and what is actually happening, what is this conflict within the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99738	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99739	My colleague Matula, I wasn't nervous, but as a man and a representative, I am angry that people are calling me here in Croatia for this pay phone because they received EU funds. Why they came forward, they met the conditions, they had to spend them, they had to invest their resources. I don't mind when people are mentioned who are being processed, because the entire Croatian public is familiar with it. But it bothers me when people who have nothing to do with it, just because they're members of the HDZ or what you say are close colleagues here in this House because they're connected to the HDZ. By argument ad contrastio I could ask you if you were uncomfortable that at one point using the law you received an apartment worth 10,000 marks or 5000 euros and after 2,3 years you sold it for 300,000 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99740	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99741	.../Intruder Bačić: You have acted according to the law./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99742	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99743	.../Intruder Bačić: And was it moral for you to evaluate it yourself./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99744	Comrade Bacic, thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99745	.../Intruder Bačić: Yes is the same thing./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99746	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, Mr. Matula is a better actor than a politician, but your debate. I think we made it clear to the colleagues in the opposition...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99747	.../Intruder Reiner: Let's not from the bench please!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99748	...this little bit left, that there is nothing from that commission, that they have made one act that is contrary to the Law on Investigation Commissions and, of course, in this reasoned debate on our part, have killed everything that they have listed here as something that should be explored. But I'm asking you, I'm just reading the case in Zagreb right now. One firm responded to a tender that was announced, founded three weeks after the tender was announced to maintain the thresholds and tram lines. No reference, taken from a Chinese company means that he doesn't work here at all, but in China. J.d.o.o. means the underlying capital of 1500 kuna, the value of the transaction 6 and a half million kuna. Instead of exploring yourself, so I'm afraid for those trams and those tracks, who's gonna keep it apart from what they've cut, they're probably gonna question it now, and the trams are gonna have to drive every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99749	Thank you very much. A colleague, Glavasevic, was responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99750	This Regulation shall enter I really don't think we should call each other on the basis of a profession or a finished school. Is my colleague Boris less of a politician because he ended up in a classmate's name, for class class? Excuse me, yes. So I really don't think anyone should be called here because of what school finished or didn't finish, here's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99751	I agree with you, but I don't see anything hurt here. I won't even give you a warning, because I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, but I think that's what you said in good faith. A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99752	I thank my colleague, Boric. It would be good if in this process of speed that we can realise public competitions were the way it was chosen by the headmaster. Probably if they had left 10, 12, or a half-days to choose the headmasters they might not have given in such a great way, they would have made a decision to perform the works of a company that was founded three weeks after the competition was held. We can imagine that, then, those with that speed and that kind of treatment would be run by a state that must spend 11 billion euros in 7 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99753	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99754	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Bacic. We heard earlier here by the opposition that often they try to link EU funds, or project implementation, and sometimes fashion corrections with party membership of units of local self-government or cities or municipalities, etc. Really responsible I can say that as a unit leader for 13, 14 years I've never met a fellow I know trust me very much from different political options and independents etc. I've never heard from any of my colleagues that his project didn't go away because he's from that and that political option or so on. or that he had corrections because he didn't belong to this party or that party, etc. The ability to withdraw funds from EU projects depends entirely on something else, i.e. the ability of the unit, i.e. the management department, etc. So this is very dangerous for us from here to get out of this house to get through and talk about. Imagine now you people working...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99755	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Shaslin, numerous units of local self-government in Croatia whose leaders come from the ranks of opposition parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament who have shown excellent in the realisation of these projects as well as numerous HDZ and other mayors have shown and all those who properly, precisely prepare the documentation, meet their conditions, ensure their resources, know how to manage these projects best say that this system is a good use of European funds in Croatia and cannot throw 0.4% on it. As I said before, 30 million is suspicious, nine open investigations. We are talking here today about 9 confirmed investigations in Croatia due to abuse of EU funds in relation to 7 billion paid money, 0.4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99757	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99758	Comrade Bačić, first of all here you made us all aware that Croatia, i.e. you have said or learned I do not know what to say one news that Croatia is among the 7 countries with the least irregularity and illegality after withdrawing funds from the EU. So, according to you, Germany, as you said, the Tribal would learn from Croatia, France, I don't know what other countries Croatia would learn from. However, I believe that the European funds and all around the European funds that I am not a signator because I suppose the opposition thinks that I am not a good enough opposition, so to sign this proposal, but I believe that the European funds are essentially in the Republic of Croatia, there is a large number of unacceptable costs. You can see this very much, which is going to cost local self-government in both the country and the country, and we're going to get into a lot of trouble, and that's what I'm going to do in an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99759	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99760	When I mentioned those seven states to you, I can also read to you which seven of the most successful countries are Malta's most successful. The European Prosecutor in Malta has found no euro that has been embezzled. This came out a few days ago, so we didn't, and we're data, and you can, too, go to the European Public Prosecutor's pages, and you'll find the data. Germany, yes. Germany, which per capita is about 20 times bigger than Croatia, 40 times the population's head is more embezzlement in one Germany which we say is the state with a regulated administration, the treatment, the best judicial authority in the whole world, so that's where it happens, and I don't defend anyone, nor did my colleague Bulj tell me I'm going to sign any criminal application to any HDZ man when someone argues and tells me, but I'm not about to generally impose either on the system of European funds, nor on people they ate from some parties if they got their credit and knowledge of certain money for... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99761	Thank you, thank you very much. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99762	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have stated in your debate a lot of things that have been denied us, that we are not here, etc., so I should say that you are being denied, deny the data that the two EU funds ministers had to leave because of the affair, then deny you the fact that the state's attorney put in a drawer this affair software, that the state's attorney was telling false or rather lying in this HS and that most of the lie voted and supported it. It is also a fact that there was no state prosecutor's office that affair would remain in the drawer. You're saying we're very good at withdrawing EU funds, that we're correct that, that it's all right, by the way. My question is very simple, why don't you allow a parliamentary commission to affirm it because you're going to be 8 and in opposition is 7? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99763	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99764	Dear colleagues, Raukar Gamulin, what you are saying to me now, we are not allowed to do so in accordance with Article. 4. The law of... The investigation committee, precisely in the case of the former minister and former director of SAFU, must not be allowed in any way because it is open, it is open, the investigation has been confirmed, and at the time that we are here on the public scene we are discussing, above all, not allowing them the best defense guaranteed according to the constitution because we are opening a process which is in court, and on the other hand we are obstructing the investigation of those who are founded in this country and it is their exclusive job, not us as a representative, which we do not have to be, which we do not have to be investigators. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, I'll tell you that, too, I'm judging if it's Mrs. McNally's case. The Minister and Mr. Director have committed a criminal offence. Because of the principle of presummation of innocence, I don't want to press charges in advance, you don't listen to me well, but it doesn't matter, so I don't want to press charges in advance... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99765	Thank you very much, even though the time is up, and your colleague won't listen to you either. Dear Representative Kekin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99766	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague, Bačić, I'm interested in how you comment on the fact that in Dubrovnik-Neretva County HDZ council members voted on the false financial plan of the County Road Administration, I say falsely because 63% of this plan is precisely European means for the reconstruction of the Korčula-Račisje road. The plan was voted in 12 months 2021, and I am now interested in your mayor now that he has been caught in falsifying documents, claims that he will receive the money and that he has been promised that he has repeatedly repeated it in the media. Now I'm wondering if you might know, since you're with Korčula, that's your career project, who promised him that money because the department responsible for which we sent the official memo said that the money is unfortunately gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99767	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99768	Dear colleague Kekin, I don't know if it'll be enough for a minute, and I'm glad and thank you for that. First of all, you know what the budget is, that what you propose in the budget or in the programme doesn't have to happen and.../Laughter/... so you never made a budget, Mrs. Kekin, do you think everything we've brought to the state budget is going to come true? As far as this particular project is concerned, this project, respected counterpart Kekin, had a financing decision. Based on a public call, based on a power of attorney's permission, in the meantime, your colleagues from Korčula complained about a building permit, it was annulled and the moment the funding contract was cancelled had to be terminated. In the meantime, the same permit has been confirmed and a public call has been completed, a contract with the performer cannot be signed until a co-financing contract is re-signed and there is a ketch in it, do you understand that? Unfortunately, if you don't understand, I'm sorry, but business is as clean as tears.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99769	Honorable representative, respected representative Bencic, colleague Bačić, please, the respected representative Bencic has committed an injury to the Rules of Procedure, in what has been injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99770	... The funds and the contract were broken 5 months ago and there is no contest at that time to report on it, however, the ministry tells you that there is no more funds. [[Last-on speaker]] [[Clip intrusion: No]] So they were deceived because they were told that the contract was signed, and it was broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99771	Well, my fellow Bencic, I'm surprised that you as a lawyer can appeal to the article and then you completely miss out on the whole story and of course you get a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99772	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, unfortunately very often in this high house, we can hear the institutions being certified without talking about individuals, even those against whom they have neither been initiated, nor any criminal proceedings being conducted. I think it's bad and inappropriate for this institution. Many honest people have withdrawn funds through the EU, when they listen to this, but I will return to the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which is today, but also in the recent debate many have blacked out, noting that it has been since the founding of 2016. By September last year 10.3 billion kuna came to Slavonia. Here, when we add the second part of the development agreement, there's another 10 billion kuna. These are all projects that have been given to people where they certainly did not look at which political option they belong, there are also those HDZ and SDP, of course what is wrong, none of us today support, and you and I know how the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem project came about. We Slavons are not happy that we stayed undeveloped.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99773	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99774	I'd like to thank my colleagues Maximchuk. You asked the question and you answered, so I'm gonna use these seconds to say something else. You know very well that once-in-a-lifetime advocates have made the budget, that the budget is the plan. And to plan at the beginning of the year, some projects to realize that for various reasons you can't. That is why there are changes and additions to the budgets which, in the beginning, meant that you would realize yourself simply for objective, sometimes subjective reasons could not be realized. It's the same in this case as it used to be. The procedure was carried out, the building permit was completed, the funds secured, the moment the appeal was filed and the administrative court annulled the permit at that time needed the contract you had on financing, to be terminated. And it's now that the license has been renewed, the selected contractor cannot be signed by a contract until the financing contract is re-signed. And that's the answer to the gentlemen from WE CAN...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99775	Thank you, dear representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I just need one little clarification regarding your discussion. You mentioned a brief study, and you said that according to this research, we are quotes: the best in irregularities, in stealing... So I'm just wondering if it's a research that says we're the most successful in irregularities and thefts or if it's a research that says something else. Just to explain it to me because you mentioned it at such speed, so I failed to do this well, although you can quote which report that I can read, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99777	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Glavasevic. That's not research. These are the documents of the European Public Prosecutor whose office was established in Zagreb and which keeps records of each country in which the European Public Prosecutor has his own office. There are data from that office, reports of irregularities, open investigations and confirmed investigations and indictments. And he is these days, I invite you to go to the website, the website of the European Prosecutor, and you will see that Croatia is the most successful in terms of at least 7 countries with the least number of irregularities identified in the use of European funds. I think I've made myself clear now, and here I can, and I have that information and that page, so you can take over now as soon as this replica of mine is finished, well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99779	Thank you very much, now he will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99780	This is the whole time I've been hearing about this proposal from the Commission on illegal, illegal EU projects. I can only say when I became mayor, several projects have been implemented and will cause great damage to the city of Sinju for poor project management and, of course, poor control from SAFU. I wouldn't have, I'm extremely proud that the project was launched and started a few days ago. Agglomeration of Sinj, half a billion kuna, which will protect the Cetina River, from which now 500 thousand people drink water, because directly through the centre of Sinj went through a channel, this one, a sewerage through the blue field directly into Cetina. That's the most important thing to me. However, unacceptable costs, I could talk about this one project, but here I will say crucially that I have learned a lot from this session, mainly from colleagues Bačić, that both Germany and Austria and other EU countries should learn from Croatia how we behave well. However, the fact is to my colleague Bačić that it is not such an impression of people, not an impression, but simply when we look at everything that has happened, so that the commission can tell your colleagues what they have suggested, the committee of the eyes, can be suggested, just so that it is not under that Churchill if you don't think about solving the problem, set up a commission, so that the problem can be solved. I think institutions must do their job. On this point, rather than being double standards, that Milorad Pupovac is moving Milosevic, we shouldn't, we shouldn't, because he's dealing to the SDSS's money, and you from HDZ are standing up and silent and watching, regardless, even yours are arresting. But you can't have Milorad Pupovec and his pulens. There's a problem. And that's what the citizens see. It's a terrible message, so the SDSS don't dare to be detained by order of Milorad Pupovac, whom, as club president, may also be referred to by colleagues Bacic with a written proposal, and that is a statement that must not be tolerated. And that's the problem. Distrust in the judiciary is also the worst thing about European projects and other projects, because we know everything that has happened and why commissions have been set up here in the Parliament. We can mention Agrokor we can mention some other problems. INA, therefore, in us the whole system is dependent on these decisions that have the judicial authorities, however, mistrust leads to economic instability. So unfortunately use the war at the moment when we have the minister detained, use that moment to point out as the leader of the struggle in the case means war Russia Ukraine, of course we try to engage, help our refugees, Ukrainians, help but be the leader of this fight and throw a target at the Croatian people no one has the right. He can take the gun, go to Kiev and fight. But to throw a target and brag that we will be the main ones to arm, and we are too small, so that we can help every man, be human but no one has the right to throw a target, and just at this point all of these irregularities are actually transferred to this problem, and the key problem is what happened before the war itself. Before the war itself in Ukraine. I would once again say that, I will be brief, that here as an opposition representative, from recently and mayor and head of the unit of local self-government, I know that European funds have been used incorrectly, I know that they have been politically allocated, I know that many irregularities have been caused by huge damages and unacceptable costs, I know that they have been co-operation and entrepreneurs and those in the control mechanism and those who have essentially had to control it and are not huge costs. I can only tell you about a beautiful project called Sinj in srid that we have unacceptable costs already 11 million in the financial period, and because of the implementation I will have a lot more, they all knew it in SAFU and the gentleman who was president of SAFU or what he was, the director who was now detained, they all knew, it was all a game and there was a problem. We must work to have as little unacceptable costs as possible, not just to give unacceptable costs to units of local self-government to people who are not from their political options. So that playfulness is not good at harming the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through control mechanisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99781	Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I start the debate with my colleagues, you know how you said it was a little bit of us, now we're out here somewhere, and now there's a little co-worker and co-worker on your side of the assembly. What do we do now? How popular it is these days. The first step to solving any problem is to admit that the problem exists. Your problem with your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ is that your party has a problem with thieving. That probably sounds rough to you, but unfortunately it's true. I mean, it's not just your problem, but your nat is, on average, a significant nat more than the problem of other political parties in Croatia. From your discussions, it is clear how much you fear the discovery and confirmation of that truth. I can understand your frustration, you have to defend every little bit indefensibly, every few days they come out practically new cases of painful public and clear thieving of your party colleagues and colleagues. You feel like you're under siege. You question reality, you wonder if it's possible to steal that much and yours all the time. Where are the affairs from others? Then you hunt for straws, try to put a sign of equality between what equality does not exist because in your party, the problem is systemically. And because you feel like you're under siege, you're doing exactly the opposite of what would really get you out of trouble. Instead of clearly distinguishing criminal, moral, and political responsibility, you are constantly trying to erase borders between them. It's just that you and your colleagues and your colleagues get into a deeper problem because it turns out that the problem or it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, or if it becomes white that the problem exists, then it's not that it's for the prison, it's for the guillotine. That's what you do. Instead of dealing with the weeds in your own ranks and thus showing that you're not all the same, you're protecting such depraved men and you're opposed to every attempt to get rid of the shovels. I don't know, I guess the first ones should be in your best interest to get rid of them. The saddest thing is that when the mechanisms of parliamentary control and the determination of political responsibility try to delegate and degrade, and your party in another, more honest time for these mechanisms has voted and incorporated them into our laws. In other words, your problem with thieving and obsessing mentality has led you to have a problem with democracy and democratic security because the investigative commission is one such mechanism. If you really believed that there was no crime and that everything was as clean as you were trying to convince each other here first, and then the rest of us, you would very confidently support both this and every other investigative committee in which you would be told, you would have a majority anyway, because you would know that everything is clean and that you would be able to demonstrate it in the process itself. But the real reason why you are against the commission lies in a very simple truth and that truth is clear and visible to all of Croatia, and the truth is this, none of you, but none of you colleagues and colleagues would have put their hands on fire if your party colleagues hadn't stolen the money, and therefore there's a very good reason not. The first step to solving the problem is to admit that you have a problem with colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99783	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99784	Thank you. In November of last year, EU Regional Development and Fund Minister Gabriela Žalac, as well as SAFU Director of the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency Tomislav Petric, was arrested. They were arrested on the orders of the European prosecutor, and not on our great shame under the order of the D.O.R.H. and our chief state prosecutor, however, we witnessed the disgrace of the state prosecutor in this assembly when she was not trying to hide the fact that D.R.H.D.H. and she personally knew and prepared the software case in the drawer and that there was no European prosecutor's office he would have stayed in that drawer forever. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has done so in just five months of its existence, the failure of the DORH in USKOK for two years. We must not forget that the software affair was first exposed by journalist Andrej Dimitrijevic back in 2019. The very fact that the arrest of the SAFU Minister and Director-in-Office of the most responsible people for the Euro Funds system in an orderly society would be sufficient for Parliament to vote by consensus on the establishment of an investigative commission, which would be a minimum of elemental democratic competence, but moreover, it would be an imperative responsibility towards citizens and citizens from whose tax duties the entire state apparatus is financed. Millions were blacked out, as many as tens of millions of kunas, only in that one case, and there are others. It is devastating that it was led by the minister herself, perhaps even worse, that it was actively attended by the director of the SAFU institution, whose main task is to repeat it, to control every procurement contract and to stop the signing of suspicious contracts. Preica brought former regional development minister and EU funds Tolusic to SAFU, who also had to leave the government because of the affair. It's interesting even if two eu funds ministers had to leave the government, but the fact itself says there's lots, lots, lots of smoke, and the people say where there's smoke and fire. After a final ruling on corruption to the ruling HDZ party, we keep hearing that it is the former HDZ, that today it is the new HDZ that has zero tolerance to corruption. In short, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, if you really want to show and prove that this is indeed the way to vote, then let's put together an investigative commission on possible irregularities, illegal actions, corruption in the Eu Funds system and, most importantly, on the possible political responsibility of individual officials. With your barbaric resistance, you only deepen your suspicions and confirm the need not only to set up a parliamentary investigative committee and many but also much more active and more effective DORH and USKOK, or rather the European Prosecutor's Office, which replaces the lack of and insufficient activities of the DORH and USKOK, which is justified in doubting that it is under significant political influence of the ruling. According to all the studies, the first reason that the population of Croatia and mass going abroad is the most qualitative part of our young generations is corruption and nepotism, that is the fact. Avoiding the creation of an investigative commission on the visible problem is also a sign of those few who have remained to finally pack things and leave the country where they are ruling such heart products and defending corrupt activities. These are the gentlemen and ladies of the ruling party the direct consequences of your refusal to face any of your responsibility for covering or participating in corrupt actions. And if you really refuse to set up this important parliamentary commission, you will be the ones to show and prove that there is no new HDZ with zero tolerance to corruption, you will be the ones to show and prove that there is only one HDZ, a party legally convicted of corruption, a party who, even after that verdict, persistently and thoroughly defends its corruption and does not show the slightest intensity to change that bang. The decision is entirely up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99785	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representatives Bencic and RADolovic will speak. First respected representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99786	I thank the chairman. So, like any parliamentary initiative for the investigative commission, this initiative is being rejected by the HDZ. However, as in previous cases, we have again heard the thesis of here very dangerous thesis, which is that the investigative committees want to act as a prosecution, that they want to be a court, that they want to deal with the issue of criminal responsibility, etc., although it is clear to everyone other than HDZ, that investigative committees exist, as my colleague said, to determine the political responsibility of actors who did not necessarily participate in any criminal act, not at all, but they had the duty to know or knew, and they did nothing. So, when we are looking for information here and that is one of the key reasons why we want this commission to be established is whether Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic knew when he re-named Petrica 2020 at the head of the SAFU that he was the one who blessed public procurement and the contract that proved to be a staged competition and which is why Minister Žalac is ultimately under investigation, then what we ask is whether he is not responsible because that investigation will be extended to him. What we're interested in is whether the Prime Minister who had this information should have done something, not named that person again at the head of the SAFU and taken any further steps to see if it was some kind of wider network of people, whether there were other people from those positions, etc., so we're asking that because his political responsibility is ultimately, in particular because he appointed that person. When we talk about political responsibility, and you keep saying that criminal responsibility has its own name and last name, we're talking about having too many of those names and last names, there are too many in this part of the assembly that have left these places as elected deputies because there are criminal investigations open on some and confirmed charges. There are three of them in the government right now, so three active officials, while active government officials in charge of them are open investigations. Yes, corruption has its name and last name, but always behind that score is always the same political party. Yeah, you'll say there's one in others but let's be, I mean real, so that's clear to you too. On 100 of yours comes one of someone else's. When a colleague named Grbin today said we don't have enough time, we really don't have enough time here to count all HDZ affairs involving either members or officials or godfathers, aunts and uncles of HDZ officials. So we can't talk about the incidents, that's what I'm always saying. If those were incidents, the good incidents here happened here, it happened. But we are talking about the systemic problem that you have within your party and this system problem has now begun to return to you as a boomerang, because not only have you been in continuity since 2016 of the government and that the DORH and USKOK are replacing ministers but we are coming to a situation where your own ministers are addressing the media because of the threats and pressures they allegedly have because they have not assigned a job to someone they needed instead of your prime minister and the party president. Finally, all those involved in party life are clear that there is no party in which there is any mutual trust where the competent official would not inform his superior first of the situation but would address the media. Today, it's not our word, today the prime minister said I had no idea, it's bizarre to me. I talked to her, I don't know what she's talking about. That's what your prime minister said about his minister whom he chose. He doesn't have to choose ministers in a public tender, he chooses them from the party when he can. But apparently there's not enough left in the party, so it also reaches for solutions like Mr. Paladin. So we want to point out that we've been in a situation multiple times that we've been denied an investigative commission that was then able to prevent certain things that then came and caught you as a consequence, not us. If we had an investigative commission on whether there are political pressures on the DORH and if the DORH within its capabilities could carry out truly the duties of investigating political corruption, including corruption on EU funds, then perhaps, perhaps, the DORH would feel more encouraged, so that it might draw an investigation into the case of the Khalac and Petric, so that the investigation would not end up at the EPPU. When you say there are only a few open procedures in the EPSU. Well, they just started working, they just started working. Literally recently, less than a year ago, the office was founded and teamed up and it hasn't been a year and people are looking for team reinforcements, because they see the number of cases they're going to have to deal with. And you're saying we're good at it? No, that's not what we're good at. Does SAFU have a large number of irregularities that he discovers himself before he gets to ARPA? Absolutely, absolutely. SAFU boasts at EU level among colleagues that they have the highest number of adjustments of all and have. And why do they have it? Because someone's a cop, someone's a godfather. Because the corrections are made, here's an example. They get you a correction from people who, in public procurement, wrote that a consultant was wanted, asked that the advisor they took had three years of experience in working with EU funds and that was the requirement of registration. So, they were cut off by SAFU, because that's a discriminatory condition why would they put that it must have a three-year experience can and someone without. That's where people got the correction. Do you know where else people were being corrected? Here's when you say in one I won't tell the details that people don't put here in... In one of our cities, in its historically protected core, work was sought to reconstruct one part of the historical core. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People have asked that all those who sign up have to come and see if their machines can even get through that part of town, to see if they can work there. They were corrected because that was also a discriminatory condition which was discriminatory to some companies possible from abroad, was a logical condition, was a completely logical condition. This is the level of rigour used by SAFU and O.K. We can say they set themselves some standards, but then we see that there are no standards in relation to competitions carried out by a senior HDZ minister. And not only that, why we wanted an investigative commission among other things and to see if there were officials, if there were any officials who might say in which cases they were experiencing pressures not to make corrections, because someone stood up for their community and because they did it through a political relationship. And just to illustrate to the citizens what that means. When a small municipality that has 2 million kuna budgets gets an EU fund infrastructure project, it gets a project that is five times larger than its budget. You don't actually have work under 10 million kuna. When that municipality gets a 25% correction, it's got a correction that's bigger than the amount of its annual budget. How we're going to share the time is up to us, isn't that right to you? So that is, the municipality is financially destroyed and, of course, the corrections become a powerful political instrument affecting the success or failure of certain city municipal administrations in the use of EU funds because that you might give a person 25% correction and thus completely destroy it, and you won't give it to someone 100% when they deserve 100% and then HDZ municipalities will be successful in using EU funds. That's what we're talking about and this is what this investigation committee was supposed to talk about, and that's why it's quite clear that you're going to reject it because then it would be seen that Minister Žalac or Mr. Petric is not the top but rather the pin on the top of the ice santa because the network that's standing underneath it, which imports the HDZ were political, political associates, members and godfathers, of course there's always some godfathers, a lot wider and it's a lot bigger money. In order for some people to tell you that if they had had the opportunity to testify before an investigative committee, unfortunately, they would not have had such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99787	A respected representative, Radolovic, will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99788	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, we absolutely agree with everything that my colleague Bencic listed. You are angry with us here today because we have made the names and last names of publicly available data. You are angry about what we stated about the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, and how your party colleagues were getting the money. We didn't invent that information, nor did we read it only in media writings. Once again, what you did to your colleague Vlasic Iljkić in replicas, it was really inappropriate, I would dare even say in a way that is sexist in certain parts, but it is not important for you to do the honors. But to move on, you also said in your presentations that what we're looking for, that we actually have records from committees that are being held to monitor operational programs, protocols from coordination. We have shown you in this explanation of the launch of the Commission's work exactly that as an counterargument where GONG himself said and warned of the fact that the Committees for Monitoring Operational Programmes, the very coordination that oversees spending of funds do not have regular sessions, nor are the records from the same are available on the websites. We also have to say that it is a low level of media interest because the media does not have complete information for regular procedures to monitor the distribution of funds from EU funds and, of course, it rests on investigative journalism, and then you are angry when researchers are doing their jobs and when they publish the names and last names of members we can say closely to you. I will remind you once again why we are initiating this investigative commission, so there is no goal of pointing the finger at you sitting here, but we want clear answers, we want clear answers to whether anyone has affected politically, were they officials, political bodies available from EU funds? We also want to find out what weaknesses are in the legal institutional framework for the control of the withdrawal procedures, and we want to see how capable and capacitative the personnel of the control and independent bodies are, as we want to see and what quality and legality of supervision of the system for the availability of funds from the EU. We also want to identify key obstacles and risks to the effective, timely, transparent availability of EU funds, and also what we have said here several times today, in what way has actually been cadrevirated throughout this institutional framework. You have taught us lessons here about the levels of control of systems, implementation and control in the use of EU funds, all of which we know, but from all the affairs, from the affair software, from the affair related to the Aglomeration Project in Croatian Waters, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and the latest conference of Omega software where Minister Tramišak herself says that she has received alleged threats and where we will certainly deal with the next days by how the system has been abolished, after the award of the updates of the e-funds system through Omega software has been awarded to FINA by direct contract where the school colleague or college colleague of Minister Tramišak is sitting and we have the information that it was then FINA forwarded by GAUS which is closely connected with Mayor Anusic and Minister Tramišak at the time of work in the Municipality of Antunovac. I mean, you can't call us for it, and you can't point your finger at us because it's facts and relevant data and we don't perform unargumented unlike you. What we also want the investigative committee to examine, and I repeat, we did not propose that the investigation committee be composed solely of opposition representatives, but we suggested a ratio of strength of 8.7. Please, colleague Reiner, or the esteemed Vice President Reiner, warn your colleagues in this manner not to enter the word, and you have warned me before and given me a warning because I am in the word, so I think it would be correct and to warn the other side of the pay phone. We also want to see if the institutions knew about the crime because we saw in the software affair that both DORH and USKOK were there to say they covered their eyes over the affair itself and that there was no establishment of a new prosecutor there would be no such affair, neither would the public know, nor, in fact, that if we had agreed a job worth 2.9 million kuna, that a contract for 16 million kuna and a series of shortcomings had been established, and we will see how many people were involved in all this affair because I repeat very suspiciously and amazingly that within the SAFU itself, the director had his fingers in a jam because of the results of ex post controls in them involved 10 to 15 people. We would also like to determine how much supervision has been carried out for malfeasances with EU funds, which are institutions, and what the results of investigations as well as what measures are needed to introduce stronger, independent control of the availability of EU funds. We do not want to replace or interfere with relevant institutions, but we want to be proactive and we want to put an end to it. In fact, we are also doing you a favor to have a minister arrested every day, more or less recently, for malfeasance with EU labour and funds. I also think to your prime minister who wants to go to Brussels tomorrow that brings us damage to our reputation, an image so that on the one hand you'd have to be grateful. We would also like to determine what interinstitutional cooperation between competent institutions is related to the effectiveness, timelyness and supervision of the implementation of EU funds. It's pretty vague for users themselves, you can see it from a regulation where some ministries act at the same time, they have the role of managing bodies, so they're low level 1 intermediate bodies, so we have a series of agencies that are the intermediate level of two bodies, and at the same time they act as control bodies. We consider all this to be an obstacle to one effective management of this entire EU fund and procedure system, and we want to facilitate all these administrative obstacles that users find, and all to make the system effective and transparent today. So don't be mad at us, we might be angry about asking a series of parliamentary questions to Minister Tramišak. I've personally asked a dozen questions about various calls, about the fact that we're late for operational programs. I did not get any feedback from why we, for example, used for the energy recovery of family homes from the state budget. Why did that go according to the state finger model? Now I've asked the question I'm curious about what kind of answer I'm going to get with petrino entrepreneurs where they repeat the same things again, they're going back to the models of the fastest finger, and you're just still pointing your finger at the opposition. Today what you have done in your replicas, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are truly beyond common sense. We beat you with argument, we beat you with official documents, and you just try to beat us with empty flossules which, unfortunately, doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99789	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bačić. ... No, it's on a colleague named Bencic. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Benčić, here, and this can be addressed to my colleague Radolović, I was convinced by this latest presentation that you are the author or co-author of this document and you and Mrs Radolović, so that part of it may be referred to the replica. But from what you've been saying and what it says here is very different. The aim of this committee is to make a proposal for measures with recommendations and conclusions to improve the use of EU funds, not as you say, or former counterpart Radolovic, determining criminal responsibility and you say political responsibilities. You, unlike her, have a different narrative. So, the purpose of this committee was to examine in a broad investigation how all state bodies in Croatia are acting using EU funds...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99791	.... /Intruder Reiner: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99792	...and by proposing measures to speed it up. So, no political responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99793	Thank you. Representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99794	Thank you. To see Mr Bačić, through the determination of whether there were elements of political pressures on SAFU employees, whether there were elements of political responsibility among top officials in creating these pressures or that they knew about these pressures and how, in what ways, MPs could come to the conclusion on how to prevent it in the future. So you don't go first with the conclusion, and then with an analysis of how you usually do it because that's what we have here, we usually have an action plan before it's a strategy and so on. So no, first you analyze what was wrong, then you suggest conclusions and that was our goal. Our goal was to prevent, among other things, the billions of kunas we have in the next period from being spent through these models that we are talking about today or the models of the fastest finger......
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99795	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99796	...which will once again allow us to guess those who have the fastest fingers but we know in what sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99797	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99798	Thank you very much. Article 238, which I constantly hold to be an expert on EU funds but cannot listen to about these adjustments, so auditors from Brussels when they come... They take a sample of the correction, give independent auditors in Brussels to assess them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If a sample of 100 corrections finds 5 differences where the auditors from Brussels have assessed different from SAFU, payment shall be suspended. They learned that in Romania and Bulgaria, so this doesn't work for your uncles and grandmothers. There are auditors from Brussels who do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99799	Thank you. It was a replica. It's your third warning, so I'm taking your word for it to the end of this point. And now it will be a replica of the presentation of respected counterpart Radolovic, the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99800	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Radolović, when you mentioned sexism as a woman, I paid particular attention to how you wanted to get into the protection and inappropriate behaviour of all our colleagues towards colleague Martina Vlasic Iljkić. I have not noticed that you have treated our colleague Maria Jelkovac so correctly, you have expressed very uglyly what I think is inappropriate for this assembly, not for any woman. However, what I still want to say to you is that we express dissatisfaction with the names of our party colleagues you spoke of here. And here's what this proposal said was that one person's name is related to one of our senior officials, and I'm not going to say the name, just so you know, for example. This person has an OPG operating since 2003, a regular user of the measures is designed to secure crops and together with 10,000 users, and you drag it around. He's one of 10,000 users, no irregularities have been identified. There are probably more members and HDZ, as well as the SDP. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99801	Thank you. Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99802	That you won't call me pitbull, but I have to say if you listened well to my statements, that I... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99803	Please, colleagues, not from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99804	I'm not the first thing to refer to, I didn't say in my presentations any of the names, and there were quite a few, and you can check it in the records except Mrs. Žalac, except Mrs. Tramišak, who were highly exposed as current and former minister, and I haven't read any of the names we had prepared for the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and there were 50 of them, none of them came out of my mouth. On the other hand, I listened carefully to my colleague Jelkovac in which she replied to my colleague Vlasic Iljkic and I will not apologize to her for that. I would never have dared tell her that if I hadn't seen how she demeaned her colleague and started attacking her, so everyone here should be careful what she says and not get that reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u99805	So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue the session tomorrow 25.3 at 9.30 p.m. as announced this morning by the Declaration of Amendments. Have a nice evening or the rest of the evening. The session was interrupted at 8:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83140	Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, and then, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, she'll speak to the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83141	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm getting a little boring myself by warning myself of some things, but I think it's very important to highlight the problems we face and potential problems in agriculture and food supply. We're all talking about gas, we're all talking about energy, but very few people talk about food, stories about production, primarily grains, then olives, and consequently food supplies. The war in Ukraine has changed a lot, but regardless our agricultural policy has remained consistent in being extremely harmful to our farmers. We also brought a strategy for the development of agriculture relatively recently, we waited for her brother for 8 years, at least I, here's from the first announcement to the realization, and then we got something that didn't really differentiate us, didn't direct us and didn't put agriculture on that level that she should be at. My colleagues and colleagues, we enjoy a very nice time, but the time before, and this time is now very dry, there is no rainfall which is extremely devastating for agricultural production. Until recently, we've had very large oscillations in the daily temperature, it's now applied, but if this dry period continues, it's certainly not good for our production. There are so few rainfalls that some wells in Slavonia are, say, close to drying some have even dried up. So, if we're talking about the watermelon of the country, enough rainfall for agricultural production it is unfortunately far from good. It can change, but it doesn't have to, if it doesn't change, then we have a big problem. Repromaterial in agriculture has also increased significantly, even last year unrelated to this war, and now the war in Ukraine could further increase the price. Since Petrochemy our mineral fertiliser manufacturer depends on gas, gas mainly comes from Russia, gas prices have jumped, so the resulting increase in fertiliser prices will be even higher, and I will remind you that last year only the prices of fertilisers, mineral ones, have doubled in the least, and some repromation has increased several times. In such a situation, our farmers, if they decided to process the land, then used less fertilisers to try to cut their costs or imputations. So what do we have now? We have a war in Ukraine, we have agricultural production that is safe in Ukraine for this year, we can forget it because it is definitely not a population priority right now, you have Russia to which we have imposed sanctions, so from Russia grains and olives we cannot introduce, on the other hand we have a dry period, we have reduced manure, we have recently had great oscillations at a temperature which from this perspective now says we can't expect a great harvest. I ask again, rhetorically now that I ask the Ministry assures me that we have more than enough and that there are potential markets from which we can introduce, if this harvest really fails or if it fails how we will be supplied, where, because they are not only agrimeteorological opportunities in Croatia, they are bad in Europe. They assure me that we can bring in anything we need from Europe. We can't have colleagues and colleagues. Our stock reserves are obviously not up to this challenge, and only recently did the government decide to invest another 600 million kuna in addition to our stock reserves. But if you have no one to buy grains and cereals from, you can't produce kunas, you can't even eat euro. And that's why I think this is the topic on which we should now be an extremely focused team more because of all the opportunities I've given. In the case of our ministry which is very reactive, slow, ineffective now threatens and punishes us because the European Commission will punish the Ministry of Agriculture or farmers will remain without 30m euros of direct incentives, which is 10% of direct incentives. And when I was on this phone, and not just me, but I warned us a lot that direct incentives weren't being used the way they should be, then we were on the side of the ruling laughs, the minister said in a way that we had no idea, and here's the result. I'm a little tired of being a bad prophet here all the time, but this is the kind of thing we need to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83361	Now we're going to stop by this point a little bit because it's been an hour, so we're going to take a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives' clubs, and first, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative, Nino Rasudiæ, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83362	My colleagues and colleagues. The public debate, which has been going on and on for weeks now and again, on whether to defrost compulsory military service in Croatia or not, in most cases leads in the wrong way, and those who argue for and against it seem to me to be the wrong reasons. It is not about whether most of today's young people, especially young men, are lazy, threatened, incompetent, spoiled, and now from some disappointed parenting perspective, are said to have to serve the army to learn life because it is not mandatory for military service to replace family education and the school system of the thread is about whether we are for peace or not. It is only that in the circumstances in which we are today what our defence readiness is and whether defrosting compulsory military service on this matter could make things better. At the beginning of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, we became aware that with the current number of professional soldiers and questionable organisation of reserves and handbooks in the event of a more serious threat we would not be able to defend our own country. We learned then that we do not only have a problem with the number and organisation of people but also a catastrophic lack of technique and coordination with NATO partners. Now the general public knows that for 15 years our sky has remained unguarded at night because we don't have pilots trained to fly in the dark because it decided to save on it, and we know that a MiG-21-sized aircraft that beats the media to be a drone, and most of the public paints drones what it shoots in weddings, so it's a MiG-sized aircraft, that something like that can fly over NATO members before entering Croatia, and that no one reacts, including the NATO Torrejon Operational Centre in Spain. Everyone sleeps, only later NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg said the aircraft fell outside Zagreb. And nothing to anyone. No one here to inform him that he said stupid things and that he needed to apologize and bring out real information to the citizens of NATO member states that the six-ton aircraft had fallen to the middle of the capital of one of those states. In this situation, a fundamental question arises, is the current Law on Defence which regulates the duties and rights of citizens in defence adequate given the circumstances in the world and the closer environment of Croatia? Is the current way of regulating the military obligation appropriate and how applicable in the light of very rapid geostrategic changes in the first place? Art. Thirty-two. The defense law regulates military service in the event of direct endangerment. But are we now in a state of direct danger? What we've all been bombed by war in Ukraine, nothing else matters. Is this already a state of immediate threat, or is it in view of the prime minister's quick decisions so far, we have to wait until we get to the real war, and then we'll think about it? In the event of a wartime situation, the youngest citizen who had been on mandatory military service would be 35 years old while the number of voluntary handbooks serving military service for the last 15 years would be insufficient to defend the country. If we consider the number of young people driven out of the country, that number is even smaller. We believe it is time to make changes to the Law on Defence and other laws in order to have better regulated rights and obligations for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in defence. Now, if this is the introduction of a military deadline or better stimulating and rewarding voluntary handbooks, it's a matter of deeper and more detailed analysis, but that analysis needs to be done immediately. There are several ways to improve, change the military deadline as regulated now or by strengthening the voluntary reserve that needs to be further stimulated, and this is possible in different ways. Money-stimulating handbooks, exempting employers from paying taxes for persons who have served a military deadline, advantages in employment in state institutions, etc. Any decision on how it is in life already has advantages and disadvantages. The benefits of military service are that the state knows at all times the number of people who have served military service while the number of people who will serve in the calendar year is unknown and insecure. Activate mandatory service of the military arm per Article. Thirty-two. The law on defence in the event of a direct threat to war is too late and ineffective, after all, and inconclusive. At present, we are paying a voluntary handbook of about 3,500 kuna, and a professional soldier on the 8500 kuna contract monthly using professional soldiers to clean military and various duty by ports and store facilities for which they are too expensive and hand soldiers half as cheap. In short, it's about time we seriously analyzed the needs of the defense and stopped picking up on this issue, and we're starting to do some serious work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83363	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83447	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Since 1997, in the Republic of Croatia, the first Saturday of spring marked Narcissus Day is intended to strengthen awareness of the prevention and early detection of breast cancer. On that day, narcissists are sold, and the funds collected are intended for prevention and early detection of breast cancer. This year's Narcissus Day is this Saturday, so two days from now. Compared to other EU countries, Croatia is second to the mortality of malignant diseases. After heart and blood vessels disease, cancer is the second cause of death in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 25,352 newly diagnosed patients, and 13,344 deceased, according to HZZZ Cancer Register data. The same year 2,999 breast cancer cases were reported in Croatia, and 722 women died in 2020. In the case of persons under 65. cancer is the most common cause of death in the Republic of Croatia, and more than 40% of those who died from this disease are at that age. The most common types of cancer in men are lung and prostate cancer, and women have breast cancer and then colon cancer. Breast cancer is the third malignant cause of death after lung and colon cancer. Recently in the assembly, we declared the National Day of Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia to mark the first week of June. Every day we mark a particular disease is important for raising the awareness of our citizens or society as a whole. Prevention, early diagnosis, response to preventive checks, modern treatment, imperatives are in order to significantly reduce these public health problems. Although the Croatian National Strategic Framework against Cancer was finally adopted in 2020 to 2030. At the meeting of 15 December 2020, the strategic objectives are yet to be implemented insufficiently or the framework has not been implemented. What are the possible causes of an unfavourable oncology outcome in the Republic of Croatia? High exposure to adverse effects, primarily smoking, excessive body weight, or thickness, lack of quality primary prevention programs, insufficient health awareness of citizens, insufficient early cancer detection programmes, excessive diagnosis, poor availability of quality oncology care, lack of radiotherapy and other expensive and sophisticated equipment. Remember that a number of patients have so far complained that radiotherapy devices have been delayed by treatment. Then lack of multidisciplinaryism in oncology, lack of quality oncology databases and quality control, follow-up of treatment outcomes, insufficient investment in all aspects of oncology from education, better quality nutrition and healthy habits from small legs to treatment, providing psychological assistance to patients, and up to paliative care for cancer patients. It is necessary to clearly define the so-called. the patient's path, where, and within which time the patient should be given care. We do not have the accreditation of hospitals or cancer centres, a quality oncology network must be established in the Republic of Croatia, not everyone can do everything, and it is all on the Ministry. The national cancer detection programmes are of paramount importance. As regards the breast since 2006. Every 2 years. all women in the Republic of Croatia aged 50-69 are invited to attend the mammographic examination. Women, respond to the reviews because early detection allows better treatment and saves lives. Meanwhile, each woman should perform breast self - examinations every month. Although most breast cancer cases are diagnosed in older women, breast cancer can cause younger women. It is therefore important to start and develop a habit of regular breast examination from the earliest age. Response to early detection of colon cancer is 20% and breast 60%. The pandemic further reduced the availability of a health system for non-covid patients. Although the Ministry of Health has on several occasions asked health institutions to take care of cancer patients and appoint an oncology patient coordinator due to dissatisfaction with health care professionals screening programs have been reduced, women's response has been reduced, control checks and additional tests and radiation have been delayed, and the consequences will only be seen. I call on all citizens to respond the day after tomorrow to Narcissus Day, and tomorrow, at the session of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy at the the thematic session dedicated to Narcissus Day, we will hear from the first-hand which problems, prejudices, Stigmatisation, encounters of breast cancer, which are real problems in the health system, we will hear what happens between Yellow Flowers Day when individuals unfortunately join only to take pictures, and do not make enough to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83524	A respected representative, Nevenko Barbaric, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83525	A new round of negotiations on amending election legislation under the auspices of US and EU representatives was held in Sarajevo last weekend. Croatia's new failure opens a series of dilemmas. It is the first to go to elections to give legitimacy to such an election process or as a people not to participate in an election farce. However, the elections will reflect the will of the majority people. International representatives regret missed opportunities and a failed deal, but say the elections must be held as planned in the 10th month of the current year. It's very important to mention two things here. The first is that holding elections without amending electoral legislation and limited amendments to the BiH Constitution are against the law, illegal, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court by passing part of the provisions relating to the completion of the electoral law, which refers to the completion of the Federation House of Peoples, and yet the elected election commission, imposed by the majority of Bosniak, Bosniak peoples. In the election process, this election process plays a role in determining the criteria of the House of Peoples' completion. What do you think of the warrant? Also, you think who and how, fills the club of others or the club of Serbs in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament. The essence of amending the electoral law is to fill the people's homes. This and such an election process are opening the door wide to ensure that Bosniaks fully control the Federation, two-thirds of the state, leading many to an even greater political stalemate in BiH's reform processes. The other thing is very important to know that the Croats are not looking for anything else they didn't have, that they didn't agree and signed from Washington, Dayton to Paris. Nothing more than what the different world-wide mechanics, under the pretext of creating a functional BiH, have taken away from them, have denied them. It would be very important to talk here, and the moody time does not allow me about the ambience within BiH, the environment about, in the course of these negotiations. We must also ask ourselves how these years, the official politics of the Republic of Croatia treated the Croats. We also need to ask ourselves why the criticisms of this particular government, this Prime Minister, part of the media, are part of the policies here in Croatia and BiH. It does not seem to be anything, it does not seem enough, criticises diplomatically, and efforts to advocate the European path of BiH, the constitutionality of Croats in such BiH from the first day of the government's term to the last decisions or documents, as regards the Croatian American Forum or the important strategic document, the Strategic Compass, the EU document that defines security issues by mentioning BiH, the consistency of three peoples. Some as a solution offer 3 entities resuscitation of Herceg Bosnia, great, just how, I'm afraid they've slept through the last 20 years. They're mentioned and the blockades aren't said where and how. However, I am convinced that I share the views of most of the political representatives of the Croatian people, most of the Croatian people in BiH, and I thank this government, President Plenkovic, for everything they do for the Croats within BiH. I also believe that Croatian political representatives gathered at the HNS will soon be determined when it comes to going out or not going to the upcoming elections. I also believe that almost the basis of the conclusions of the Croatian National Assembly's extraordinary assembly with the support and support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will seek solutions to survival, a solution to full equality and the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83526	Thank you. In the name of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-24-0.u83705	Your Honor. The Croatian village has been economic and infrastructureally lagging behind the city for decades and is demographically backward. A large number of residents from the village to the city and the expressed process of depopulation have significantly reduced the developmental opportunities of Croatian villages and a complete rural space. These negative trends continued over the last decade and deepened the uneven economic and social development of rural areas with negative consequences for the stabilisation, settlement and overall economy of Croatia. The biggest problems of today's village population are that many research, unemployment, poor infrastructure equipment of the settlement and generally worse living conditions than the city. A large number of people in the village are more than a fifth of them intending to leave the village and move to the city. The new exodus from the stele population can only be prevented by increasing employment and income and by developing the infrastructure in the rural area. In primary agricultural production, the size of ownership to the level of economic sustainability should be increased. This is possible through the transparent sale of the remaining state land to rural economies that work, create and live in the countryside, and by consistent implementation of the provisions of the Agricultural Land Act which must be directed towards the family economy. It's been good enough for large capital. It is necessary to significantly encourage direct sales of agricultural products and processing on the economy, production and marketing of products with added value, or traditional and innovative products, all forms of agrotourism and alternative energy sources, in particular green energy production. Furthermore, economic benefits from private forests should be increased and rural economies should be included in the exploitation of national forests. The rural population should be involved in providing municipal and social services in the rural area. As a good example, a Bavarian example of the restoration of the village, which began in 1970 and has largely integrated the EU into its rural policy. The further depopulation of the Croatian village will be devastating for the entire Croatian society, and its greatest consequences will be the following, uncontrolled urbanisation, further uneven state development, insufficient use of spatial and human potential, and ultimately poverty of the entire Croatia. The policy of explicitly favouring intensive or large production in the Croatian edition except that it is owned by an import trade lobby has proved unable to provide even the primary task of public nutrition. This has contributed to a debt crisis which now forces Croatia by imperative means to quickly discover its hidden potential. The land management must play a key role in this regard, and policy must be based on a clear focus on fostering the interest, effort and business of smaller farmers. The fateful question facing the ruling is therefore which of these two models of development whether corporate capital or family rationalises will be the reference framework in writing and applying the laws. So far, the state has been focusing on the first model, although even its worst advocates acknowledge that its wider implementation, unlike favouring certain companies, would require huge and cheap and unreachable loans. The state itself, however, has had its special interests in its real support of the alternative so far. Many of its professional servants have been strongly bureaucratized and unorthodox to the service of small stakeholders, and their focus on large corporate-owned plants has simplified their work. The macroeconomic view is that we need to change the policy but the correction is lagging behind because, from the narrow perspective of state finances, large imports were the most comfortable and appropriate source of value added tax. In Croatia, large net imports are made possible by large foreign borrowing, so the country is west of growing food dependence. Over the last decade, about $2 million a day. Now the road is limited, so agriculture is forced to abandon the missed model and re-examine the policy so far. The question of how to enable family economies to go into the affirmation of their capabilities is raised, as late as it is in relation to parallel processes in Western Europe. Thank you.
