ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102724	Good morning! I warmly welcome you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all and see you much more clearly without two plexiglasses so it's a much more pleasant view now. I particularly welcome the President of the Government, Vice-Presidents and other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs and MPs have received the minutes of the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If there is no confirmation that we adopted the minutes of the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In addition to the final draft agenda, I included 7 new points under regular numbers 1, 15, 16, 17, 29, 85 and 93 in the final draft agenda. I'm not going to read them because you got it in writing. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for meetings, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly may also be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to points which did not contain the draft agenda, in accordance with the request for a meeting, and those points are included in the agenda of the 11th session. In accordance with Article 228, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I hereby announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102845	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HDZ, and will speak the esteemed representative Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102846	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the real name of the HDZ Club, also inspired by the current one, would perhaps want to explain something further about the government's successes related to the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. All the time everything that is good in Croatia that we have managed to fight it is a follow-up. This government has no influence, and Andrej Plenkovic did not win anything in Brussels. On the contrary, he fought 25 billion euros for the next 10 years. If we knew how to use them, we also showed in this period where we have more than 130 percent of the contract. Therefore, almost 70% of the funds paid. For future development, it will be particularly important digital and green, and we know that we can and we know that we also show that the government is working. And that criticism that came today from the field of opposition and about reconstruction and about everything absolutely does not stand. Ministers are ministers until the prime minister decides otherwise. And to do that, it's pretty much done. In the last few weeks alone, nearly 5 billion kunas have been announced from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, and today, the prime minister announced for tomorrow at 10, and his colleague has invited them to come to the presentation of a 1.2 billion kuna competition to build kindergartens. Of these 25 billion euros, 10 billion are the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, 6 and a half billion are grants, and 2 competitions worth 1.6 billion kuna were opened last week. 1.4. 3 competitions related to both energy recovery and support to entrepreneurs worth 800 million kuna are presented. And tomorrow we open a kindergarten competition. When we watch this competition just last week 1 billion kunas for water projects, 45 thousand of our citizens will join the public water supply system. That's enough to say that the government is working and that there's absolutely no talking about any kind of paralysis or any of that. 610 million kunas from last week's competition will go to equip logistics and distribution centres for fruit and vegetables, freezers. We've all advocated, and we've all talked from this phone booth about the freezers. Here is an opportunity to finance 3 to 5 logistics centres in Croatia that will care or store 3 to 12 thousand tonnes of fruit and vegetables. This will very much help Croatian farmers in the food supply chain, and this will very much lead to their being able to sell fruit and vegetables when prices are higher and better earned. And that's gonna help, and that's what we've discussed today on the topical table a lot about food security, especially at the time of the war we have in Europe, and that's one of the steps we have. 1.2 billion kuna for kindergartens is a very demographic measure. 500 kindergartens have been built so far from the Rural Development Programme. All those mayors and commissioners here from the Parliament know best what that means. This is an additional 1.2 billion kuna plus which will be additional rural development funds when operational programmes are approved. So we knew and the prime minister fought for the funds and fought 2 billion euros more. We have shown that we know how to call a tender and arrange funds, and these funds can be used by 2026. Besides them, we still have 14 billion euros in funding from a multi-annual framework or 2021-27th standard European budget. And we still have the resources to rebuild from the Solidarity Fund. When we sum up all of that 25 billion euros, we started to spend it right away. Therefore, the government has shown that it is able to vote on funds in Brussels, that this is not an accident, that it is constantly working and that these funds are continuously being announced, spent on the benefit of Croatian citizens and will bring improvement to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102847	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take one break to four o'clock and then we're gonna move on to the next point. It's 3:38 p.m. Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, CENTR and Vosa will now speak the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102975	These days, the state summit and the media are concerned with whether Perkovic and Mustac are criminals from the former regime or are particularly responsible citizens in the creation of this state. For everything that plagues our citizens and our responsibility to the generations to come, it is a completely irrelevant and side issue. Since I did not have the right to ask questions today in the context of the current morning, because we have mutilated and converted the Rules of Procedure and this democratic government control institute into a right that has only 40 lots of elected MPs. I'm gonna ask my question now. Is the minister who was last appointed and arrived at this government the first one to leave? And here's why. Ivan Paladina is the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property. It is a portfolio that in its portfolio, in its work, responsibilities and powers has control over one of the most important state resources, which is space. And if we look at what we've done with that space in the last 30 years, if I look at what we've done on the coast and on the marine good, we can be ashamed of ourselves in front of those who have left the land for our inheritance. Changes in urban plans often corruptly supported at the lowest level in which the obedient party majority in the city and municipal councils vote as they are told without much talk and questions we have allowed the devastation of existing spatial features. Obviously, megalomania and a desire for fast profit were more important than awareness of nature conservation, identity and public interest. Now, that's called Kuschevacija. Kuschevacija did not stop by the fact that Lovro Kuščević stopped being the minister of each other's ministry. Kuschevacija marks the concept, marks a man who is aware that the position creates an opportunity and he does not hesitate to use that opportunity to gain, to increase, to accumulate his own wealth at the expense of all others, and very often with the procedures and methods that are at the very edge of the law and often through the law if he thinks he will not be caught and processed. Ivan Paladin is a man of proven abilities in these very shops. His wealth, his property estimated at several tens of millions of kunas, was acquired precisely from the subjects he was obliged to care about. His property card shows that he took good care of himself, while the company he ran with ceased to exist and behind the companies remained debts and failed projects. In itself, it makes him unworthy of his ministerial duties. But when these tails from the minister's business past are placed in the context of the ministry he now manages, I believe that national interests are seriously at stake and that this minister poses a large and high corrupt risk. On the web. The Croatian Parliament page on the agenda is also the Report of the Government on the implementation of the Annual State Property Management Plan for 2020. This report should not be read as it says, but should be criticised in the context of data that is not available in the report. Namely, this Report is proof that Croatia has not yet been in possession of independence and independence for 30 years since the state's lack and absence. Croatia still doesn't know when it comes to its properties, which is exactly all its property, which is at its disposal and what the value of the property is. Real estate data must be public. These data must be established in the form of publicly available registers in order to enable the public and citizens to verify and control the use of such assets in a legitimate or corrupt manner. If we look at examples of Minister Marija Banozic and Prime Minister of the Government, then we see that they are used in a corrupt way. The lack of publicly available records creates a wide range of bargaining space. It can be granted in a different way in order to determine the amount of rent, rent or other fees or failure to pay that fee in the state budget and thus Croatia loses hundreds of millions of kunas. Therefore, in order to prevent such damage, I will refer the proposal to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion suspending any further availability of state-owned real estate until the Croatian Parliament adopts amendments to the Law on the Management of State Property and the Law on the Central Register of State Property in a way that prescribes the obligation to set up publicly available and publicly published registers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u102976	Thank you very much. Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club will now speak the esteemed representative Katica Glamuzina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103059	Thank you. After today's incumbent and after a long announced government reconstruction that has for some reason not yet happened on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I would like to offer a small summary of the Plenkovic era. Since autumn 2016, until today, not full of six years, Prime Minister Plenkovic's mandate has been replaced by an impressive number of ministers. It began with the shift of the Bridge Ministers, and a series continued until the end of the term of office due to malfeasance, hidden information about property of affairs, catastrophic gaps within the vaults they led, etc., so let's just remember the most sounding ones. Pavo Barisic, political role model Vice Mihanovic, the minister of science who left the government as a result of the plating scandal. Lovro Kuščević, Tomislav Tolusic, Goran Maric, Damir Krsticevic leave after various property real estate scandals. Gabrielu Zalac cost the car accident she caused even though she was picked up a little later by OLAF because of suspicion of malfeasance with EU funds. Minister Kujundzic, who recalls saying that the hospital is worth more to the priest than the doctor, even calculated that the priest is worth 20 doctors if I remember correctly. Martina Dalic of the government left after a scandal with Lex Agrokor and the Borg affair. It was replaced by another perspective by Prime Minister Plenkovic, Horvat. The perspective I'm talking about is the defendant's course, and there appear to be some other current ministers. Not to mention the name by the name of Light motive is clear, there was more than just buying perfume to guessing in competitions, until there was no renewal, so the drone fell, so it was a bomb, so it was not a bomb, so many affairs and scandals that the Croatian people were more Googled. So many affaires are expected and scrawny that small things like guessing in employment don't seem relevant at all anymore. HDZ authorities have led to the fact that nepotism and malfeasance have become acceptable because honorary public work has become a long-standing memory and no one even sees it as an option anymore. And yes, the people chose them and had legitimacy, the people chose and chose to lead our country again, a party convicted of corruption. Every nation has the power it deserves, it's a famous catchphrase, and I'm just wondering if the Croatian people really don't think it deserves better than this. Our health system had been collapsed before the pandemic, and the social system continued to suffer terrible failures with terrible consequences. Our economy is unhealthyly dependent on the results of the tourist season, science and education are not appreciated, although they have become subject to jokes with the dawn of new doctors of science, especially from one Croatian university, demographically failing, and the government has shown that the EU funds are only known to be misused, and apparently cannot be used for the general good of Croatian citizens, so we have received a few showers from the EU because of this, but it still stands, and the new Minister Paladin himself observes that one and a half year after the formation of the funds in Zagreb does not have a single site. Come on, we haven't noticed yet, let's see how the water can be warmed up and that the wheel is round and we can conclude with that all relevant knowledge of the new minister. And apro for this new minister, don't forget because the investigative journalists served us all the information before the minister was confirmed and despite the government's failure to carry out the check on its own, a lot of questions are now being asked around him, and he hasn't started yet. It's a lot of worrying knowledge at least, I apologize, knowledge that in any normal country would disqualify him as a candidate for any public office, let alone a minister's office. And knowing all this fully consciously, Prime Minister Plenkovic stands responsibly behind that appointment and now I ask you after all this, after so many ministerial shifts, whether they are to blame themselves or something is to blame and their selector. If it were a sports team after so many mistakes, the electorate would resign, however, they would ask him for loud and unsatisfactory fans, but it seems that our people can't accept what they can't do in sports in politics, so without a problem, they will continue voting for HDZ no matter how badly he played. Since the government's announced reconstruction, it may not be a letter, it may be reconstructed by the DORH if it isn't the prime minister because it really isn't easy for the prime minister, it seems that no one wants to go into his government anymore, and perhaps he would go into a larger reconstruction that he has with whom, but if he only has the staff like Paladin at his disposal, so I understand, it's hard to find in HDZ people who are both capable and honorable and who would like to connect with this government, and therefore the message from the Social Democrats Club is that the only real reconstruction is the one that is the result of the elections and the will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103103	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now speak the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103104	I'm not saying that these topics mean 20th century doesn't matter, it's important to have an attitude about them. As a bridge, we have a clear slope towards fascism, communism, Nazism, the heritage of the Croatian political past all that led to the democratic Croatian state, and here I was listening to President Milanovic before. About everything he said about HDZ, about Andrej Plenkovic, we can sign it, and we can even sign his statement that HDZ has been tied to UDBA as a gum on the sidewalk in the summer heat, so we agree with that, but we are not clear why Zoran Milanovic himself has been stepping on that chewing gum since 2013, persistently from lex Perkovic, and now, to this possible, possible pardoning of the refugee liquidators, which we do not agree with. But what I'm going to talk about is a certified emergency service job. So we are the only country in the EU in which emergency services do not have a benefits. I'm asking you fellow MPs and asking the question to the entire Croatian public. Imagine three people from 65. That with 30 kilos of equipment on their backs they run on the 5th floor of the building without an elevator for resuscitation, after which, together with the patient they're carrying down, they're taking him to the hospital and this one without any rest so they're doing their job and so 12 hours a day minimum and I'm asking the question which is the logic that firefighters, I think they need to have, that they have, that the police have an unfettered job, and that there is no emergency, imagine what scenes these people who are working in the emergency service are seeing almost daily, and how does that affect their psychic life, their health, this and what is the role of emergency aid less demanding than the honorable interest and honorable roles of our officers or firefighters? So how is it possible that people at 60 and I don't know '3-4'? be physically strong, mentally strong, capable of such hard work when doing what they do and seeing everything they see in their demanding work through the working days. Do you know how many ambulances have operated on the knees, shoulders, back so far, what are the conditions in which they operate? And here's Madam Representative Maja Grba Bujevic, she was supposed to, she came into the House to represent these people who work in the Emergency Service, she didn't do anything. And I hope, here are some positive indications to them that this benefitous work experience was lifted during Minister Andrija Hebrang's time, there are some statements made by Minister Beros that this might happen that there are some positive winds. I've heard from people who work for the ER today, and they claim there's a possibility that the government will meet them there. And here's my speech to be one incentive for the government to do it, and I think it's necessary. So these are the people who are also protesting here in Mark's square, who fought for their rights, and we as a Bridge want to show them support. We know times are hard. We know there's no money in the budget. But the government should spend less on infatuation, less on corruption, so do everything to boost the economy. We at the Bridge believe that this is possible only by reducing tax discharge. Some others here in Parliament will say otherwise to those who advocate I don't know any state interventionism. But I think those times are over and these experiments have proved unsuccessful. And when we speak here these days we have this subject of the unfortunate theme of UDBA, it often seems like some exotic subject, and we would much rather talk about the existential problems of our citizens, but in fact the reality is denying us. It shows that these structures are still alive, and we are not talking about this socialist mentality that burdens both our society and the state and which needs to be changed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103203	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103204	Thank you. Here, after today's topical and ongoing search of our government's current and numerous affairs, I'm going to talk about something that we've been missing all along, and we're missing exactly because HDZ generates affairs on a weekly basis, so the possibility of dealing with medium- and long-term policies is zero. The other day in Dubrovnik, together with our colleagues from Srđa, we began a coastal campaign that responds to the continued devastation of coastal resources, mostly directed or by governments or local sheriffs who, as my colleague Oreshkovic said earlier in her position, see first of all an opportunity. This opportunity is for all other problems, and I'm going to give a few examples here of what the concept of development you're offering us as if it were development, which is the concept HDZ has. So, your current political and economic strategy is largely based on excessive urbanisation, apartmentisation and hotelisation, which involves systematic destruction of the coastal belt, where the only indicator of your success in tourism is your number of overnight stays, the number of vehicles that have crossed the border and how much anyone has possibly spent from these arrivals. To raise the number of nights you systematically destroy valuable spatial resources for several generations, and this destruction will just lead to the fact that the tourist will not be, they will not be because of its natural beauty and not the aesthetic visions offered by HDZ. Thus, it will also destroy these resources for the local community, but also the possibility of sustainable tourism in the future. I'll give you a few, a few examples that when you see everything you understand about what our model is based on. The recent example of your chief in Postiram, Brač, who defends this project is this beautiful hotel, it is a beautiful hotel that covers the visor, the entire visor of Postira, they are no longer seen from the sea, nor are people living in this place seeing more sea. For irony to be better, you know what's called Hotel View, the view, it could be called the Stolen View because they stole everyone else's view. So, who approved that such a pre-named literal monster was built on the very shore of a little piety place on the island of humans? Here, that. Furthermore, apart from building a hotel on every cliff that can be found, we have a recent, recent trend called food beaches officially, and in fact it's about pouring the beaches, so we have Mr. Josko Rosic, here present in a picture that likes baggers, loves the country and likes to spread the coastal area or coastal lines to the sea, and why does he like it? So in Baška Voda, where you have one of the most beautiful beaches in Croatia, it pours the land into the sea to expand that beach, so why? Well, because a man deals, his wife, his relatives by renting a deck chair, so that any more deck chair, which 100 kuna more, and what it's really about is that no one but citizens is interested in. All these examples are examples that I receive on a daily basis to the Environment Protection Committee, where we regularly pass this on to the State Inspectorate, where the inspectorate most often finds that it is a violation of the law and that story stops, the return to the previous state is gone, there is no punishment, and the coast is increasingly devastated every day. It is a model of development offered by this government and all its predecessors, directed by the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103283	Here is a respected colleague and colleagues, the break is over, and as announced we will go to the presentation on behalf of the clubs of representatives and independent representatives and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103284	Here's my honor without the plexiglas. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Croats are like a few who are extremely divided by the people of the world, especially as regards the view of our past, mostly in the 20th century. Namely, the only thanks to the first Croatian president was to unite both children and grandchildren of partisans and children and grandchildren of Ustasha and children and grandchildren of the natives who participated in the creation of an independent Croatian state with a rifle in their hand. Unfortunately, after the Homeland War again in the direction of individuals, the Croatian people are divided to the left and right and ideologically colored and this division is increasingly emerging from time to time depending on the day-to-day political situation. These days, the independent state of Croatia is being updated again, the greeting "For Home Ready" is being updated again, but there is never a question of what is so-called. antifascist or communist greetings, what about "Death Fascism and Freedom to the People", what about "The Five-point Star"? In fact, the Croatian people during the 20th century were subjected to an extraordinary amount of injustice and evil. Let's remember '45. And the breakout of the sreme front in Slavonia when they were so-called. The liberators, or partisans, when they entered every village, in every place, in every city they freed within a short period of just a few days killed dozens and hundreds of prominent villagers or citizens simply because they were Croats or Germans under cover that they worked with the occupier. For example, in Vukovar on April 12th, when four hundred prominent Vukovars without a court were shot in just a few days. The day after the entry of the Partisans into Vinkovce, 300 prominent Vinkovcans were shot. The same situation was in Djakov and Brod, and in every place throughout Croatia and throughout BiH, what is very important without the court. Then comes Bleiburg where 10 thousand people were killed without a court under the parliaments of antifascism, and then the Crossway where some estimates estimate that about 100,000 Croats were killed. And there's no talking about it today, but there's talk of banning certain greetings, and no one mentions that there's a ban on saying hellos. An antifascist, or communist, eats just under that greeting was the most evil done to the Croatian people, 45. It had to be kept quiet, but today it must not be kept quiet, and today it must be looked into the truth. In history nothing has ever been black white, nor will anything ever be black white, but it should be said openly that antifascism is not a sacred cow although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that Croatia's heritage of anti-fascist values is precisely because we have the right to criticise this anti-fascism, it is not a sacred cow and it is under which crimes against the Croatian people are committed, and if some greetings should be banned then these are just such greetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103391	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103392	So for me too, for this free speech, inspiration will be questions to the president, questions to ministers that current clock. In answer to my question, I came across two things. I liked one thing, one thing's fine, and the other one's completely messed up. As I was pleased a year ago when I first asked a question on the subject of the Serbian Orthodox Church or the Treaty of the Serbian Orthodox Church with the Croatian state in Croatia, the president honestly admitted that he did not know, that he would study and answer me. However, from today’s response, this is the part of the topic I am dissatisfied with. I can see from today's answer that he didn't look at it, that he didn't study it, and that topic is extremely important right behind that other topic that the prime minister highlighted because he said if you remember that he would like to hear what I am about to relax and correct Serbian-Croatian relations because there is a serious conflict on another political battlefield waiting for us to fight against the common enemy, so I will explain what this is about, and especially because between fellow Bridge and Prime Minister Kapulice there was a serious conflict and it was very convenient to listen and follow. So now I'm going to tell or say what I think about it and how I see it. In the 12th month, half of the 12th month, 95th century after the Treaty was signed in Paris, initialled in Dayton, Bosnia and Herzegovina, continues political activities but with weapons. There's only one side that shoots. Serbs do not shoot at Croats and Bosniaks. Croats don't shoot at Serbs and Bosniaks, and Bosniaks shoot at Croats nicely and precisely, kill them like dogs. That's what I'd like the president to hear. This should be heard by Europe because Bosniaks on the one hand kill Croats like dogs, and on the other hand they whine and whine in Europe explaining how they are threatened, how they are very good, very tolerated, etc. and this semi-literate Europe accepts it. Gentlemen, I don't have to by any chance know which time I repeat that I have offended a great friend of the Bosniaks here. I am now, but I'm not a friend of that policy. So, 20 days after the signing of the Treaty in Paris in the Bosniak side of Mostar, a sniper shot kills a Croatian policeman and not a Croatian policeman, but a Bosnia and Herzegovina policeman kills him on the other hand. In 97, 7 Croatian returnees were killed in Central Bosnia, raping a 90-year-old woman. Two years later, two other Croatian police officers, Peric Bilic and Antun Veljan, in Central Bosnia, are killing. The one who died in Mostar is called Željko Ljubic. These are all Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers but Croats with nationality. So these cop murders with sniper shots can't happen to be spontaneous and disorganized. They have a clear political message. Smart enough. On the other hand, something important the prime minister should know. We often have a cry for Bakir Izetbegovic and his curvature, politics, indisposition to the Croats, etc. If there is a Bosniak politician to agree with, it is Bakir Izetbegovic. I knew his father, on the surface of him, and I knew their relatives Sulejman Tihic. It's the only line of political pragmatism and real politics. When Bakir Izetbegovic was taken from Stipe Mesic and came to the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic because they intended Zoran the president of the state to rebel, however, they encountered a man of clear attitude and firm character who told them what was happening to the Croats in BiH. From this, Izetbegovic realized that with Croatia he could not plan and intend to change politics, but he was welcomed by a Sarajevo charter that works, the Sarajevo charter is now working for you as in Serbia the black arm of 1900, not by official politicians but by the decision of 3-4 journalists and 4-5 audio-speaked politicians. It's the team that decides in Sarajevo on BiH's political fate, it's the team that brought BiH to the brink of destruction, in fact, that country hasn't even come to life, it's leading to destruction, and Another thought, therefore, is the fate of the Croatian people in BiH, not BiH anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103537	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will now speak the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, a number of pensioners were alarmed by the news that they could lose this one-time aid to the government of the energy supplement because the new indexation of pensions that are going on these days could easily have come out of these classes, which is an absurd, absurd fact, and that's why we're here today from the SDP Club, we warn the government, we're giving the government a proposal to correct it, and what's this about? So a few days ago, the period ended, so they came to release the information about how much the average salary was and then it could go to the indexation of pensions. So the pension, the indexation of pensions for the first quarter, for the first part of this year will be 2.24% and that's for your average pension somewhere around 60 kuna. Let's see how much today is in these inflationary conditions how much for an average pensioner of 60 kuna, that's three liters of oil. Three liters of oil is that, 20 kuna is a liter of oil. And that's why the government has taken action to give one-time assistance, and we've welcomed that, and that's good. But what's not good right now, and we're warning that the pension accounts for who's going to get the indexation don't go according to this indexed one, because a number of pensioners are going to get this 2.2% increase, or the lower class is going to fall, or it's going to fall out of this 4000 kuna. I have said this in public today, and in fact, to the prime minister, he has hoped and appreciated that he will check it out today and Minister Aladrović, and to take into account the indexation of what the government's decision is, and the government's decision to make the monetary income to be based on March 2022. And the best thing to do would be to take that without indexation, so that all those who actually got pensions with March to count on them and therefore according to that government decision, they get that one-off fee. Because in other words, it will turn out that someone with 20 kunas that have passed over to him in the upper class will lose up to 300 kuna can lose. So he gets 20 kuna for indexing he loses 300 kuna. And I think then this measure of government will actually be more counterproductive to those pensioners who were expecting that money. And that's why we suggest here, I know it may be a technical problem in HZMO, but don't worry about it. This is a government decision, you can make it, let them make it right because these are extraordinary circumstances. And that's why we're going to support it and we're calling it because I think it's a political decision and that it's going to support a number of pensioners or that it's still going to get something more than we said here, because the indexation of 2.24% is actually the average pension is about 60 kuna. And now we see that this isn't one-time help, that many pensioners would certainly be damaged by these inflation effects. And another proposal also related to pension funds. Same thing about retirement. We see that for this first quarter, the first data has been released that pensions, i.e. the net assets of pension funds of nearly 3 billion kuna, have dropped the total mass. And that's the proposal to the government, when it's already falling so prices they've invested that money let them invest more in energy because now energy prices are growing. So it's growing energy. To invest in HEP, allow them to compensate that part in these inflationary times because they may have to invest in some shares or bonds of the Republic of Croatia which now have low yields. And they lose that part of their pension. Let us if the price of energy increases, if in that part, let them keep the pensions of those they have in the second pillar, so that they do not fall three billion kunas in these two months according to the HANFA reports. It just melts that property. And so let them, because they protect pensions, let them invest more in the energy sector, follow them, control them, monitor them, etc. But let them keep the value of their pensions. So these are also because, unfortunately, the effects of price control will not show here the effect you have to go into an increase in wages. You have to go to a minimum wage increase, you have to. She's now on 3750 kuna, and you need to go up in the public sector. You have to, because simply in order for this standard, you failed with fiscal measures you failed to maintain it now you have to go to an increase in wages to maintain real purchasing power. That's all you can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103605	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103606	Good afternoon. Every worker has the right to earn money that can provide his and his family with a decent life, at least in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But in the sector of trade where more than 15% of our workers work, more than 200 thousand workers, this is the second sector meaning after the processing industry in Croatia most workers do not have a salary of which they can live with dignity. Somewhere around four and a half thousand kunas are paid there. Many workers and workers have a minimum, a minimumer meets only 1/3 of the need for basic needs of life monthly. It's not just about the pay. So we have workers and workers who live and work in poverty, but they're also abused. The workers in one store said – it is not what the cashier wants to go to the sea, but the cashier wants to go to the toilet – about what illustrates their status and their working environment. Very often they work so they don't have those 16 hours of sleep, 8 hours of vacations selected by a centuries-old labor and union struggle. The collective contract was suspended in 2013, and was abolished by the Association of Employers who then commented that the contract does not support or monitor trends and the functioning of modern trade and that it is not in line with existing legislation and practice. So I'll read you a letter from the workers, and we'll see how it is now consistent with the modern trade work in Kaufland. It's about the comment that the worker put on their post on the Kaufland site that is 3,000 times laikan and 200 times divided, and then Kaufland of course removed it. We got word from the workers to publish it, and that's why I'm reading it here. "Kaufland is increasing wages again. Kaufland is investing in his employees. Kaufland pays the awards twice a year, increases the clock for night work. Shame on you. On my current account was sat this famous increase in salary of 110 kuna more compared to February when there were fewer working hours and nothing different from pay for January. You're investing in employees. And what exactly are you investing in? Mandatory work shoes that would be heavy for God or for wages that are higher for 100 kuna. No, I'm sorry. You're investing in a psychologist who's coming to comfort us and hear our concerns and no use at all. We get two prizes a year. So tell everyone what the conditions are to get that reward. Some companies give their employees a regress, benefit, and the billions of dollars a year you can't give a reward for dedication because people if you live or work that you get nothing. And even that little neighborhood baker who doesn't have a God-knows-what income to his bakers in the night is more money. It's a shame. It's important that you commend yourself in all the newspapers. One business unit earns you at least 100 million kuna in a year. We make you that much a year. And how much of that $100 million do you pay us? You can lie to customers and cheat, but you can't cheat on us. You didn't give anything but Patrick Martin Marco. Do you gentlemen feel on your salaries the growth of the basket or do you feel just a drop in productivity? Do you ever wonder who makes Kaufland Croatia work? Can Kaufland do without you or without us? Do you prepare every day for the logistics of hundreds of palettes? Isn't it embarrassing for you to put in an annex contract that people are obliged to go to the season to separate them from their families? You are not uncomfortable measuring the speeds at the registers, talking about some euro per employee, productivity. You're not uncomfortable comparing traffic with last year, and you're playing with prices as if it's a child's monopoly. You are not embarrassed to throw food every day, because the bakery has to have products by evening, bananas must be exclusively yellow etc."I don't know if I should call my workmates on this road so we don't do anything until Easter because we're not paid enough or invite customers not to come shopping with us but to go to small local stores, the owners will be more grateful to them, and they will be more satisfied because they will save more. Anyway, I'm not gonna make any mistakes, and I'm gonna write here until you change something, and it's gonna be all over the media, and don't just tell me where you're going to be better because I won't. If we remain silent and go where is better, all of Croatia will be in Germany and as long as we remain silent, we will be paid. My colleagues and colleagues, I assume you've been shopping for Easter in terms of the heights of your salaries, I suppose you haven't been in need of it, sometimes when you come to the cashier's office the way people work, the way they live and actually work and live in poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103791	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. These are articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Today, the first in line is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He will question the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here's a colleague of Zekanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103792	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has one topic that has recently been extremely relevant and I must ask you a question on this subject. It is about the possibility of pardoning Perkovic and Mustac. You have already given your position, but I would like to hear your position on this subject loud and clear in front of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament once again. I, as a small introduction, will still say one thought, which is that the letter of the generals who asked for the pardon of Perkovic and Mustac is not really their initiative, but above all is the initiative of the gentleman from Pantovac, the man we can call today with the right spokesman of the Kremlin. So he forgets that the Kremlin is in Moscow and that Pantovčak is in Zagreb. And here I would make another interesting link that I don't know if anyone noticed, which is that one of the signatories of this letter supports Perkovic and Mustac, one of the main advocates of similar theories, as well as the spokesman from the Kremlin, and this is Admiral Domazet Loša, who has recently been trying to reciprocate Russian aggression to independent Ukraine, who, in times of the pandemic, also spoke about the fight against the pandemic. And what we all know today, we know it was all about, here's the slowly revealing and financing of Russian money. So, Prime Minister once again commented on me a shameful request and this whole game about Perkovic and Mustac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103793	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103794	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased that we are here after the relaxation of measures against covida-19 again in the full plenary session. It's been a really long time, and here's the feeling much better. As for your question, a few remarks. First HDZ is against, we said it very clearly from the very beginning several times, even yesterday. We believe that this initiative, if there is one, should go from those who have a title for it. The other day in Split politics, this failed team, which led Split for a year, took the women of Split and Split to the elections to talk about the adjudication, about the fig leaf. This right here is a cross of leaves caused by nothing to the harm of those who signed this appeal. And I think it's one big weakness, the weakness of the one who was supposed to apply for it, which is a legal representative or family, and most of all, the weakness of the one who's been keeping quiet all this time waiting to see what we're all going to say about it, and that's the only one who, according to the Croatian Constitution, has in his jurisdiction to give pardons, although in the campaign, he said it was an institute that would not be used even on 274 or 5 of the submitted requests by the Ministry of Justice so far has not responded to any of them. So also the cross of leaves, one cross and the unnecessary introduction of the hero of the Homeland War into one topic that will share a society that will cause divisions, it is already seen among the generals and defenders themselves and even in the Croatian being. But it's obviously an orchestra where the brides are being made, surprised, surprised, will talk, and they themselves talk about how they've negotiated this whole action. But well, Croatia has seen many orchestrated actions, this is one of them. We on the side of the government don't have any authority here, my God, I'm going to say my position, as you said it, as we say today, will be decided by someone else about what will ultimately be. However, this remark about the spokesman of the Kremlin or the Kremlin is very interesting, so it has now been 55 or 6 days since the Russian aggression and invasion of Ukraine. I sent a letter to the President for the National Security Council meeting on 24 February on the day when tectonic changes took place for the European continent, for international law, for the international order, for all the values we share, there is no answer. We are probably the only member of the EU that has the National Security Council that in 55 days of such shock and brutal aggression that has caused, 10 million people to be displaced from their homes, nearly 5 million people are out of Ukraine already, enormous damage, a war that rages, we have not yet met. If it were the other way around, I wouldn't be able to walk down the hall without having 100 questions as to why we didn't meet. These are all facts to be taken care of. The damage that has been done to us by certain statements, which I said at the beginning that I thought this was a statement from some Russian ministry official, has been confirmed all this time, so there is no meeting of the National Security Council, and the question is whether or not it will be because as a government we do not need, we have made our decisions, behind them is the Croatian people, behind them is the great solidarity of the Croatian people towards Ukraine, and those who do harm us to ask whether they have been given a mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103795	Thank you. Here's a statement from my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103796	Dear Prime Minister, I've got a little more to add. For all those who don't know it not so long ago in 1983. The axe crushed Stjepan Đurekovic, with an axe, and the direct responsibility of Stjepan, so Mustac and Perkovic, so they are directly responsible for the crime. And it bothers me very much that some abdominals, and sitting here in HS spokesmen from the Kremlin, did not say anything at all, or after somewhere between the lines, criticized this shameful initiative, and otherwise the on-call commentators of each fallen list from every tree in Croatia, because this is one of the most embarrassing events in the recent Croatian history, and it does us at least as much damage as it did to us by that disastrous statement or statements by our spokesman from the Kremlin or the kremal spokesman Mr Milanovic. What I have yet to say here, and it is very important, when it comes to the merits of the two in the creation of the Croatian state in '91, because of these two and similar things happened in '91, if there were no Perkovic, Mustac and him alike, there would be no Homeland War as it was, we might have had a peaceful break-up or break-up of Yugoslavia, and thanks to them both to their misdeeds and their politics and their octopus, it happened that we had to give 15,000 lives of Croatian defenders for the free Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103797	Now, as second representative Predrag Štromar, the question will be asked by Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103798	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. Dear Mr. Minister Fuchs, I ask you a question. In the 2020-2024 government programme, it clearly stands, and I will quote, it will enable the enrollment of children in kindergartens throughout the year, and when budget conditions are obtained, free kindergartens for all children whose property censorship per family member does not exceed 3,000 kuna. Among other things, about the government programme, which is why we as HNS supported this government, and I am sure that we will do it in 4 years, so I ask a concrete question, have these conditions been developed that can be done, and we know how important these conditions are to us, and this is the further development of demographicism in Croatia, demographic revitalisation and certainly improving the situation of young families because they will be simpler when they know where they will leave the child and will not pay much for leaving the child and that they will be safe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103799	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103800	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, MPs and MPs. That preschool education is one of the most important segments in the entire vertical education I think it's become clear to everyone, and in particular we've managed when we've been working on a recovery program. In this segment they are provided with significant, I would say large funds for the entire vertical of which is the preschool education of billions and 620 million kunas. With this plan, we intend to build an additional 22,000 and 500 new places in kindergartens throughout the Republic of Croatia, and with this we would draw close to the coverage of children in kindergartens from 90% to '27, and then the operational programme would provide a supplement that would then ensure in Croatia that 96% of children aged three to 1st grade so that they will be placed in kindergartens and that they must attend preschool education, given that countless times have been scientifically established that this preschool education results in better achievements not only in primary school but also in high school, and then also in higher education systems. Namely, it is precisely more relevant tests like Teams and later, of course, PISAs and similarly show something that we knew before that children from better economically situationed families achieve better results in schools, and one way to even it is just preschool education. Very soon, it will be clear right away this week that the government programme designed to build and upgrade existing capacities is going in full swing and that it is envisaged and we are also aware that certain municipalities are not able to endure, let's say, the financial burden on the sustainability of kindergartens and not only in terms of their completion of construction when we talk about some who have already started early from some funds, whether from eu funds or the budget itself, so we have designed a variant of the fiscal maintenance of municipalities and help municipalities that are not able to finance complete kindergartens. And on the criteria in which and who falls within that segment, the government will make a decision. The same will be possible from the state budget and you start building those kindergartens in municipalities that have stopped because they are not finished. Of course, there is also the possibility of supporting those parents who cannot finance the accommodation of children in kindergartens and of course being made available again on the one hand and from the Erasmus+ programme where funds are already provided for such a thing. Therefore, co-financing is made according to a certain property censorship as imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103801	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103802	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We know that every unit of local self-government, every city, every municipality has a different situation fiscal situation income and relation to parents and children co-financing are different, somewhere thousands and more kunas, and somewhere only 200 or 300 kuna per child are as many as the municipality or city can. I think that country must be more engaged and help reduce those peaks to be financed as little by parents as possible, especially in recent times where prices are growing and the economic price of kindergarten rises from around 1,300, 1,400, to 2,000, 2,500 kuna. Here's an appeal, give them an analysis and squeeze the Ministry of Finance and do it as soon as possible to make it really easier and easier for parents. And the other thing about this contest you're talking about for kindergartens, I know that in the last four, five years it's been built or built near 500 kindergartens, but we still have needs. Praise is worth this initiative for more than 20,000 new places, but only one appeal again, allow units of local self-government to build or upgrade kindergartens, but let them rent it to whoever has a public institution, and it is private. There are many such situations in Croatia, and why not allow privates to raise children according to all the standards that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103803	3rd question, MP Gari Cappelli will ask Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103804	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, dear fellow Members. Dear Minister Grlic Radman in the wake of the crisis, so in Ukraine sanctions Russia may be below the radar, which can be said not enough... an important event passed, the Republic of Croatia on January 25, 2022. receive an invitation to open accession negotiations with the OECD Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, which is why you met with the OECD Secretary-General in Paris in mid-March, so if I am not mistaken on 16 March. I would only remind that the Republic of Croatia has submitted its official interest in joining the OECD on 25 January 2017. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, sent a letter of intent to the secretary-general at the time. So from that moment on, we were in the status of a potential candidate state. With the entry into Schengen and the Eurozone, OECD membership is one of the remaining important foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to Schengen, we have met the criteria, expectations for Eurozone entry are next year. Therefore, I would ask you to give us more information about the currentities regarding the Republic of Croatia and the OECD, what is next to be expected, what are the expectations exactly and from HS in the accession process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103805	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103806	Thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli, Your Honor. I am glad that here you have included this radar and that we are finally one activity that may be perceived as something that goes with each other, as well as a lot of things happened in the foreign policy sense, and it is not adequately followed in public because it is thought to be understood, it is in some way really thrown into the shadows, and the focus has indeed been on the Ukrainian crisis and Russian aggression on Ukraine unprecedented in recent history. Of course, while you have listed what is ahead of us from these strategic priorities, one is the OECD, but, of course, in order to access the Schengen area, we are very much hoping for the introduction of the euro from 1 January next year and the OECD as the crown of all because the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is a prestigious organisation that promotes economic values, social policy. An organisation involving only 38 member states. Joining the organisation would mean a lot to Croatia first and foremost in the reform of national reform. We're already on our way in, when it comes to improving the investment climate. So Croatia and each member country are growing credit ratings and some other aspects of reputation. Of course, there is also an improvement in corporate governance of state-owned companies and, of course, the fight against corruption in international business transactions. All that is, in fact, what Croatia has already largely adopted through its EU membership. Of course, all these legal instruments that we should adopt in this one time which could indeed be for Croatia very quickly, judging by the very evaluations and assessments of the main secretariat, Mathias Cormann and his colleagues and colleagues who regularly visit Croatia because Croatia is one of the six potential candidates. What's coming to us? We have an approach plan coming up. The roundms we want means in June we want it and we will get it and we will get it when we are invited to the Ministerial Council in Paris and then we can actually know which and legal instruments it is. So legal instruments that will be contained in the initial memorandum to bring Croatia in line with its own legislation, its own policies, its own practice with OECD values. Of course, it is important and I am very pleased that you have asked this question that the parliamentary dimension of Croatia's accession to OECD membership is very important so that, in the coming period, we will make one presentation of my associates and I with you, which is what is really waiting for us and how can you be involved. That's what this accession is all about. Of course, we have recently established an inter-resor group, a negotiating team headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all resolutions, all representatives and even representatives of the Croatian Parliament are included. Here, in short there's so much to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103807	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103808	Thank you very much, Minister. As you said, the Croatian Parliament will be involved, and cooperation with the OECD takes place through the OECD Global Parliamentary Network, which includes all members of the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Policy from the adoption of the invitation in October 2020. The Committee also acts as a contact point for OECD activities in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the importance of the OECD is exactly the analysis of economic policy as you mentioned, so we can tell these opportunities to join this particular family after joining NATO and the EU, it is in OECD membership to join a vip club where the world's most developed countries are just discussing economic social policy. It will certainly be a great honor and a good position for Croatia to say and mention after NATO and the EU we enter this very important family and be one of the members of that club of the world's most developed countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103809	We move on to 4 MP Ivana Posavec Krivec will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103810	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, today I will but all my colleagues from the Social Democrats Club will ask you five questions. Why you? Well, because we're only sure that after the government's reconstruction, you'll stay in it, and whoever remains as we've heard it, you and you will decide who will leave and when, and even if we respect it, that's your right. So today I won't ask you about the prime minister's decline in living standards, I won't ask you about the increase in prices, I won't ask you about the restoration of Banija and Zagreb, I won't ask you about the waiting lists and debts in health care, I won't ask you about the children's homes, but I won't ask you about rail traffic that won't even exist in Croatia soon. Prime Minister, these are all questions for you because you said that you decide in this government, that you are responsible, that this government begins with you and this government ends. But that's why I have the political right to ask you. After your political acquisition and Minister Darka Horvat, you've placed the man who sits here today, around whom she's more unknown than about the differential equation, the man who left high-level managerial incomes in order to, as you say, black man on the restoration. This man has a lot of, uh, our current minister's, uh, speculative questions. He's wondering if he's been trading any privileged information. I believe this is the beginning of his term of office that does not encourage our citizens. There's a lot of dubiosis and unknowns, but there's probably a lot of answers that you know about questions about, questions that you know how to answer. Prime Minister, you said you spoke to the minister before he became minister. I'm curious, you didn't do the background check, but I'm curious about what you asked him, and what he said gave you the answer that you stood behind him so tightly after that answer and took full responsibility. for Minister Paladin. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103811	Here's the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103812	Thank you, well-respected representative Posavec. I am glad that you are sure that we will remain, that we will be doing the mandate by the end of the two weeks it will be longer than any government in the history of modern Croatia and I appreciate that you respect it and will accompany us from the opposition benches for the next two and a half years of our work. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to quote that I said he'd be "black," be a little careful with those words, I never use it, or I'd have thought of using the word "black." That's not very nice. Minister Paladin is here for sure there will be questions for him today, he will talk about what he is doing in the restoration. You see, when we were thinking about who to be the minister of construction, spatial planning and state property, then we were due to a key topic, and this is the issue of restoration that first went with a man who has my respect which is a coalition partner, who is a man who knows the government well, who is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, then everyone came down on him that there is a politician of general practice and how he's going to do it. Then we are likely to listen to what experts say and reach out to people in practice for a man who has experience in the domain of construction, in the domain of project management, in the private sector, in the realisation of projects, and now that we've appointed him with it again, it's not good. So if you put someone who's a politician, who's got legitimacy, who's part of the parliamentary majority that's wrong, if you put someone from the private sector who doesn't understand any of my own kuna as far as I understand, he hasn't earned any money in the state sector, and he's been talking to me about everything that he has to explain and justify, and that's how much I realize before I go into office and posting his property card, he's done consulting with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, then that's it. The fact that the media will be interested in his private property is also fine, it's also democracy. He'll answer to that. But he was not brought in for it, he was brought in to dynamicize the process of reconstruction, any public infrastructure, any private houses, buildings, any Zagreb, any Banovine that was his task. And on the other hand, I asked him what I was asking him, if when you're being exposed, and you know, the bliss of anonymity, that's what I'm saying to everyone who doesn't come up a little above the water, and then see what it means when people are exposed and how many questions are asked and what's being questioned. This will lead in the long run and this is already happening to reduce the quality of the total mass of people who will even want to deal with politics. So it's not just about us that's elsewhere, it happens, it's plastically visible because just a part of people don't want it, why would they expose themselves. He came from the private sector, he exposed himself, he's young, he's full of energy, he's exposed five points to dynamicizing the reconstruction process, we've had a series of meetings of the entire government, all the resolutions involved. As you know, I have ensured that the European Solidarity Fund can be spent longer than it would be normal, and this is an incentive for us to address with these sources and other sources a question that unfortunately happened to all of us, and whose recovery will last for years. And I have great expectations of him, it's up to him to interpret everything about his property because it has nothing to do with you or me, and I don't care. What I care, I don't care if it solves and speeds up the process of reconstruction and other topics, whether they're construction, whether they're spatial or state-owned. property. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103813	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103814	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable Prime Minister. So you just in your answer confirmed what I said at the very beginning, here today you brought your team, the government of the Republic of Croatia, to the head. It's probably in this composition we see for the last time, you probably have high hopes in them, and you probably have replacements, but the question is what are those bench replacements actually going to bring to Croatia? The question is what this reconstruction that we all expect, which you announced after Easter and which you may now be prolonging and after the work holiday will bring to Croatia because obviously only you know this to the prime minister, is that, at this point, through the answer you have actually given me. You said that everything that's going on in the government is a credit to you, so it's really amazing how wide you're giving yourself credit that you've secured the funds from the eu fund, that you've extended them. I am only extremely sorry that until this extension of the deadline had to come, I am extremely sorry that today people still live in containers and inhumane conditions, I am extremely sorry that from this acceleration that we are all waiting for nothing. Spring's here, so how did we start the question is, what's next for us? We still have a non-functional government, when I say to a non-functional government, because I say it to some ministers, vice presidents, more indictments and more things that are not suitable for highly developed democracy. And so at the end of what Minister Paladino can't tell us where he's from, he can't tell him where the first million come from, and we can read it from the media and after all that you've said and what we're witnessing is the best way to do it. New elections. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103815	Let's go to the 5th issue of Representative Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj asks the Minister of Tourism and Sports Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103816	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Dear Minister Brnjak. Data on the number of arrivals and overnight stays of tourists during this extended weekend are extremely successful and show that we are on a very good journey and that we can expect a good tourist season. But there won't be any results if we don't have workers. Publicly available data in the tourist sector currently lacks between 30 and 35,000 workers and if amendments to the Law on Foreigners of Registration for Work Licences are simplified in practice there are still gaps which slow down the process of issuing permits and hiring foreigners. My question is, what is meant to be done to address this problem, or to enable the modernisation and issuing of work permits and to speed up communication between stakeholders of this process, and what are these measures that are planned to be implemented to ensure labour in the tourism sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103817	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103818	Thank you very much, President. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been taking all the time a series of measures to facilitate employment in the tourist sector, primarily through the Foreign Law and the abolition of quotas, as you have mentioned, and thus also to abolish the labour market attestation for deficiting interests, and what is now already launched together in the cooperation of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, MUP, HZZ, Ministry of Labour, is a digital system that allows online application and application of the license systems themselves, so about 15 days. What remains to be done are checks, but all that will be further through the MUP, therefore and is already being done is that according to those police officers who have a much larger number of demands that they are strengthened and administratively, so also informatively. What is also in the process and procedures are amendments and additions to the Labour Act that are discussed, so it also negotiates with trade unions the possibility of additional work and increasing the number of additional hours of additional work. What is the most important part of what the Ministry of Tourism and Sport is doing or has already started to apply is the amount of scholarship, the scholarship itself for our scholarships, so in the beginning that amount of scholarship was 1,200 kuna, we have now increased it to 2,000. Thus, we have increased the double number of our scholarships is very important to our young scholarships, high school students, so that they can have adequate scholarships, so that they can deal with tourism themselves, and thus we have increased the number of entrepreneurs themselves involved, given that they are tripartite contracts between students, scholarshiprs and entrepreneurs themselves, and thus we provide a long-term number of people on the domestic labour market who will be able to be included in the tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103819	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103820	I would just add, given the current situation in the labour market and the needs of employers in tourism, it would be necessary to improve the mechanisms of more flexible employment and to eliminate all obstacles to the issue of residence and work permits, and to hire seasonal workers because, with the offer offered and the content and all the efforts around the tourist season, we must work to achieve results, and these results can be with the workers that we have employed in the tourist sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103821	Now Agent Ivan Kirin will ask Health Minister William Berosha, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103822	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister. The question of the respected Minister Beros. The pandemic caused huge damage to people's health because covid-19 had moved the other diseases aside. Do you have a plan to combat an increase in oncology patients who announce that they are the result of an epidemic, but we know that the fact that the number of cancer patients is the same as the acute and current coronary health situation has led to many not being diagnosed or not being treated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103823	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103824	I would like to thank Mr. President HS, the honourable parliamentary representative, the distinguished MPs and the MPs. Well, we're painfully aware, and we've been indicating all along that this pandemic epidemic has disrupted the normal course of health. However, the government and the ministry have found ways and ways to adapt to new circumstances since the beginning of the pandemic. You also testify that from this point on several occasions we have said that continued permanent and available health care has been maintained for all those urgent oncological and chronic patients. This was our task because we recognized this as a certain poor option from the early beginnings of the pandemic, except in that short time lockdown and the National Prevention Programmes as the bearers of our fight against cancer and malignant diseases were constantly being implemented. The fact is, and we're witnessing a recent these days on Narcissus Day that the mortality of individual tumours, specifically breast cancer, has been reduced by 25% due to the National Prevention Programmes. So I am extremely happy and pleased that despite the pandemic, we have preserved the continuity of national preventive programmes. Furthermore, I'll say the following, we waited a long time, finally and welcomed the strategic framework against cancer by 2030, he came to life, he was adopted in this home. By the end of the year, we expect the adoption of two new strategic documents, which is the National Strategy for the Development of Mental Health and the National Strategy for Action on Dependence. These are all strategies that we have long been waiting for, despite the crisis they are founded and they will live. That it is not just a list of beautiful desires it also speaks of an action plan for oncological diseases for the next three-year period, which very detailedly points to the need to renew oncological equipment for the need for the construction of an oncology network and oncological database precisely to strengthen prevention, diagnostics and treatment of cancer. Furthermore, the goal of this government is to change the paradigm, to patients other than due attention and health care services, and to give them the opportunity to actively care for their health, so prevention has no alternative. It is precisely in certain reform steps that we introduce targeted systematic reviews for certain groups of citizens, the population in terms of age, given the gender and other characteristics of a particularly premarital situation that will improve prevention because we know that it is better to prevent it than to treat it. In this context, we are starting to think about the health system, and I also want to tell you that I am almost certain that during the pandemic we have done everything, that all our patients are not only urgent, chronic and oncologically exercising the right to health care. That there were certain disorders not only in the Republic of Croatia, but there have been around the world. But I think the Croatian health system has shown its strength and elasticity and the ability to adapt and responded well to these challenges. However, we are aware of the potential dangers, the development of pandemics and cancers and mental health disorders. That is why more than half a year or a year ago, two expert committees were established by the Ministry of Health, consisting of the best experts to take care of how to reduce damage in the oncology segment and in the segment of mental illness. It is therefore up to them to develop a professional background, and the ministry will continue to insist on such a path towards resolving the problem. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103825	Your Honor, I'd like you to take your leave of absence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103826	... which has been exhausted to all of us and to the Croatian public shows the concern of the Ministry and the Croatian Government for the current and acute situations that occur as well as health care, but such situations, except for health and health, are there others where the Government of course gives its pain and effort with ministers. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103827	The seventh question of MP Ruzica Vukovac will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103828	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, given the news that Russia's Sberbank has sold its share in Forten's Hungarian Indotek group these days in the Croatian political public has been almost undetected, I find it important to ask you whether it is acceptable for you to see the fact that the position of entrepreneurs from our neighbouring country of Hungary is strengthened at the expense of Croatian economy, because after taking over, it will be an impact in energy, and I am talking about taking over INA by the Hungarians, and then I am talking about banking about taking over the OTP Bank now Hungarians will also become leaders in the agricultural-food sector. On the other hand, it is not only about the participation of the Forten Group itself, but also about the takeover of a large regional trade network. So I'm talking about Konzum and Mercator. I also have to ask you who is currently processing a total of 32839 ha and in whose interest Croatia's most fertile plains while parallel cattlemen each day give us their cows at the slaughterhouse because they cannot reach the land for the production of feed. And I also think that Croatian citizens are interested in when this land will return to Croatian national interests, because unfortunately Croatia does not have enough food production for its own purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103829	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103830	Thank you, well-respected MP Vukovac. You know, and the whole public knows that Sberbank was first a believer and then became a co-owner, i.e. Forten stockholder. It is well known to both you and the public that they have been trying to sell their share in the company for a very long time. In these circumstances, especially in the last few months, given Russia's aggression against Ukraine, given the regimes of restrictive measures adopted practically throughout the Western world at the expense of Russian financial entities, we also believe that this decision by Sberbank to sell 43% of the stake in Fortenova, which is the Croatian company in fact very good and very beneficial. It is now unburdened on the market by any dominant image of Russian co-ownership. In such a short time, Sberbank decided to sell its share to a Hungarian investor, these are not decisions affected by the Croatian government. The Croatian government has had its task, here it is now, so here is five years from the crisis in Agrokor. She was tasked with ensuring that the company survives, survives suppliers, survives family farms with it. And we did it at no cost to the state, no cost to the budget. The rest is I think today I'm not 100% sure, but more than 50,000 jobs within Fortenova and the companies that are in its system are in Croatia, which in the countries of the region. All the suppliers stayed on their feet, no one failed, everyone's working. The OPGs have been charged, the company gradually returns to those normal market conditions and status that it once had, and all thanks to the intervention that we made at the time. So from the point of view of us when we look at the whole of the activity in these circumstances, this is a good move. This is a good move. Keep in mind that there are more than 30% of Fortenovo and Croatian companies in co-ownership and that no key decisions can be made without them for the company's functioning. And I think that's good, and as far as agriculture is concerned, the agricultural segment of the state has leverage. The state has leverage concessions, the state has a lever of policy measures, which through agriculture, which through other resors. And we will continue and strengthen the Croatian village and strengthen agricultural production, protect the income of farmers, ensure both availability and fresh and domestic food are ultimately all the tax reforms that we have just carried out with the tax discharge of fresh, fresh we could put in Croatian but we put in fresh. And the measures we've taken, and here's the Law on COMASATION, Investments through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, through the multiannual financial framework, through rural development, through agricultural policy, I think that with these special programmes that I'm sure I'll be talking about more today, Minister Vukkovic, we're trying to help the Croatian farmer, the Croatian peasant, but also to the Croatian fisherman, and we did so in this 5 billion package. Because of the rise in energy prices, and we will continue to do so. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103831	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103832	I thank you for your response, but forgive me, Prime Minister, but I cannot participate in this crucial agreement in which we should pretend that everything is fine while a stranger is actually possessing all the most important resources in the country, not at the time of the threat of war, not at the time of the potential threat of food supply, and in no way respecting the fact that this is actually the country that our defenders have shed their blood for. I don't know if you mentioned the OPGs again, I don't know if you have information, but there are OPGs that aren't fully settled within the settlement, so some of them have been given specific knowledge of their claims for the example of the man who handed over Agrokor the drowned bulls only 1.4% of the total claim, so they are now in the European Court of Human Rights, where they seek the difference or struggle for their claims while parallel Mrs. Irena Weber, who left Agrokor after the signing of the settlement in October 2019 and today receives a fee and this monthly fee, and it is calculated that it is the sums of 50,000 kuna. I don't think that's right because someone can get a hat and a hand, and someone can't charge for their hard and hard work. It's not okay, of course it's not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103833	Eighth issue, MP Miro Totgergeli will be asked by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103834	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Ministers of Economy and Sustainable Development have long witnessed, even for more than a year, the rise in energy prices in world markets. However, even though these prices grew our citizens in the Republic of Croatia up to 1.4, they paid the same prices of electricity and gas all the time, although in the countries of our environment they did not. Since Russia's invasion into Ukraine, however, it's no longer just a matter of what the energy price is, but it's also a question of whether we have enough energy. Knowing how much Europe used gas from Russia then the question is whether we have enough gas in Croatia. The fact is that one good part of the gas we're getting right from the LNG terminal, that's the same LNG terminal for which you were attacked here a few years ago in the assembly that this project is unnecessary for the Republic of Croatia, that this terminal will be untapped and asked half-empty. Now I'm asking you what the Republic of Croatia would look like today if we didn't have LNG terminals, I'm asking you and if we have enough supplies of energy in the Republic of Croatia and I'm wondering what condition the building of the underground gas warehouse in the Grubish Polje is after I come from that city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103835	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103836	First of all, good morning to you all, and thank you very much, Mr. Agent Totgergeli, for your question. Therefore, the energy situation in the Republic of Croatia is at present significantly better in most EU member states, both on the electricity market and on the oil market, and finally on the gas market. We can thank it for the fact that, on the one hand, the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, above all, have significantly facilitated the situation in relation to a whole series of EU member states and that is something that I believe is in my opinion, and I believe that you will agree that a very good government action in the context of controlling electricity prices, as well as gas, because it is necessary to increase prices that have occurred several times lower than those that occurred in the largest number of EU member states. As far as energy is concerned in the Republic of Croatia, we are in a situation that at this point 80% of electricity needs are coming from our own production. Dominated by the production of Croatian electricity industry, one part from the production of renewable energy from privileged producers. As far as natural gas and its sufficientness are concerned, natural gas in the Republic of Croatia as you know comes partly from domestic production. This domestic production will grow in the coming years for you discoveries and the beginning of exploitation in certain fields. The rest is imported, however, by contrast with the largest number of EU member states, there is an alternative supply direction LNG terminal on the island of Krk that allows us to make sure that even in the event of further escalation in Eastern Europe, the Republic of Croatia will have sufficient supply of natural gas. As for oil derivatives and here we have a very specific and favourable position relative to the largest number of EU member states, and it stems from the fact that our terminal also in Omislj on the island of Krk, JANAF terminal is currently one of the most significant import points for this part of Europe for oil derivatives and oil derivatives. So, with all three key energys of the Republic of Croatia at this point, it's good, if we're going to combine the prices of these energys, I'm thinking, in particular, of gas towards households, or electricity from households, we're standing extremely well in relation to the rest of the EU. In the end, you asked for the Rough Field since you represent this electoral unit of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, so in the second month of this year construction permits were issued for part of the construction phase of this gas storage facility. In the coming year, I am convinced it will bring about the construction of the warehouse itself, which will increase our natural gas storage capacity, and precisely in order to reach crisis situations by about 20% compared to the existing one. In this way our energy system will at least be rounded up in this part of the infrastructure facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103837	Councilman, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103838	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. So we can conclude we have enough energy in the Republic of Croatia, and prices are much more favourable than in some other EU countries. And now what I've been asking about gas storage in the Grubish field, I have to conclude that unlike many local administrations, when they start building some energy facilities, some of these local administrations tend to raise virtually a rebellion against the construction of such energy facilities. In the Grubišni polje it is quite the opposite and local self-government and citizens of the Grubišna polje are waiting for gas storage to be built because we estimate that this is important for the town of Grubišno polje itself and gives the perspective of development and the town of Grubišni polje, but what is even more important is that it gives one greater security in gas distribution or security of gas supply throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103839	Let's go to Question 9, Representative Sandra Bencic will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103840	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, Prime Minister. First of all, I congratulate you, as well as all those who participate in this charade, on yet another classic Croatian antitheme called Perković-Mustac and the entertainment of political options over the fate of these two people these days shows how much more in this House there is no longer what is called public interest because the fate of these two people is more important than thousands of those of our citizens who have been waiting for the restoration, who have been sleeping in containers for two years and who will probably welcome the third Christmas also in containers. Your government has many reasons why you should now rise, go and call the election. First because there are people here who are being investigated. Secondly, because you've put Parliament in a position that we don't really know who the minister is and why we even ask people questions when we don't know if they'll be able to execute it tomorrow or not. However, the worst thing you must go for is the fact that you are personally responsible for the fact that you have built a total of zero replacement houses for the victims of the earthquake. Two years later, if you'd sent Grumf out of Alan Ford, he'd have built more. And to all of this on the fact that we have catastrophic results of restoring the initial value of zero houses, two years after zero houses, you choose a minister who has to deal with his own affairs for a month instead of dealing with restoration You chose him, and you are responsible for it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103841	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103842	Dear Representative Bencic. I have to admit that I don't know if you're following the media, if you're reading the newspaper that we have with Perkovic and the Mustac, what you're looking at, looking at those who support you, don't look at the Pantovčak there is your orchestra, there's your synopsis, your script. You're like okay, you paint together, you support the same vision and the same ideals. So, this shameless twisting of thesis is all yours, we're not dealing with it because we thought of it, the actors who support you, not us. It's a good thing you let it go, you're a colleague of the law that you have to agree to know that it's up to you, not us. It's a very important detail, and besides, we don't have any jurisdiction, and you'll be sure to welcome an epilogue of whatever he may be. As for government issues, reconstructions, your calling choices, that's not how it works. You can sing there for two more years, you won't see an extraordinary election, I don't see why. So many challenges we've faced for the past four years, five, six as many as we already have and here we are. Look at all the challenges we've had, have we solved them all, are we on our feet? We did. What did you do for Zagreb? What did you do for Zagreb? To hear what your resume is which, a year has passed what you have done with regard to the reconstruction of Zagreb. We pressured you to move, you have more than 100m euros in the EUSF for infrastructure, but the ministers there had to draw how to declare EUSF funds. Don't laugh. It's true. Ask the ministers standing here. That would be good for the public to know, not to transfer responsibility to the government. What did you do for some assets that might have come from outside? Did you negotiate with the World Bank, did you negotiate with the EU, with the IAB, the CBRD with the Council of Europe Development Bank? What did you do? Nothing. Therefore, your thesis on Perkovic-Mustach as the responsibility of the right side of the assembly is ridiculous that I cannot be any more ridiculous. Your recovery resume is brilliant. Your question about reconstruction, and why don't you ask the ministers anything you want? Ministers are while ministers are under the law, you can ask them whatever you want and answer them as others ask them questions. If you're not creative enough to ask questions, don't ask. As for the restoration and Minister Paladin had already asked Mrs. Posavec the guilty, so I answered her. The minister will answer his private matters. It has nothing to do with what his mission is, and it'll fit as long as it takes. And when it's being questioned as it's all being questioned, we're used to it, it's part of democracy, it's part of the role of the media, it's part of some other orchestras not only of the one I've been answering to Mr. Zekanovic. But that's how you play an online communication democratic game, so he'll play it. And it is his job to speed up reconstruction in Zagreb, both in Banovina and private houses and several residential buildings and public buildings, whether they are in health care, whether they are in education, education, that they are institutions. It's all the work he has to do. He presented the plan, the government will support it and other competent ministers have the task of making their pain in this regard. You and your contribution to this will be decided by the Zagrebers for whatever, you will see how thrilled they will be with this. Maybe even with the staffing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103843	Thank you. Here's my colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103844	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you mentioned creativity, I must tell you what all your answers are creative in. Your response that the private matter of Minister Paladin is that it has 10% stake in the Kukara project, which is also a strategic project of the government, specifically his ministry, which is responsible for managing state property, is his private matter. That's a very creative answer. You have a very creative answer that you as prime minister imagine negotiating with the EU for the funds that we will receive from the EU funds. Well, that's unspeakable! Well, no prime minister has done it in the history of the EU. I congratulate you on that. Your creativity comes to terms when you've already been so innovatively negotiating that you've been for five months, but for five months without the Director of the Central Finance and Contracting Agency, which the same police took you five months ago, and then you're creatively looking for a new director, two competitions have failed and you can't find him. As you can't find new ministers, because if you could here, you'd watch a bunch of characters with whom you'd hang out next year for maybe a year and a half. And one more thing, you say Mr. Paladin has experience in construction. What exactly did he build? What did the man build? Well, the man successfully pulled the property out of IGH through a partner contract with the owner on which it will be charged and which is illegal. He did not pay his taxes, and his entire CV much more corresponds to the director of a high-risk fund than the Minister of Construction. Because believe me, I've been going around the areas in Dubrovnik that he's been building. There's nothing there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103845	Thank you, counselor. Let's go to 10 questions, representative Dragana Jeckov asked him by Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103847	Thank you. Dear Minister, we have yet another tourist season ahead of us that we hope will be successful. This implies that we will need more workers in tourism. According to some forecasts, it's more than 30,000. At the same time, we read in the media that there will be significant changes in the education system that will now be adapted to labour market needs. If we all know this together, tell me what are the reasons why certain professional professions are abolished, such as waiters, pastries, hotel and tourist technicians, butchers that happen in individual schools. If we're talking right now about deficiting and over-needed occupations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103848	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103849	Dear Madam MPs, vocational education is a rather complex part of education and what is, say, an absurdity in the Republic of Croatia against public perception that students should be directed as much as possible after completing their primary school in vocational education is exactly different from how this vocational education works at the level of let's say the EU but also wider. In Croatia, about 70% of primary school graduates enter vocational education, some form of vocational education, while only 30% are enrolled in high school programmes. At Europe level, this is exactly around 55% of students enrolled in high school programmes, and 45% of vocational education, and of these professionals only 4 to 6% continued later on high school education. In Croatia, out of those 70% who enroll in vocational education, almost 90% pass state education exams and enroll some form of higher education. So, they don't basically end up on the labour market, but they continue schooling, which is not the happiest solution. Of course, they can enroll anyone who wants to, but later problems arise in higher education. In this segment of students or students coming from the system of vocational education, we have the highest number of those who give up further study and those who repeat years because of that part of the general education course are still not as immersed in vocational education as they are in high school. We also made a commitment through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan to change that trend a little bit more in favour of the high school programmes, so we want to stimulate the enrollment of children over a certain period of time so that it rises to at least 35%. And in vocational education, we have to make a whole series of changes as well as rounding and increasing individual classes, because at this point the average classes are somewhere on 19 students, the optimum is 22, and the minimum number of students should be 20, and the maximum number of students should be 26, so we are below the minimum prescribed by the state pedagogical standard. On the other hand, when planning for enrolment and school programmes, then the number of students leaving elementary schools in the 8th grade should be taken into account, as well as the number of children, as well as the availability of the programme. We can't afford to have a whole series of fragmented similar related programs that include one, two, or three children. Of course, the registration plan, which is now in the public debate, has been done in collaboration with both schools and counties, or founders. The proposal was to plan somewhere on some 46.5 thousand children although this school year 39 thousand students will come out of primary schools, of course always planning more because of repeaters and crossings etc., however, this much planning is not, of course not good. When you speak or when you mention tourist employees and the like, then we are also not just rounding and centralizing in certain stronger centres as regards the implementation of the programme and what the labour market tells us. i.e. stock exchanges [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you Minister, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103850	Frausen. Let's go to this obvious esteemed colleague of Jack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103851	Mr. Minister, from your answer, I conclude that you did not seem to have been informed that your ministry has just approved one such suspension that happens at the Marko Babic High School in Vukovar when we are about to lift these interests such as delicacies, butchers, hotel and tourist technicians, and imagine irony being lifted, of course, by those departments in which teaching takes place according to model A in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. My duty is as counsel if you have not already been informed by your professional services that I warn you of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103852	Now, as 11th MP Goran Ivanovic, he will ask the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Natashi Tramišak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103853	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Actually, my question is very brief, but I'm going to use, of course, these two minutes and start a little bit from there, from there. In these challenging times we've lived in the past 2 years. Of course, it was not easy to work, and above all, I think of our local leaders and regional leaders who have faced the challenges of the projects they have started and who want to realize that the end from which they come and where they are staying would be as good as possible. But while staying here in HS I often experienced from colleagues and colleagues sitting here in HS that Croatia is the worst, that there is no worse country than Croatia when it comes to EU funds that we are at the bottom, that we are not withdrawing enough funds, that we do not have enough of this desire and will that these funds come and merge into the budgets of the JLS, and finally the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course not, all those who give themselves a little effort, who want to go around the field, who want to see what is happening in our beautiful country called Croatia and which is quite different maybe than it is here in HS, when it comes out, it is much wider, and therefore my question to the distinguished Minister Tramišak will be exactly that. In the last 2 years. Croatia has done this part of the job significantly when it comes to EU funds and has skipped many economically stronger countries than Croatia, but it seems to me that in the Croatian public it is not enough or perceived, nor articulated, so here is a moment and opportunity not to boast about it but to realistically say what figures are and what our local and regional self-government leaders have achieved, but ultimately the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these 2nd years.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103854	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103855	Thank you, Your Honor, President HS and the Honorable Representatives. Dear Representative Ivanovic, thank you for asking, so it is a good time to emancipate the theme of withdrawing funds to the Republic of Croatia, especially in moments when you have stated even though times have been challenging behind us, we have stepped up the use of EU funds. We had 10.7 billion euros at our disposal in the period 2014-2020, as is already known. We are currently recording a percentage of the use of these 10.7 billion euros, 69% and 7.4 billion euros, respectively. We know in particular that it has been since 2016. start making more intensive use of funds from funds, and when we speak in the context of these last 2.g. 35% of this total allocation was used. What we've done in the last less, here's what I can say less than 2.g. It is an strengthening of inter-resorship communication, so it is very important to cooperate both with the Ministry of Regional Development and with all other ministries that work intensively with users on the realisation and implementation of valuable projects. Of course, communication with beneficiaries of grants has been strengthened, we have freed certain procedures, especially for non-compulsants of the Public Procurement Act, so for our entrepreneurs who are among the fastest users of these funds, but what is very important is that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Fund for Co-financing of the implementation of projects with more than a billion and 100 million kuna and in the last year has helped both local and regional self-government. So all of this together has contributed to the very results that we have today, so we are no longer at the start of the EU on the use of funds, we are currently in the 19th place, we hope to continue to grow as we have set out in the dynamics itself. What is important to point out is that we have skipped over these two years 8 countries, and a total of 9 Member States, so there are more developed countries than you mentioned in the United Kingdom, which is still being led in this old perspective, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Italy and Luxembourg itself. The current percentage is within the limits, or we are the EU average, and I believe that in the last year and a half as much as we have left to exploit this old perspective, we are actually going to speed up the dynamics even more. So once again, I thank all my colleagues and all the ministries who have followed this communication from the Ministry of Regional Development and who, by further dynamics and by increasing their activities, has accelerated this absorption of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103856	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103857	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to be a little shorter here's what it's all about. I'm not gonna use both of them for two minutes. I'm going to say one big one, or I'm going to express my satisfaction with what I think is important. When something bad happens then the government is absolutely to blame for everything, the biggest burden, and when something good happens in Croatia, it happens by accident, and that's how it fell from the sky, so the government has nothing to do with it. Yes, it is a great credit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it should be pointed out and it should be discerned, the ministries that are responsible for EU funds, but it should also be thanked, of course, to all local leaders of all local and regional self-government units that work with their teams to projects that are making this entire envelope much more generous. And what I'm going to say for the end is that Croatia in these here are soon going to be 9 years in plus 55 billion kuna. I think it is a figure that shows for itself how important it is that we are a member of the EU, that we use EU funds and that we make our beautiful homeland even more beautiful and desirable, of course, for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103858	Now MP Kresimir Ackar will ask the question to the minister of sea, transport and infrastructure Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103859	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Minister of the Honorable President of the Assembly, Honored colleague Butkovic, we are particularly witnessing the importance of continuing to build the highway Zagreb – Sisak. Many of the benefits it has brought in itself and reflected in economic terms, reflected by the accompanying infrastructures that come along the freeway, these are bypasses, these are walking paths, these are cycling trails and the arrivals of what is associated with such a single project, these are logistics centres, these are business areas and in economic terms for each city, the unit of local and regional self-government represents one rebirth. What our businessmen are asking is for a reason what is the final deadline and what is the final conclusion of this project now which is in the construction of the Zagreb – Sisak highway, so please exact deadlines in connection with this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103860	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103861	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, as regards the construction of the highway to Sisak, first of all, I would like to say that we are currently investing slightly more than 25 billion kuna in transport infrastructure in the territory of Croatia and ending the highway to Sisak is one of the most important projects in the mandate of this government, since last year, at the very session of the government, we made a decision or conclusion on the completion of the highway construction, carried out the public procurement procedure, and in February of this year, Croatian highways completed a contract on the construction of the highway to Sisak, the total value of 281 million kuna without VAT which we started and, with the presence of the Prime Minister, visited the works very well. I should point out another important thing that Croatian highways are the first Croatian highway project recently financed not from credit funds but from regular funds, since we have completed the financial restructuring of Croatian highways and the entire road sector. A new connection will also be built as part of the highway, i.e. the new Žažina node, which will be connected by Petrinja and Clay on the highway. That's another 40 million kuna, so we're going to parallel to the construction of a highway that should be completed for two years, two years from the signing of the contract. So somewhere in the spring of 2024 you have except a date on Sisak and a quality date on the, Petrinje and Clay on the highway. In parallel with this Croatian road, they are conducting a project of new entrance to the town of Sisak as well as a connection on the highway that includes a new bridge on Audrey since the existing building was built in the 30s of the last century and the works are also going very well and should be completed as things stand until the summer of next year. So with these two major projects carried out by the Croatian highways and the Croatian road, the town of Sisak, but also Petrinja and Glina will have a quality connection on the highway and connection to Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103862	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103863	Dear Minister, thank you for your response. Along with thanks to you, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given that we have felt the benefits of this share between Zagreb and Sisak as one city that can bring in economic terms, in the infrastructure sense and the development of a city. We also want to point out one important importance, that the completion of this highway will not only link unfortunately the area which has been destroyed and communicated with them, but will open up the possibility and perspective of the unit of local and regional self-government to be realized in economic terms, to be achieved in an entrepreneurial sense, and I am sure that they will take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103864	The 13th issue of MP Ivan Budalic raises the issue to regional development and EU funds Minister Natashi Tramišak. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103865	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, the members of the government...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103866	Just don't do the microphone, someone needs to turn off, is, here it is, can, can continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103867	Do I want to start over or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103868	Eight seconds longer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103869	Oh, okay, okay. In the light of the implementation of cohesion policy in the financial period 2014-2020. a programme of integrated physical, economic and social regeneration of young small towns in war-affected areas carried out in five deprived pilot areas is being implemented. Given the possible application of the Imotski City intervention plans with surrounding municipalities, I refer the question to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Ms Tramišak. What can Imotski and its surrounding municipalities that have the status of an assisted area expect in the context of using eu funds in the next 2021-2017 financial perspective? Can we expect special funds for the Imot region given our status as assisted and mountainous areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103870	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103871	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, MP, thank you for asking. So the new programming period 2021-2027 is just ahead of us. You mentioned the period 2014-2020 and the pilot of the area or the programme of regeneration of small cities affected by the war which are also in the status of the deprived area. In addition to these five cities that have used in the old perspective separate allocations of funds for their investments in their economic growth and development, we have come to the conclusion that unfortunately many more cities that should be covered by this very special instrument and measures are needed. Therefore, Croatia has many more units of local self-government that have the status of an assisted area or a deprived area, in total according to the latest index of 304 units of local self-government. With this approach in the new programming period, i.e. in the new generation of programming documents, enlargement into all assisted areas and mountainous areas and the Imot region will have additional opportunities to invest or use European funds for their projects. There will no longer be a limited amount in certain cities or regions, but the use of funds from all ESI funds will be more focused on those parts of Croatia that are below average developed. When we say this in the context of cohesion policy of the 14 billion euros, this part of cohesion policy, or the 5.3 billion-euro Regional Development Fund, has additionally allocated around 472m euros only to assisted and mountainous areas. So, one completely new approach in the programming process over the last year and a half days we expect more investment in these areas that need additional support and greater use of EU funds. However, when we compare these cities that had intervention plans in the past and used this form of support, some 140 million kunas compared the results of similar cities, we came up with data that it was better to have unlimited amounts and that those cities that did not have their own special intervention plan had more significant use of the financial envelope. For example, when we talk about the town of Bela Manastir in Osijek-Baranja County, it used 253 million euros of grants in total while the city of Djakovo, which was considered in the context of these assisted areas in the new period, was only 572, so it is clear that those who do not have a limited amount, can take a more significant opportunity to use for their funds plus what we have already done during the programming process, namely using new tools for undeveloped mountain-mounted and rural areas. I believe that Imotska krajina will know how to take advantage of these new opportunities to have quality and ready projects, and we have shared this several times and communicated and you will give more than what you have in the past period, and we are talking about a total of 200 million kunas for the city of Imotski and about 100 million kuna for the rest of the Imotski landscape that you will make a more significant step and that it will no longer be 300 but perhaps double the resources. The funds are available, we expect a new generation of programming documents in the second quarter of this year, everything is on the European Commission. So, due to the recovery and resilience mechanism, the European Commission has slowed the approval of programming documents to all EU Member States, but this is now being updated and we believe it will be completed over the coming months, even the European Commission in this final negotiation process praised the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create such an approach to undeveloped areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103872	Thank you. Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103873	I'm pleased with your response, dear Minister. It is important to point out that EU funds for the Dalmatian Zagora areas are crucial for the survival and survival of our population. In any case, if you claim that these funds are not limited by the basis of those preparations that we have worked in recent years, it will certainly be a new possibility for our development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103874	The 14th issue of Commissioner Renata Sablar-Dračevac asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103875	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. And my heart is important, there is one severe although a rare heart disease called transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy, but two types of this disease, an inherited one affecting younger people and not an heir that occurs in people in the sixth decade. But the malignancy of this disease is that from diagnosis to death, it is no more than four years. For this rare disease, there is a targeted medicine and it can be obtained on the burden of health insurance in 14 EU countries as well as in Slovenia, not in Croatia. Most people in Imotski and the surrounding area are suffering, and between 140 and 150 are believed to be present, all in ten are diagnosed with this disease, two of which are being diagnosed with this target medicine. The Croatian Association for Rare Diseases launched the campaign "And My Heart Is Important" with the aim of coming up with a new targeted drug on the list of expensive HZZO medicines because this is the only way for all ten of them to get the necessary medicine and the opportunity to extend their lives. If that drug doesn't get on the HZZO list right away, none of these people will be alive in four years. What do you intend to do to prevent that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103876	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103877	Thank you very much, highly respected representative Sablar-Dračevac. As far as this particular medicine is concerned, what I know is that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and its committees are evaluating scientific evidence of this medicine. You know for a fact that the procedure is the same that we have increased the amount of funding in the budget of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance for especially expensive medicines and for rare diseases to the extent that I cannot compare it with any other government. I don't know exactly now, but I think we've come somewhere over two billion kunas of HZZO's budget just for expensive drugs and for rare diseases. What I can do, I can ask the Minister of Health who's here, let's see with the competent commission at which stage the evaluation process of this medicine is. It is particularly indicative of what you say is available in Slovenia, so we'll see what their practice is like. But the general trend of our government's conduct of HZZO, the expert committees were indeed expanding the scope of particularly expensive medicines. I think you're aware of that. It is a great cost for the budget, but on the other hand, if there is a small improvement in saved lives, a smile on the face of especially children, then we are all satisfied together, and about this particular medicine I will ask the minister to give you and the written notice at which stage we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103878	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103879	Thank you, Prime Minister. The answer made me very happy. It's about a relatively small number of people who need this medicine right now. So two get, eight more should get them. It’s about young people, it’s about people who have young children, “My heart is important too. ” It's a message from this campaign, and I hope it'll be on HZZO soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103880	Let's go to 15 questions, representative Luka Brcic will be asked by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103881	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with ministers and ministers. Dear Ministers Ćorić in Split-Dalmatia County currently have 6 agglomerations worth 4.3 billion kuna. A large number of these agglomerations are already in construction terms, so we can say that Split-Dalmatia County is a large site thanks to this project, and we see that the same thing is happening in many parts of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I have asked a number of citizens of the town of Sinja more precisely the towns of Brnaze which will be with the agglomeration of Sinj because we know the two lots are ok. But this third lot, due to the multiple competitions, has been repeated since the amount of money available has exceeded, so here I note that it is a highly vital area, an area of over 3,000 inhabitants and one of the most vital settlements in the town of Sinj. I am curious to see if these citizens of the city of Sinj will be able to find some real solution to the overall agglomeration of the city of Sinj in the context of even development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103882	The reply of the respected Minister Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103883	Thank you very much, Mr. Brcic, for your question. So, in the opening part you highlighted the fact that Split-Dalmatia County in this part is a large construction site with over four billion kuna projects in realisation, within six agglomerations. It's not just about the Split-Dalmatia County. With an exceptional commitment from representatives of Croatian Waters, and in collaboration with public-communal societies, i.e. water-communal societies in the area of Croatia. In the past four years, we have signed contracts for the realization of sixty-six agglomeration projects worth more than 25 billion kuna, and that is what delights. In this way I am sure in the coming years we will eventually come into a situation, first of all, that in most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia we have developed a network of public water supplies and a network of public drains. This will certainly be achieved as a result of the fact that from the alternative parts of the financial envelopes, I mean the National Recovery and Resistance Plan we were willing to open competitions to finance smaller projects. The first of 700 million kuna, last Thursday the second worth a billion kuna. So, the story with the construction of the water-communal network goes on and I am convinced that the water-communal sector will, above all, be one of the more powerful drivers of work on the one hand, i.e. the growth of gross domestic product. As for the specific agglomeration of Sinj which is the subject of your interest, I believe along with this other Trilj-Dicmo-Istok. Agglomeration Sinj, as you know, created in three lotions, has been approved in two lots and there the works have already begun. As for the third part of the works, I am talking about several contracts, further analysis of the documentation has been requested since the initial offers for works exceeded 70% of the estimated value and this analysis as I understand it was delivered several days ago in Croatian water, according to the information I have. It will be studied by experts of Croatian Waters and if this segment of works or its costs are done justified then there is no single reason not to close the procurement procedure in the coming period and finally that section in the Brnaz area that relates to Brnaze does not go into the works until the end of this year. Of course it will depend on the dynamics on the ground. We at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development have approached all agglomerations in the Republic of Croatia and their realisation in the same way, primarily as support. And once again I will emphasize Croatian waters have played here, play and will play a great positive role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103884	Honorable representative of Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103885	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer and I thank you for your engagement that this project will be as you said it yourself in fullness. Otherwise, the agglomeration project has greatly strengthened the quality of life of our citizens in the mentioned areas as well as throughout the Republic of Croatia because the construction of the sewerage system, water infrastructure and disposal is certainly something that is very important in a very special way in areas that are waterproof, and these areas and agglomerations that you mentioned in the Split-Dalmatia County area are largely part and water-protective areas. And it is also a significant contribution to these times when we have a variety of threats that many of our businesses, which many public firms are engaged in, above all, in the construction sector and this is another one of the benefits of European funds because we know that the importance of some of the exactly agglomeration is just being financed from the EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103886	16 questions will be asked by Branka Juričev Martinchev, a respected tourism and sports minister, Nikola Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103887	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-President, Minister, Minister of Tourism and Sports Mrs Brnjak, and we are happy to read and listen that during the Easter weekend we have achieved over 490,000 overnight stays, which has been an increase of 120% since the beginning of the year compared to last year, we have touched almost 95% of the nights of the record year 2019. For the first time, the Republic of Croatia from the recovery mechanism and the EU's resilience will be achieved and will receive 2,000, 2.2 billion kuna for tourism, 60% of which goes to the private sector, 40% to manage public tourism infrastructure. We have measures to preserve jobs that have greatly contributed to the preservation of labour in these facilities. New online system for login and importing labour, etc. However, while the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided 4.8 billion kuna to reduce energy prices is a great fear in the tourism sector that raising prices and inflation could affect our citizens' budget, so that it can raise fuel prices, and we are mostly a car destination to contribute to a slightly smaller number of arrivals and overnights as well as to the situation in Ukraine. I ask your opinion on the tourist season, what you expect and what all the ministry is doing to make these figures as good as possible and as good as possible in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103888	Dear Minister Nikola Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103889	Here's a thank you well-respected MP. So, from the beginning of the year to today as you said, we are on about 95% of tourist nights from 2019. This is one direction we want to go, which is all year round tourism, or brand Croatia's entire tourist destination, and these figures can be very pleased. And it is in this direction that you also mentioned these funds from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, so for the first time provided the grants for the tourism sector, which will primarily be one part for public tourist infrastructure, the second part for private tourist infrastructure. With these means, we raise the quality and competitiveness of Croatian tourism. The calls themselves will go to the third quarter as well as public tourist infrastructure will be calls related to raising quality in health tourism, wellness, spa, so that these funds can be used to raise quality in accommodation facilities, wellness, spa, restaurants around these special hospitals. For the first time, we made a full payment plan for all projects related to medical tourism. Also from public tourist infrastructure related to cultural heritage, with natural heritage, also with public tourist infrastructure related to active tourism where grants can be invested in sports recreation centres, basketball courts, tennis courts, adrenaline parks, so this entire segment. The second part will be connected to private tourist infrastructure where it will be with accommodation facilities, along with diversification of the tourist offer, the second call will also be in transition or transformation of private owners to small family hotels, and we have intended about 50 million kuna for this. Also, the third segment of the call will be linked to clusters and co-operation between research and the economic sector with 180m kuna. And the fourth segment will be connected, which is very important, along with digitisation where we connect to Croatian digital tourism, with the project to which we are now connected with the automatic management of destinations that will be enabled for all in Croatia and also upgrades, the third upgrade with business intelligence that will be used with the first part of Croatian digital tourism, the second segment of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and this third part of business intelligence that will allow our entrepreneurs to focus their investments more wisely. Also, as you know, the Eurobarometer has shown 82% of tourists want to travel more sustainablely and precisely they choose Croatia and because of natural beauty, environmental beauty and environments and what we want to say, certainly, when we say a sustainable segment, not only think about the ecological but also about the social, economic and social segment, and that is why we have created the mark of Croatia's sustainable tourism in the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, which is... Yours, or Croatia, of course. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the same label and also with all advantages, we visit the broadcasting markets with the director of the Croatian Tourist Board and are also preparing for this one tourist season, but what is certainly important to us is that this NPOO funding directs Croatia's development as an entire year's tourist destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103890	The MPs, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103891	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, thank you for your response and all that you do, the ministries and the entire government for preserving from jobs in the tourist and catering sector to the mitigation of the crisis due to the increase in energy prices, the preservation of jobs because tourism is one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia and it is very important to work on the recognition of Croatia as an entire year's destination, and especially sustainablely responsible destinations with a request that special attention be kept on how to secure labour in the catering sector, which is not only the concern of the Ministry of Tourism but should certainly be in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, and thank you for all tax exemptions with the appeal and request of the host to reconsider the reduction of VAT on the use of drinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103892	Thank you. The 17th question, Representative Peja Grbin will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103893	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, I know that you are currently busy reconstructing the government and I know that it is not easy for you to find someone who would agree to sit in this government and take part in the responsibility of, say, Mr. Paladin's hoaxes. I know it's not easy for you, and I know at this point this whole story with Mustac and Perkovic is coming as ordered, or maybe it's from you. I know this story makes you happy because you don't have to deal with real problems of living in the Republic of Croatia, you don't have to deal with what actually puts most of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens down. But we won't let you do this, we won't let you stay away from the ordered stories. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, two months ago, the government presented a package of measures to fight price growth, but unfortunately there has been an aggression on Ukraine since a number of new pressures, since then, that prices have continued to rise. Part of the measure that was also accepted in HS, which received unanimous support from MPs and MPs, unfortunately is not adequate. In these two months, the government has not done its job, probably because we don't know who will be sitting in that government tomorrow, you don't know it, don't know your colleagues and colleagues, nobody in this country knows, but it personally can't tell you about the responsibility you have, the responsibility to bring and propose measures that will make life easier for the citizens, and even those you've suggested as a supplement for the pensioners because of your lack of attention won't include all those to whom it should be intended. So I ask you, when will you finally have that reconstruction and will you move or start doing your job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103894	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103895	Dear Mr. Grbin, I see you've been put there at the end of the bench, that's also a lot of talk about the power of the SDP, and I must admit that a little after that last question of yours where you attacked Zvonko Frka-Petesic now that we found out that you were the one who used money for a separate life for years, he introduced himself as a humanitarian later, so the state's money donated to someone we don't know who, that I'm a little bit below the level that you're even finding the title that you're objecting to us. You should be silent for a year now that no one knows you exist and don't come here, you're tall, so people see you, forget what you've done, and watch out for it not as some simple advocate, although he is, everyone is important, and you're the president of the SDP and you're cold without blinking again to us. You still attacked me last time with your flock Milanovic, and I remembered what you were saying when I went to Ukraine, then you and he said we were sablatans, that what we do there, that we don't get foreign policy, but we'll trust your brilliant judgments and analysis. You're so rude and low that you're imputing our thesis that we ordered Perkovic and Mustac, so you're normal, what's wrong with you? Em, you're taking the money you wouldn't have, you should have, you don't donate state money to anyone, you don't know who you're puking about foreign political Ukraine, and you don't know what you're doing, you're orchestrating an initiative that's orchestrated on that side, you're transferring it to us as well as your colleague Bencic, even though I see in Zagreb the cheapest of those relationships going, so how are you not ashamed of yourself? Your colleagues of these less than the Social Democrats as many of you are there should be very ashamed and they should wonder if we are being led by a man with whom we are real in some election cycle we can or when elections come we will be under the barbarous fire of shame. That's, that's the point... As the wolf laughs, that's the point, that's the point, and that's why I have to admit it to me from these three nebulous thesiss you put on, I don't know which is worse than the worse. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for our measures for citizens, 5 billion kunas, social transfers to the most vulnerable, limiting the rise in electricity prices, limiting the rise in gas prices, limiting the rise in oil prices, supporting pensioners, supporting farmers, supporting fishermen, supporting households, supporting the economy. Are you sleeping? Did you follow when we brought it in? What's going on with you guys? I believe it was you, not us, we were doing our job, you weren't doing it. Perhaps it is time for your implosion, so that your colleagues can reconstruct you and the government that saves the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens in the situation of another crisis where you do not give us peace. What peace? We work every day. What you're doing with your non-accompanied benefits for a separate life is your main theme and I suggest you keep it quiet for a long time, out there in the hallway on the other side of the hall so no one can see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103896	Thank you. Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103897	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a huge difference between you and me. When a question is asked around me, I will come to the people who ask him, the media, the public, and I will answer everything that concerns me. And today you have a situation criminal proceedings cannot explain the origin of your property. Two chairs from you criminal procedure. In the second criminal proceedings, they accuse him of taking part in the allocation of billions of national kunas, and you don't mind and you don't mind anyone, anything you pass on. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, your government is not only dysfunctional, corrupt and if you can or want to hide from my 2 metres and 10 you will not succeed especially because I asked you a question that concerns not only you and me, but concerns Croatian citizens. And by insulting and avoiding the answer you did not spit in my face, but you spit in the face of those whom you should represent and whose interests you should take care of. In a few days, entrepreneurs will be charged four times as expensive electricity as they have been. HEP sent new prices, new electricity calculations. Do you really think that this will not be translated into an increase in the price of bread, other food products, and everything else that people live on? Is that what you really think? The measures you proposed two months ago are no longer sufficient. And you can point your finger at me as much as you want. This does not affect the standard of Croatian citizens. It affects them whether you move from place to place Do your job, [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And your statement today clearly shows that you just don't want it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103898	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, very much, fellow coat of arms. Let's go to 18 questions, dear colleague Čičak will be asked by the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Ivan Paladin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103899	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow ministers and ministers. In the last few days, respected Minister Paladin has raised the question of the difference between rapid preliminary examinations and later detailed examinations of earthquake victims, with changes in the degree of damage identified. So I'm curious about what this really means for our citizens if on their buildings, buildings, houses, there's a change in the so-called. sticker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103900	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103901	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Your Honor, for this matter and for the opportunity to clarify exactly this topic that has appeared in public space in recent days, which is much more important than some other topics to a certain number of our fellow citizens whose buildings, apartments, houses are damaged in an earthquake. As you well know in the days and months after the earthquake, a large number of construction experts carried out tens of thousands of quick reviews led by the Croatian Earthquake Engineering Centre. It is very important to note that the representatives of the Croatian Earthquake Engineering Centre have also explained in recent days that these rapid reviews were not even planned as the basis for the renewal. Just given this fact in the programme of measures, we have foreseen detailed reviews and consequently find authorised engineers who are the basis for conducting the renovation. On the basis of these, such detailed examinations, the findings of authorised engineers of construction are carried out further refurbishment procedures and, of course, there is a difference in the content of the model throughout the process and there are differences in the identified damages. It would be completely wrong to think that these differences would be damaged by anyone. On the contrary, on the basis of such detailed examinations, further procurement procedures are carried out on the basis of these findings, and reconstructions are carried out and our fellow citizens are entitled to rebuild exactly in accordance with the real real damage on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103902	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103903	Here's Minister I thank you for your answer and for your clarification, and I wish you all good luck in the coming months to speed up the maximum recovery. What I must point out this way to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia because my Zagreb County has also suffered in an earthquake. These millions that will come in the next few years will greatly facilitate our local self-government units in Zagreb County to rebuild our public facilities. Here's another thank you to the government and to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103904	We will now listen to the answers or the questions and the answers to two more questions and we will take a 10 minute break, only that you can plan later after the current morning 15 minutes of rest and the presentation of clubs and independent representatives, and at 4 o'clock will be the beginning of the debate on reports from the European Council meetings. So now it's time for a respected colleague, Ivana Kekin, to question the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103905	Thank you. So, dear Prime Minister, I will refer to my colleague Bencic and her discussions on what it means for you to be successful, and with this issue here today, often mentioned EU funds and development. So, for example, we have an island of Ilovik, which has been booming for 10 years, thanks to line 311, which in just 10 minutes has connected it with Lošinj, so with the doctor, with school, with work, and so on. But successful as it is, you withdrew money from EU funds and decided to invest it in development, with investment manifesting itself in increasing the existing port 150 times, while it will last for the Ilovcians to drive to Lošinj instead of 10 minutes to 80 minutes. And in addition, when the port works are completed, it will be so great that their passenger ship neither boats nor boats can be tied to it at all, so that they will remain permanently for 80 minutes. So, in the context of this project, your success can be seen through growth. So we have a growth in the port 150 times, we have a growth in the duration of travel for the island's 800%, we have a growth in the number of days in which the islanders will in no way be able to reach Losinj, etc. But the most fascinating part of this success lies in the fact that the project, which the ministry concerned, weighs 80 million kunas, evaluated and approved in just 24 hours. It's an unseen bureaucratic freshness, and I would recommend that these people be delivered immediately to Minister Paladini so that it speeds up and rebuilds. But joke aside. If the project continues there will be a steep fall, yes, yes, you consult with a colleague from Losinj, ok, so there will be a steep decline of the population on the island of Ilovik, so I wonder if you will return line 311 preferably within 24 hours if the funding of 80 million of this project is approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103906	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103907	Dear Representative Kekin, you speak awfully quickly, but I have no idea about this project, for the first time I hear about it, we will ask, I don't know if Butkovic is either Tramišak or maybe the Primorje-Gorski County is involved, we will answer you in writing. I don't know anything about it, I've heard about it for the first time, but I'm glad you're taking care of ours on Ilovik, and I'm sure it's better to connect them like all the islands. We've done a lot for the islands, and I hope this will be good too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103908	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103909	So, thank you for your answer, I don't think I asked Minister Butkovic who himself said he was some sort of average ability, so I thought you were more appropriate to answer that question. But I also think interestingly, it's interesting how conveniently you get off the subject, so since I have a little extra time, I would refer to your previous answer. I don't want to make it any easier. So, can't you track that to make it easier? So, based on your previous response where you are also in the lack of arguments baratal actually completely incorrect information. So she would remind you of the topic of renewal that since we have been in power in Zagreb, there is not a single apartment building that has not submitted the documentation for 10 months, so it is up to Mr Paladina and his ministry as Minister Horvat and the same ministry. In the same way as public purpose buildings, so we have absolutely reported everything that is allocated to Zagreb from the Solidarity Fund, and for example I will give you schools and educational institutions that have been damaged by 163, and currently there are 12 left, and not because of the construction renewal, but because we are conducting a complete reconstruction. And at the same time, I can see that you haven't been able to arrange for two years to rebuild this assembly and rebuild the government. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103910	Let's go to 20 questions now, MP Kreso Beljak will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103911	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic, I will try to be as slow and gentle as possible. I need to take it easy. Unfortunately, because of this war in Ukraine, tectonic changes occur around the world, and most of all in Europe. As one part of the EU, we have found ourselves in one part of the border and are followed by something, so a future that is uncertain and that we all know or no one knows exactly what is going to happen. Everyone's talking about the energy crisis, and I'm going to ask you myself today, are you, are you personally and your government aware that we may be facing a unfortunately food crisis or crisis that could have caused something that made the ministries called the Food Ministry 100 years ago. Today, we have the Ministry of Agriculture, which is in a catastrophic state where the police and the BIA are daily combing not only officials, not only current officials, employees, but also former employees, and things that are all not something that could be called a strategy to feed Croatia and Croatian citizens in the potential crisis years to come. I'll only read one thing that's waiting, and it's about ending the so-called. the historical rights, so the transitional model should have been transitional in that seven-year programming period from 2021 to '27. We should have moved on to a fairer model of flat raid or linear model where all farmers would get the same amount under the right to pay per hectare, and not now that more than 20,000 cattlemen then, they were only 7,000 is no longer engaged in cattle farming, and are still receiving so-called [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Beljak.]] Support for, I was too slow. [[Intruder: Fellow Whiteman Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103912	I'm sorry you were too slow. Gentle, but slow. [[Intruder Beljak: Thank you.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103913	Dear Mr. Whitey, you read faster than you say, that was more than obvious. We know very well what tectonic changes have been caused by Russian aggression in Ukraine, we know the consequences of Ukraine on the Ukrainian people, the fact that Ukraine is one of the cereals of Europe, the fact that after two years of covida-19 disrupted supply chains, that strategic decisions are being made on leaving the energy plants that are coming from Russia and at the level of Europe, that there are a number of restrictive measures, that there has been a rise in energy prices, and when the energy price changes then there is no sphere of our life that has not been touched, there is no, there is no. And that's why one of the elements that is currently happening is, of course, the rise in food prices. As far as supply is concerned, the minister has spoken of this several times at the government and in public appearances, at this point Croatia is not at any risk in the sense that we lack any food, food, raw materials, anything to this end we are quite stable both in terms of reserves both in terms of our production and in terms of our imports. What is a fact, the fact that the rise in energy prices of food prices, so ultimately this anti-inflation package and package that was aimed at reducing the impact of energy prices on citizens and on the economy contained a re-lowering of VAT rates, is the one that Mr. Grbin did not see at all that happened, he slept through it. So it's very important that you see that all this time we look at what's most important, and food is one of the most important aspects, without it no one can, not anyone. And that's why when the government made an effort to cut VAT rates from 25 to 13 or 13 to 5 then it's important that other actors, that other actors in society, too, I mean those who put products on shelves to take care of the wider context and social responsibility. There are mechanisms, there are consumer protection associations that need to point out who, in such a difficult objectively external element, is making more money under the affected and conditional circumstances, perhaps in that chain than they should, it is not good. The state made its contribution and gave it instantly and gave it strong. And that is why it should be warned that some products may, despite the rise in energy prices, despite rising prices in the supply chain may still cost more than they should, and there we must all be loud, and then those who put these products on the shelves in competition with their other similar companies will consider whether now is the right time to work extra or not. And that is why the government and the Ministry of Agriculture will continue to adopt key strategic documents, legislative acts, as well as specific measures programmes. There has been virtually no government meeting in the last few weeks, and that one programme of measures for some of the agricultural aspects we did not bring. I think one of those is getting ready and tomorrow, tomorrow's a tight cabinet is when we're done with the current clock. We will continue, and I am pleased that you, occasionally as the head of the HSS, still care about agriculture, even slowly and gently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103914	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103915	Okay, I was shaking for two minutes to see if I'd be offended, but it's not, it's fine, it's getting better. Measures, so I'm going to give you a proposal on how you came out with a freezing measure of energy prices or fuel can also be done by freezing food prices. So, the fact is that you've reduced VAT, but these traders haven't perceived or reduced prices, they haven't, they haven't, you have... so they just haven't ignored it. You can do it and you have to do it. And you've well concluded that without food it can't be really a fact, just as it can't be without air and without water. There's too little work to do. On the other hand, I am saddened as the head of the HSS if you want to when you mentioned me, I am saddened by the fact that on the god of the country's agricultural day, it depends on the import of any food item from any country in the world. So we have enough natural resources that we're self-sufficient about food and that we don't need to depend on importing absolutely nothing. It's the only thing that needs to be regulated legally, and unfortunately for 30 years, nothing is done, and I dare say to the Minister on my way out, because I think she's going to have a hard time surviving this reconstruction that she just didn't, she didn't show up as a person who could even think like you in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103916	Okay. Now, we're gonna take a break right up to 12:00, and then we're gonna go on with 20 other questions. MEETING AT 11:46 A.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] It is now up to Prime Minister Zeljko Pavic to ask the question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103918	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I'm going to have a little bit of information on the government's body. It's in APIS IT. It's 2.5 years old. After the implementation of the tenders, the decision to choose for the procurement of the office management information system and despite the opinion of the DCOM and the High Administrative Court that the annulment was unlawfully not made a new decision. Unless this system is implemented by 1.1.2023.g. We are losing 80 million kunas in Europe, and the authorities of the state administration will have to call a tender for the IT system of office operations and spend money from the budget. I remind you that the systems will have to be subsequently connected which will cause additional costs. During the same period, the largest IT company owned by the state received a large number of incompetent employees, reflecting contracts with external companies for the development of IT systems, thus increasing the amount on contracts from 10 million per year to the current 50 million per year. At the same time, the ministries are reviewing tenders for information and sharing jobs and money with your contractors, and there are no results. Take, for example, the Ministry of Tourism, who spent about 39 million kunas in information in several years giving jobs to performers who should not have done them either because of the nature of the work or because of the competences of the performers themselves. Now, after a few years, we know that the money has been spent, and the result has been lost, so the e-tourism project, which has already been paid to HRK 39 million, is listed in the NPOO with the new 40 million kuna. Furthermore, has anyone introduced you to the fact that a unique hospital system that should be financed from European funds must work by the end of 2023.? Are you aware that if this system of e- hospital doesn't work in time, 140 million kunas of European money will fail, and at the moment, not that the competition is not called but there is no technical specification for the competition? Finally, I would like to note that questions are raised on the basis of publicly available data from the government's pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103919	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103920	Thank you very much. Representative Pavić, you are obviously an expert in information and digitization, which I think is good. I'll talk to the Secretary of State of the Central State for the Digital Society, Mr. Greek, and I'll ask him for a report on what's going on with APIS, so we can see all this information that's going on. And as for eHealth and e-tourism, there are ministers and Beroš and Brnjak and they will send you written information on the status of these projects in correlation with the NPOO, and what is most important is to use these funds because, as we know, digital and green transitions are priorities of the entire instrument and the next generation and I believe that these funds will be spent on purpose and not on the cost of the state budget but on European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103921	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103922	Dear President, I thank you for your reply, but I will remind you that last time I asked Minister Brnjak a question and instead of getting answers to that she told me about the number of beds she has had in the past few years, she has not talked about informational, which is why the tenders are called in the order that should not be, and that, I think it can very well present to you your information counsellor. A wolf who knows what and how to do information systems, so if it's not a problem, we can meet her to explain where the problems are and what these problems are about. There is, among other things, a trivial problem that is related to the interpretation of the law, for which this law office has been taken to interpret the law to our ministry, and this same law has brought this ministry, isn't that a little funny and then, on the basis of these interpretations, a new information system is being done. One more, let's say I recommend, I would suggest that there may be an increase in the number of people in the Central State Office. Why? Not because they are not competent but because of the work of only 15 to 20 people on European projects in that office and 68 employees. They are assigned to other jobs and therefore we are late with European projects and therefore we cannot make projects in time, and the losses are very high. That's why I think that, given that you must be competent for European affairs and our internal policy, but you're not doing very well with human resources policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103923	Let's go to question 22, MP Josip Saric will be asked by Defence Minister Marija Banozic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103924	President-in-Office HS, the honourable Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers. I'm referring the question to Mr. Banozic, the Minister of Defence. So for almost two months now, there has been a brutal aggression against Ukraine that has greatly affected the security picture of Europe, that the war in Ukraine is closer than we think to witness and the fall of an unmanned vessel in Zagreb. We know that investment in defence in the mandate of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has been strengthened and that you are in the process of purchasing equipment for all branches of HV, if you are planning additional investments and what you are doing to make the citizens feel even more secure, and I ask you to brief your knowledge of the current investment in the purchase of equipment and weapons for the strengthening of HV.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103925	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103926	President-in-Office HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the question and interest in Croatian defence. The government, led by Andrej Plenkovic, has made it clear that all these years, it looks first and foremost at the standard of Croatian soldiers, but also on modernization, equipment, investment in the Croatian army that is essential to maintain the existing capabilities within the Croatian Navy and the mainland military, but also develop additional capabilities. This best says the fact that we have so far the largest budget of 7.2 billion kuna is a clear indicator of how much the government monitors investment in the Croatian military and the needs of the Croatian army. Also, all those NATO goals we have ahead of us, I tried to analyse and prioritize above all in a way to achieve those 2% of GDP for the Croatian military, which we did in 2 times 2.16% this year, and this was among 8 member states, of which 20% should have been for investment, and we invested as much as 30% of these funds. It is clear that this has been done through projects that were primarily crucial to preserving the capabilities of Croatian Air Force, which is to acquire a multi-purpose Raphal fighter plane, but also to develop a land army, first of all, I am talking about the Bradley project that has been running within the Croatian military for a long time, but also further investment that will be aimed at forming a medium-sized pedestrian brigade, so there is the procurement of other vehicles and weapons. Of course, the Croatian Navy will not be neglected, we have continued to invest in a coastal patrol ship, but we are also thinking about other ships that, for which the Navy has shown its need. Definitely, apart from the support we have from NATO allies and partnerships that we are developing what is most important to us, it is that on 10.3. when a drone armed with a plane bomb fell to the city of Zagreb, the priorities definitely changed. And the priorities that I think were needed in previous years and in previous mandates were much easier to realise, I speak first of all about anti-aircraft defence, and these priorities were also changed within the Croatian army again in the procurement plan that we brought back in the first month of January of this year when we formed a budget where anti-aircraft defence was not a priority, of course it is now what is safe to do with the support of the Prime Minister to obtain the anti-aircraft defence of the short-term range, but we also start to acquire medium-term range, thus closing this chapter, or necessary investment for the Croatian military. That's how we step up for all future events. I said that our partnerships are primarily manifested through our joint exercises, our joint, joint cooperation, primarily through the Air Force that you could also testify that we had carriers here, carriers in the Adriatic as well as all of the most significant planes we have at the moment, and within NATO allies. So we also had cooperation with American pilots through F16, also French pilots, Rafael who flew here over Zagreb, but also this week we have shown exercises with our Croatian Air Force, and thus we give a clear indication of how further development will take place and how we view the situation towards Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103927	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103928	I thank you for your response, and I commend your work as Secretary of Defense. I would like to point out here one fact that the midwives who today led the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic speak about the status of Croatian soldiers, Croatian military, Croatian Air Force during their term as Prime Minister discussed how Croatian Air Force should be abolished, how our skies should be defended by Hungarians, Italians or someone else. As a representative, I believe that today the President of the Republic of today, this serious crisis of time in which we live, should be a transport and support to the Minister of Defence in what it is doing to strengthen the armed forces, not to do what it is doing today. And it's because he's trying to fight the generals of the active ones he's working with, and here we are now witnessing that he's managed to fight these generals in retirement. If we had one group for Mustac and Perkovic, that we now have a new group against Mustac and Perkovic, I think it is not good and the role of the President of the Republic should be cooperative and should be in this, at this point although peacetime is the one that helps strengthen the Armed Forces of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103929	The 23rd question, MP Marijan Pavlikek will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go. My colleague Saric's just a microphone. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103930	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected prime minister, is the cancer of Croatian society's wounds in the last 30 years of demographics. Croatia loses 30 years per year to the number of inhabitants, due to the low birth rate, due to the eviction that, especially in the last 9 years, we are a full member of the EU who has taken more and more swings. Since 1.1.2022, Switzerland has opened the labour market for Croatian citizens and, according to demographic estimates, 40 to 60,000 Croats could leave me Croatia in the direction of Switzerland for the next 2 years. And the census has unfortunately shown that we are indeed in a demographic disaster where certain settlements, especially in eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Banovini, Dalmatia, have lost more than 30% of the population in the last 10 years. What's worst is primarily about young people, working people. You presented the measure of Biram Croatia a few months ago, so I wonder how much this measure has had to do with the effects, how many people have applied to that measure and returned to the Republic of Croatia since you said you were giving an incentive of up to £200,000 to return and open the crafts of our emigrants and what else you intend to do about revitalising the demographic Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103931	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103932	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavliček, we agree that the issue of demographicism is a crucial issue for the survival of the Croatian people, the Croatian state, the society and the data that we saw after the 2021 census are literally alarming for all of us. Unfortunately, they are not the result of an acute situation which has been a chronic problem over the past few years and the trend we see since the end of World War II, especially to this day, we have a situation where we were born in the early 1950s almost 100,000 children a year, today about 35,000 are born. That fact I'm painful, she's going to lead us to that urn as she calls it. Akrap will be such that our tree will go up, which means we're getting old. Which means that during a period that is ahead of us and not so far, unfortunately, we are going to die a lot more than we've ever seen before. And by doing so, natural growth will be further reduced. We've taken on our side a lot of measures that have demographic character. Demographic character and when it comes to maternity and parental benefits, we have increased these amounts, they will go further up to 7,500 kuna, we have invested in kindergartens in preschool activities, here tomorrow I don't know if Minister Fuchs here will present the competition under the National Recovery Plan and Resistance where a bid for 1.2 billion kuna for kindergartens will be opened. This right here is a map from 2017 to today. I happen to have, I didn't know you were gonna ask me that, but how's this thing tomorrow, so I'm getting ready. These all the blue dots you see here on this map are investments in 498 kindergartens worth $1.98 billion from 2017 to today. Thus, nearly 500 kindergartens have either been built or renovated or have been upgraded or some of the resistors are financed by those kindergartens. Our ambition in the national development strategy is for preschool children to be included in kindergartens to approximately European level, which means 91% for us. When we do that, then we will also provide their long-term quality education, all research shows it. The measure you spoke of since Switzerland also opened its labour market, that transitional periods have expired, 2 + 3 + 2 as regards the freedom of movement of workers with all members of the Union, Croatians today with our status as members in the EU can literally leave whenever they wish without any formalities and with recognised qualifications and work in any member of the Union and in Switzerland. And that's what happened and there's this space of, with those who unfortunately died and those who took advantage of that possibility of mobility. The programme Biram Croatia that prepared the Ministry of Labour and HZZ is in the initial phase. Minister Aladrovic I'm sure has the data, I don't have them here by heart to say exactly how many people are, but the measure is encouraging. On top of what we give for self-employment of those in Croatia we have those bonuses for people who want to return from EU member states. I'll send that information to you in writing, I don't know it by heart right now, and maybe the minister knows it, so if he has any questions, he can be friendly with you on the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103933	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103934	Thank you for your response. Well, about a month ago, it came out in public that only one person was using that measure, and here I hope that this figure will eventually be bigger. To all of us, the goal is to get as many Croats back to Croatia as possible. However, I suggest that it is indeed high time for Croatia to get one separate ministry of demographics and emigration to better connect our emigrants with the country of origin, which is unfortunately more out there than in Croatia itself, and that the ministry would have much stronger financial mechanisms than it does now, for example, the Croatian State Office outside the Republic of Croatia. However, despite a number of measures that are indeed good as regards demographic measures, they did not get the result, and the main reason is that our society is corrupt. Unfortunately, our society is corrupt. Prime Minister, you know that well. And everyone's responsible for their spectrum of work, people get hired through relationships, people go to doctors through relationships, people get different incentives through relationships, and you're responsible for your government. Unfortunately, more ministers have left your government in the last six years because of suspicion of corruption than the government of Ivo Sanader, who also ruled for 6 years, which may have been a synonym for political corruption. We need to get out of here. People don't come back to Croatia because they don't want to live in a society where we don't all have equal opportunities. Where there's more equal than equal. And if we don't start to change that, each and every one of us, and you, as far as the government is concerned, are few who will return, regardless of the many encouraging measures they offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103935	The 24th issue of MP Andreja Maric is asked by Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103936	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Beroš for the past six years we have witnessed the worst management of the health system without a clear vision and are awaiting the necessary reforms. Health care is choked on huge debts, citizens continue to wait too long for health services, many are suffering from chronic diseases with poor treatment outcomes, patients and healthcare professionals are dissatisfied. Nearly 315,000 employees, pardoned insurance companies are more than residents in the country, 6.3 billion kuna was a health recovery in 2021, more than 5 billion kuna amounts to long hospitals and pharmacies according to wholesales, 104 teams of family medicine are without a holder or no permanent doctor, 185 doctors in family medicine are over 65 years old. The emergency medical reform has been in the ministry drawer since 2016. In the media, we read a little bit about affairs in your ministry every once in a while. In September 2021, I sent you a health system reform question asking for a detailed written answer, and I only got it after three and a half months. In response, you list the general and specific objectives of the reform with three reform areas, however, without concrete plans and hodograms when these will be implemented and with the amendments to which laws I have asked you. Only 30 December 2021. The government has made a decision on the adoption of the National Health Development Plan for the period from 2021-2027 and the Health Development Action Plan for 2021-2025. Which is inconclusive. I'm asking you, when are you finally going to edit the health system, so do you solve the number of insurance companies and debts to the wholesales, increase the number of health workers, shorten the waiting lists? Have you done a deep analysis of the health system and defined the criteria for the hospital's merger? What laws and when do you plan to amend to implement the necessary reforms? What exactly are the debts in health care total and reached and how high are the drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103937	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103938	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and respected parliamentary MPs. You have asked a series of questions that require detailed evaluation, but I will tell you this, so in the last two years, at a time of an unprecedented health crisis, this government and the ministry have found ways not only to provide adequate health care for all the needy and sick of covid-19 diseases but also to establish a reform. This is a fact, it is indeed founded, it has already started because how else do I explain the fact that more than 10 months ago I signed a decision on a united public procurement with which we achieve better financial results from day to day, how else to explain the fact that certain rules that regulate the traffic of medicinal products that have already caused certain mixes on the farm stage are in order to enable our patients to continue, how to further explain the fact that the registries of equipment with a plan of renewal that we have not had in these decades of the existence of a health system, how to explain the fact that we have moved on with the resolution of some debts previously inherited in the health system of the type of overtime precisely to enable a clean start, how else to explain the fact that I continue to work on the strategic projects of this government when it comes to health, which is a strategic infrastructure project. The National Children's Hospital, which is currently under call for competitions on an idea project, then revitalisation of the Immunological Institute where every few months we bring certain acts to the government with the aim of revitalising production of the same and, of course, to obtain emergency helicopter medical services where we have received certain European funds for the implementation of the tender, is therefore all done. But I've been talking long about reform she's a desperate need, but she's not one moment, she's a dynamic process, the foundations are established. We are under way in the first phase of reform when organic laws are changed in health care, so the Health Protection Act, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I responsibly claim that by June, they will be prepared, released for public consultation. I call on you all to participate in the same because the clear vision this government has is the basic driver of the necessary reforms of the health system that we must in some way heal. After the amendment of the legislative framework, the second phase will be followed by changes in sublegal acts and networks of public health services, which we absolutely need to adapt to new elements and new conditions, new morbidity, new demographic elements of our population. And what I also want to say is that so far we have paid and agreed to provide health care in an inadequate way, this reform will establish a new way and to negotiate and pay health care in a way that we can evaluate it. In fact, so far in the health system we have paid someone to work, and from now on we have to start paying how someone will work, so it includes a quality element of that work. So, there's a big job ahead of us this government with the ministry that I'm currently at the head of has really found ways to justify all the changes and I know that we're all very impatient together, but for many decades these changes have been waiting for me to think that it's important to justify them properly, and a period of a few months before or later is not relevant, it's important that they are truly founded, and this is witnessed by certain partners of the type of GSV, the Association of Employers, and I have presented to you a certain direction of the health system Only because this government and the ministry have a clear [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] a vision of the development of the health system. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103939	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103940	Thank you very much. Just because of the importance and scope of this topic I will ask you a detailed written answer. I hold you to what you said by the end of June, these two laws, of course, are not enough and that we wait for you to present the public and the profession, and especially for us on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which and how you plan to do, because I must remind you that we have initiated the thematic sessions, so I am the opposition members of the Committee on Reform, but neither we have received the necessary detailed materials, and the question is how much you will respect the proposals and us from the opposition that we are in the ultimate line of the profession. You also mentioned that you talked to other stakeholders, so here's what I'm saying is what you're going to do. In that written answer, certainly answer me what I said about what criteria you will follow when you join the announced departments or institutions, if you will be guided by clear criteria, if you are going to review the business of those who are doing negative business, will you take over those health institutions that do positive work by the move under the state, so you must have clear criteria. Furthermore, what will be the benefit of all that you plan for our patients, or our citizens and healthcare professionals? How will you refund the costs of patients who will have to go from their former health care facility to another city or county? So you need to take care of all this. Furthermore, it saddens me that the affairs that we're witnessing from your ministry that girls from day to day I mean don't stop. Now the final peak is the overpaid device for intraoperative radiation, I hope you'll explain that too. So, health professionals are overloaded, and you are aware not only of the number of reviews and services but also of the administration and in the conclusion of our citizens and we all employees deserve a better, more orderly, more efficient and quality health system so that here you are on the move, so I hope that you will take over, or the minister and prime minister will change you before then, we don't know, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103941	Thank you very much. Let's go to Question 25, Commissioner Marijana Balic is asking him to be Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medveda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103942	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Vice President, the Ministers and Ministers of State and the Secretary of State. I would like to ask my question as to how I refer to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Defence Minister. Persons with disabilities continue to face obstacles, i.e. inaccessible and unadjusted facilities at both local and national level. We know that the Croatian Defence Ministry has been implementing a project of adaptation for many years, or a project to address accessibility to persons with disabilities. How many Croatian Defence Departments have co-financed such adjustments so far, and what else do you do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103943	Here's your answer, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103944	Thank you, well-respected President HS, respected MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Balic, thank you for asking. In fact, the Croatian Defence Ministry has recognised this issue for many years as an extremely important issue, and it is indeed an example of the good and positive cooperation of the Croatian Defence Ministry both with associations representing HRVI and with all civil society with disabilities. And it is with this goal that the ministry calls every year for a project of accessibility where we apply and call on both local and regional government units to include them, or to identify key objects that require the setting of appropriate ramps or accessibility to these facilities, and this is precisely what our government has done since 2016, so that to date it has increased the total budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry by nearly half a billion kuna so that we can realise all of our programmes and the overall set of measures and programmes that we implement. To date, the Croatian Defence Ministry has realised 290 programmes, or accessibility projects, for which 27 million kunas have been spent. Following year-on-year requests or public calls and public calls that arrive at the Croatian Defence Ministry, we have also raised budgets to 2.5 million kuna this year in order to make as many facilities as possible available for people with disabilities. We always tend to focus JLS to be facilities for health care, but also other facilities so that people with disabilities can really access those services and those facilities uninterrupted. This is another proof of our government and our government's policy recognition of all the essential needs concerning both HRVI and the entire population in the Croatian society of people with disabilities. Of course, we monitor and monitor all of this together, and we recognize where there is still a need, and in line with these needs, we will also invest the necessary resources and call the necessary calls in the future. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103945	The MPs, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103946	Thank you. I would like to thank the Ministers for their response. I think that this really is one example of reasonable adaptation and how this really enables equal access to everyone. It is therefore particularly important to take measures to include people with disabilities in everyday life, since it thus improves the quality of life of people with disabilities. And what is particularly important to highlight and emphasise is that this is how the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as well as the National Plan for Equality for Persons with Disabilities should therefore be implemented, as well as all the efforts that both this government and you as a ministry are doing to facilitate the life of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103947	Now as the 26th MP Ante Prkacin will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103948	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office HS, and equally honored Mr. Prime Minister of Croatia. My question will be thematically related to what I asked you a year ago, and then I pointed to an extremely privileged and privileged and undeservedly privileged position of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia. It's an institution that's been in the last 100 years. The most insidious and persevering Croatian enemy received all this because of an insane contract that is a good and honest man, but a very bad politician, bad Prime Minister Ivica Racan 20 years ago signed with the Serbian Orthodox Church. It's not the only bad contract that Racan signed and only a bad political move, but this one is disastrous. I've been claiming for 2-3 years. I wait for the answer that in Croatian history there was no such scandalous document as that contract. It's a complete fiasco of common sense. How deficient he was, I said, last time he was signed on the Croatian side with the highest dignity of the president of the Republic, and on the Serbian Orthodox side, he was signed by the imaginary president of the non-existent Episcopal Council of the illegal Serbian Orthodox Church. Furthermore, the contract is contrary to the canon of Orthodoxism, which says the church is on the border of the state, so you have, you have the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Bulgaria Romania, Romania, Greece in Greece but have Serbia in Croatia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. The contract is completely contrary to historical facts because the enormous Orthodox property gives Serbian Orthodox Church that does not have the right to do so. This time, the question will be not whether or not you will, but why you did not consider the contract and simply annul it because you have all the reasons and all the conditions especially because we have to relax very quickly or completely correct relations with Serbs. For what? Because a big battle awaits us in Bosnia and Herzegovina It's been a while. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103949	It is. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103950	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've already raised this question, I think it was some other topic, not the actual clock in some other debate. I asked then and the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Culture to give you a summary, above all a summary and framework of the contracts that the Republic of Croatia has with other churches and religious communities in the Republic of Croatia, and also with the Serbian Orthodox Church. Those contracts are eight. They regulated a number of issues concerning the relationship between the state and these churches and religious communities. The questions of the revision other than this of your appeal have not been formulated in any way so far. This question of how you formulated it refers first of all to the President of the Government of Mr. Racan who passed away. However, these are contracts that are in force, which bind all governments that came and later. And so far, besides those initiatives of yours, there was no one else, at least not that I knew. But I'm going to ask the ministers to give you one review, give you exactly what it's about, and I'd be more interested in what you intend to say about BiH, but we'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103951	You've got two minutes now, so you can do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103952	Mr. Prime Minister, if a correct agreement had been signed with the Serbian Orthodox Church, it would have been an interstate contract, but it was signed with some monster called the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, which is not registered in religious community records. They're not stupid. I'm referring to the Serbian-Irregular variant. They well know that they should register religious communities and then get legal subjectivity, but they did not want to do so. Because if they do, they will recognise the Croatian state, and they do not recognise the Croatian state. Furthermore, then he will have, no Minister Maric, then they must have legal finances or a treasury, so the huge material resources they collect in Croatia must be controlled by the Croatian state. However, they are neither under the control of the Croatian state nor controlled by the Serbian state where these funds are coming from, but they are used in black-handed terms as 1900 and some years. So, I'm very happy to meet the ministers and see, because this answer and this explanation doesn't stand. So that a contract was signed with the Serbian Orthodox Church in Belgrade stands, but with some fictitious Serbian Orthodox church in Croatia that does not have the contract formally and legally does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103953	Let's go to the 27th issue, MP Michel Jaksic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103954	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, history shows us how important it is in every crisis, especially in modern history, how important energy self-sufficiency is, and how important agricultural and food self-sufficiency is. We now see all this on the ent, especially if we take into account the effects of covid pandemic and when we see what is happening today with economic currents, inflationary pressures on all of what is now further to the covid brought about by the Russian-Ukrainian crisis. You announced on Christmas 2016 that INA will return to Croatian hands. Today in 2022, absolutely nothing happened. Also in 2017, when a potentially huge crisis of the entire system with Agrokora occurred, you and the government became quite involved in the story, certain effects were achieved. But what is the key question today is how do we allow Agrokor and all its parts, and it is very important for our agricultural and food sector by whispers to go back into Hungarian hands like the INA did. We gave the energy to Orban, Agrokor we are about to give to Orban, and we can ask ourselves a question that is a strategy at all, and what is the plan at all, that we can come up with energy and food self-sufficiency, and that we don't have to ask Viktor Orban who doesn't really communicate too much with Brussels where you like to be and like to communicate, and perhaps the most crucial question if we take into account that maybe even around INA you couldn't do everything why you were then promising something that you knew was unsustainable, and now that you had a lot more tools to pretend at the end of the day that it was you and ultimately all of us at the end is not concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103955	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for the privatisation of INA, you are young, but you're not so young that you don't remember who started the procedure. Just before, Mr. Pracchin mentioned the government of the Racans. That's when it started. This later was the continuation of the process that the SDP launched, let's not forget it so now we're returning something to us as if you had nothing to do with it and you don't remember. It is very important for the Croatian public to understand. That's number one. As far as INA is concerned, we've done a lot, we've taken everything that's been professional, legal, sectoral, financial, energy, legally commercially possible to evaluate how much MOL's stake in INA is worth, and we've offered the price. And we haven't met. For what we thought would be acceptable for Croatia to pay for the estimated MOL share in INA MOL did not accept, we have a good will, we would also find the means for it, they were not the means that we could not find, but you can't, you can't buy something if the other doesn't want to sell it to you. And just to pay as much as anyone will, and it's not really worth it today, and we're not going to do it, we're not going to do it. You wouldn't do that either. What was realistic would we do, what wasn't realistic we won't do because we think it wouldn't be responsible because we're not in a situation to pay an effective price as a government but to pay some evaluated market price, and the seller of those shares may have some other attitude and some other approach. As for Forten and the facts, I've been answering that question about Sberbanka who sold his stake, we're not pretending that this isn't happening, but here's Sberbank who's been trying to sell his stake in Fortenova for a long time. Well, it wasn't Plenkovic's government or I personally brought Sberbank to be a lender, i.e. Believer Agrokor and former owner. Who brought him here, what do we have to do with it? We inherited other people's problems and tried to solve them from being burdened by the state budget, that the company would work, that the suppliers would stay on my feet and that the OPGs might, with the exception of this case that one colleague mentioned would be solved. And that's what we did. Now, reputation in this not-Ukrainian-Russian crisis, but Russia's aggression and invasion of Ukraine, be precise. It's also very important because I hear it all, we have a situation for the company that they sell their share. What she found, found a Hungarian fund willing to give that amount of money right away, that's good for them, good for the company, good for that fund. Could anyone else have reacted on our market? He could have, everyone knew it on the market here, there's not a single serious actor who didn't know it, so let him come and give maybe one million euros more might be the ones who took the property. But we can't decide as a government and a state in the market economy for someone else. And besides fortenova's here, our company's gonna be on this market, it's gonna work. And whether the new co-owner here stays long-term or not I don't know it at the moment, but I know he can't do anything on his own without Croatian co-owners and components owned by Croatian companies. What matters is what they do. and uninterrupted under new circumstances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103957	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103958	Dear Prime Minister, I think that when we talk about INI, we'd all be happy to hear what that was and why there was no realisation of your promise because I think a lot of us first received that information today. As for the years and youth, yes, I remember Ivica Racan, I remember when something started with INA, but I also remember better who worked INE ended up in prison, was convicted and handed over everything he could from INE Hungarians, and that was the former HDZ president and then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who, though, was removed from HDZ membership, so I guess that doesn't count anymore. What you said about Fortenovo may agree with the thesis on the market, but you know very well that in Croatia there is a food agricultural industry and that there are pension funds. And what I'm sure is that with more effort, more efforts, more conversations such as a really fast solution for Sberbank in Croatia could be found a solution for Fortenova because it's not just products, it's not just plants, it's a lot of Slavonic plains, vineyards, farms, everything that we have there, and that they stay here is the same story with INO, so we have every little story how much our oil ends in Hungary. It would not be good if, in the follow-up to these crises, a lot of our wheat first ended up in Hungary and then we could bargain on how to get it back to Croatia. And I thank you for correcting that it is not a Russian-Ukrainian crisis, it is Russia's aggression on Ukraine, I agree with you, and I absolutely condemn it, but I hope you will also pass it on to the great partner of this country, Victor Orban, through the INU and through Forten, so that our great medal also takes a clearer stance on Russia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103959	Let's go to 28 questions, representative Sanja Udovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103960	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, has been almost a year since the presentation of the NPO, and it is particularly interesting to observe how much funds are actually reserved for education, science and research. It announced that construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of preschool institutions should be financed, and as many as 620 million kunas were reserved for this purpose. Construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of primary schools for the needs of one-way work and all-day teaching, and there is a reservation of 2 billion 280 million kuna and for the construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of secondary schools for which as many as 567 million kuna are reserved and for the digital transformation of higher education for which 633 million kuna is reserved. So, a total of 5 billion kunas have been booked, and public calls have not yet been made public. Here, today we've had a chance to hear that the minister will announce them tomorrow especially this public call regarding kindergartens. I must repeat that the minister has been insisting on announcing them since October last year. So the calls aren't prepared, they haven't passed public counseling, the question is whether tomorrow they'll announce that they're just going to go to public counseling or a specific call for kindergartens, or you'll tell us that it's already over. The government on which you are headed has itself set quantitative indicators and deadlines. So you say that the coverage of children participating in early preschool education from the age of 3 to school will increase from 76 to 90% there, you said to 91% and you say it will be in the second quarter of 2026. Unfortunately, here we see that [[Intruder President: Ufff time, you bit me.]] We see that [[Intruder President: You must finish.]] We see we haven't seen any public calls. [["Do you hear me?"]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103961	My colleague Udovic for 20 seconds, you're a record player. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103962	Thank you, well-respected Udovic, above all, for the really legitimate and useful interest in the subject of education, for investing in school, educational infrastructure through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. When we were working on the list of priorities of education was one of our most important and the fact is that tomorrow, I think that we announced it at 10 a.m. before the National and University Library session, this public call for early and pre-school education programmes is really going to be published. The amount is 1.2 billion kuna. You've seen very well what it says in the data from 67.3 to 90. I referred to a number adopted by the Parliament in the '91 National Development Strategy. This specifically means increasing capacity for 22500 children from 3 to 6 years of age. So that's that huge investment. I think that the total amount of funds that we have foreseen through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, he is now missing Fuchs again, they are slightly less than a billion euros will leave such a trail in Croatia's educational infrastructure that we will remember him for years. This large investment in kindergarten, in schools, was not really from a really long time ago to not evaluate any other systems that then managed Croatia and built the foundations of our education system. We target as many children as possible in the early and preschool system, and this will ensure that by 2026 and two go in a one-way course for children in schools. When we provide that with a sufficient number of students, with reformed educational programmes, with a de facto school for the global competition of our young generations, then Croatia will have a chance in all areas and our people will be able to position themselves, and we will be in a much better position here ourselves. As far as the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is concerned, since you have already opened the issue, we have those 6.3 billion euros in grants. We still have the option of 3.6 billion very favourable loans, almost unambiguous. We are among the first to receive the 818m-euro advance. We met all the goals in time, they were me thinking 34 criteria. And a 700m-euro payment was made for a new tranche. Indeed, on that side with regard to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, meeting the criteria set out in the European Course Mechanism of Two, the National Reform Plan, which the government will also adopt in the coming weeks, I think we have circled the credibility of meeting what we promise. And on the other hand, the funding that will come at a half-yearly level of around 700m to 800m euros will allow us to realise these projects, and education in all other projects is one of the most important priorities. Here you are tomorrow at 10.00 will be interesting, and especially on the big screen this card of kindergartens has already been done. That few people are conscious, and that's why I insisted that we show it so everyone can see the bigger picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103963	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103964	Here's a thank you for all the information you've provided. One of those kindergartens was built by us, so I guess we're on that card, too. But I can't say that I'm happy with your answer because we know how much funds you've booked and we know what's planned until 2026. We're almost halfway there in 2022 and the public calls haven't come out, so I'd like to ask you a written answer when public calls will come out for these four goals in this ministry and we'll be able to run for the projects we've prepared. So I'm asking you a written answer, and it's an opportunity for you to redefine the goals you set yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103965	29 questions MP Ljubomir Kolarek asks the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103966	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, Ms. Marija Vukkovic, which makes the Government, or the RES, lessen the price of food and agricultural products on the market conditioned by the increase in energy and raw materials prices, and also a market disturbance due to Russian aggression in Ukraine. And I would also like to inform everyone here that a few days ago in Međimurje, there was a great sea of bees again. Until yesterday, up to 18 million for inappropriate use and treatment of rape. And when all this is summed up in the end, I have a question as to whether a ministry like a year and a half ago will help beekeepers because we know what a bee means to the nature and life of a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103967	The reply of the esteemed Minister Maria Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103968	Thank you, well-respected President, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was already at the end of last year, since price growth was faster in 2021 than expected to help those who first felt such price growth in the chain, it was the Croatian livestock sector, so we prepared, and the European Commission approved a programme of support worth 171 million kuna for all livestock sectors and an additional programme of support of 20 million kuna for the poultry sector. Let me remind you, the cattlemen first felt the rise in prices, livestock food, and great difficulty. This price rise also accelerated in early 2022. led primarily by energy prices, and by further aggression to the great European state of Ukraine. Although the eyes of the public at the beginning of the year were against the rise in energy prices, this government has, as always, recognised in all similar, uncertain and difficult situations in time that such price increases will affect the population, not only through energy but also through the expected rise in food prices. Therefore, in a series of measures in a 4 billion-dollar package and 800 million kuna food has taken a very large share, not only of production but also of mitigation of expected price growth, so I will remind you that, in addition to the support programme for producers in agriculture worth 200 million kuna intended for the mitigation of artificial fertiliser prices in addition to the support programme for Croatian fishermen, it is intended to mitigate their difficulties due to the growth of the 75 million kuna energy approved by the European Commission in record time, the government has also prepared tax measures that reduce the VAT rate for different products in this respect to fresh food from 13 to 5%, on agricultural inputs which also affects 5% of this chain and that share in the package is when we talk about VAT two billion and 100 million kuna, and when we talk about the share of food, it amounts to a billion and 600 million kuna without support from farmers. Also, as the Prime Minister said almost every session recently, precisely because of this connection between agriculture, agriculture and population standards due to the share of food in the consumer basket, we expect and prepare new decisions that should be directly helped by Croatian producers, ultimately and consumers. It appears that the increase in food prices would be higher as the inflation of the basic raw materials of food measured... By index reached the historic level in March, the greatest growth since 1990. It is likely that such a price increase would be higher, of course, as always so far we will continue to react both in due time and reason in doing not make mistakes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the bee-marine, unfortunately the bee-murder again, unfortunately again in Međimurje. Thank you for remembering that we have been reacting without delay in August 2020. to such an event that we have prepared the first such support programme, there has never been before such reactions for bees that have been affected by this sea and the loss of bees and that they have been satisfied with this package, so of course we will continue to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103969	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103970	Thank you very much. Here I thank the Minister for this exhaustive response, and I believe that all those measures you have said and which the government and the resolution ministry will bring in the coming period will ease the price of agricultural and food products. But I would point out one fact, recently there was a farm fair in Gudovac and maybe all of us missed it, but there were almost all the machines and almost all the mechanisms sold, and only that fact be one hope that agriculture will survive, that there is a perspective in that agriculture, and that these laws that we have recently passed in this assembly, there has been a combination, tomorrow we have a discussion of the second reading of the Agricultural Land Act, and it is very important for us not only to feed Croatia but also for our tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103971	The next question will be asked by representative Nevenko Barbaric to the respected foreign and European affairs minister Gordan Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103972	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. The government is showing its attitude towards neighbouring and friendly BiH through joint implementation of a number of infrastructure projects, more generous European funds on cross-border cooperation projects, stronger economic co-operation, support for BiH's Euro-Atlantic integration and strong political engagements to resolve political obstacles within BiH, and yet in this assembly, with us part of the opposition, part of the media say it is insufficient, nothing. Interestingly, it is not mentioned, the slight lack of interest of all previous governments from 2020 to today for our problems. It is also interesting not to mention the political turn of parts of the countries above all the EU and the US administration on how to resolve disputes within BiH, could the issue be more and better? Dear Ministers, which specifically means inclusion in the strategic compass, hence EU documents, the concept of consistency with 3 peoples or in the conclusion of the US-Croatian forum. Also, the prime minister and you often point out that to resolve political obstacles is crucial, relaxing relations, restoring the trust of Croats and Bosniaks in BiH. Why? That is why a single question, the high representative of the international community insists on holding the elections as planned so on the 10th month of this year. Does your comment, do you go out to these unconstitutional elections or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103973	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103974	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Barbaric, thank you very much for always raising awareness of this issue that is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, of course this government, but also for the position of the Croatian people in BiH. You mentioned well you did one balance sheet in fact analysis when it all started with the deconstitution of the Croatian people in BiH, starting in 2000. when the early election commission for the implementation of the general elections in BiH has adopted new rules that you remember, which makes it impossible for one people to choose their representatives in the county parliaments, they are so called. Barry's amendment, he was the head of the OSCE mission. Of course, they were even more destructive, so-called. Petric's Amendments. We just remembered yesterday when he was a doctor. Covic is the president of the Croatian National Assembly on 19 April 2002. when, by virtue of the agreement of the Sarajevo Agreement, the constitutional change of de iura recognised the constitutionality of both entities, so not only in the Bosniak-Croatian Federation but in the RS, but in the de facto of the RS remained a Serb entity, and the Bosniak-Croatian Federation remained a de facto Bosniak entity under the Washington Agreements of 1994. And now we have Croats here because of a small number they are squeezed between Serbian separatism and Bosniak unitarism, because of the very two pranks in a way where one half is actually lost in one third or one half of the election of presidents in the second round even one half is lost in zero. It is at that point that the issue of the Croats in BiH actually cared, and now imagine through all these governments, and we know which government was here at the time in Croatia and who was the president of the state and how many times there were exactly those who did not allow the choice, the legitimate choice of the president of the constituent peoples before all in 2006, you know who was in BiH who gave the current so-called "who." The Croatian representative in T-shirts who came downstairs gave him support and entered then 2010. In the event of a coincidence in 2014, this did not happen, but under the election law again, 2018. This government headed by Andrej Plenkovic where we know how much we have put forth effort and work to raise awareness. Now they're new generations, no one actually knows this historical genealogy of history which it was, they're actually miraculously surprised that there's one such question. What we said in the strategic compass is the headstone. The strategic compass is the EU's most ambitious defence and security project, it will never be deleted. Of course, we can talk a lot about it, but there are a lot of responsible political actors who, by their statements, with bad statements, with a bad dictionary, are now polluting the relations between Croats and Bosniaks and are pouring sand into our engine that we want this government to do something in BiH. We hope there will still be an agreement between the Croats and Bosniaks where the same prime minister is working actively on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103975	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103976	I would like to thank the Honorable Ministers. So, with everything you've said, we haven't made it to the finish line, but at least we're not alone. So, it is very important to continue this political struggle, we will not, we cannot give up this part of full equality and the Croatian people in BiH in deciding whether to go to elections or not based on the conclusions of the extraordinary assembly will bring the political representatives of the Croats gathered into the Croatian National Assembly very much believe here in agreement with the support of the Government of the Republic, but also all of our partners from the EU and the US administration. It is very important to stress each time that Croats are asking for nothing more than what they received from peace agreements and what they had in 2000, 2002. and that ultimately all international conventions that speak of human rights and other freedoms do not guarantee them. In addition to political equality, no matter what many think about it and the assistance this government provides to regulate and improve living conditions within BiH, primarily the Croatian people, strengthening the institutions of Croats in BiH from educational, cultural, health and other institutions. I therefore take the opportunity to thank the Prime Minister, this government and I believe I speak for the great majority of the Croatian people in BiH for everything they do for the Croats in BiH. We as a people in BiH can survive if we are equal in the full sense of that word and also if we are developed educational, educated, therefore we are very important to cooperate with all ministries, with this government I believe in better days and that we will welcome the election cycle in a different environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103977	Thank you. Let's go to the 31st question, Honorable representative Mrak Taritas will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103978	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Honorable Prime Minister. One of the things we resented about the government during that great pandemic of the Crown is the organization of the health system, and at that time we claimed that decisions cannot be made only by hospitals and hospital directors, but that the Government and the Ministry must take matters into their own hands. Therefore, we now have the same case with a health care organization when it comes to a very, very sensitive issue, which is the termination of pregnancy, or abortion. He's legal in Croatia. About the law and when it will come to Parliament's agenda, I won't ask you that, but I'll ask you something else. Women in Croatia, according to the law, have the right to abortion legally. Likewise, doctors have the right to a conscience call. And now, although we might ask a doctor here with an appeal to the consciences that work in the public system. But what's not there is no official statistics from which you can see what number of gynecologists and anesthesiologists have the appeal of conscience in our hospitals. But the situation is such that according to the data we have, there are hospitals in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where legal abortion is not possible. Who's supposed to jump in there? In my opinion, the government. The healthcare system should be organised in such a way as to ensure that every hospital has sufficient number of doctors who can perform pregnancy interruptions, so that women's rights are not denied. My question for you, Prime Minister, is very simple to make sure that the health care business is organized so that women in all our hospitals have the right to medical procedures that are legally guaranteed to them truly for the truth, not just on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103979	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103980	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. As you know, according to existing legislation, abortion is legal and legal in Croatia. However, it is also the right of every doctor, every health care professional to express his appeal to this truly fundamental human question. And we don't have any kind of coercion mechanisms to tell someone that at certain times, certain procedures don't express their call for conscience. As far as statistics are concerned, I'm going to ask Minister Beros to brief us, so he can give you that information. You obviously have something on the basis of something you're saying right now. I don't know that there are health care facilities where it's impossible. If that's the case, we'll take it into consideration and see and check it out eventually, but according to what we discussed earlier, I think it's almost impossible. And the appeal of conscience to us, even as a party, is a party that divides and Christian values, we will not forbid anyone. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103981	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103982	Mr. Prime Minister, I am not pleased with your response. I have to say, unfortunately, I was expecting that kind of answer. Therefore, according to data that were possible and available general hospital in Nasice, Požega, Vinkovci, Knin, KBC Split, Holy Spirit in Zagreb, the Sisters of Mercy are some institutions where it is not possible to perform a medical termination of pregnancy. Likewise, hospitals in Požega and Vinkovci collectively use the call of conscience. Women have the right to a legal abortion. Doctors have the right to appeal to their conscience. Whose right is greater? Whose right is stronger in these moments? Mr. Prime Minister, what is the responsibility of your government to in public hospitals, so public institutions where the salaries are from the budget, ensure that medical legal termination is possible. Today, women from Croatia go to Slovenia, go to other countries or abortions work in some private arrangements semi-legal or illegal. That shouldn't happen in 2022. Of course, what is a bitter taste in the mouth is the unanswerable question, or the dark side that perhaps in this way women, you wanted or did not want to move from public health to expensive private health care. Anyway, it's my responsibility to you. I don't know what the stronger right of a woman to a legal abortion or the right of a doctor to appeal to a conscience. But it is your responsibility to make it possible in public institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103983	Let's go to 32 questions, dear colleague Katarina Nemet is asking him again to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103984	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, there is a successful holiday tourist weekend for us. All the announcements from the tourism sector show that we can expect a successful tourist season, as well as a pre-season that has been missing for the past two years. It seems that the pandemic should not pose a major problem, although health security will play a major role in choosing a destination. What will represent the greatest potential danger is certainly the escalation of war in Ukraine. Among other factors that pose a potential danger are also global increases in energy prices and rising inflation. According to field information, these very negative factors could be decisive. Since it will be more affected by remote aviation and fewer car destinations such as most of Croatia. So we could have a successful tourist season this year. I say it on purpose because it will be influenced more by external factors than by ourselves. What I would ask the Prime Minister is this: When will this government finally take structural and long-term moves to strengthen Croatian tourism and strengthen their key stakeholders so that tourism does not happen to us, but rather to manage it strategically and sustainablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103985	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103986	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Nemet. I must admit that just that tourism is happening to us, there is a bit of a bold thesis, especially a bold thesis in the context of the fact that in 2019 we had a record tourist season that brought down all the possible numbers and numbers of arrivals and numbers of overnight and income, that if you remember at that time we were talking about the concept of sustainable tourism, the framework which was the main topic of Croatian tourism 2019 due to the crowd, because of the inability to enter our key tourist destinations was the question of the sustainability of infrastructure and everything else. We had 13.8 million arrivals in this 2021, 84.1 million overnights. According to the travel minister's data, is she here, is she gone now, which she presented the other day, we are by the numbers now after Easter holidays better than we were last year and I think we are in a few percent with the results of this early season from 2019. The topics that are capital for Croatian tourism are the question of a sufficient number of employees, we lack labour force in hotels, we lack labour forces in hospitality, and this topic is the most important and therefore the number of scholarships in the tourism sector, centres of excellence, including strong and large hotel houses in educated cycles to help them form ready people for what they need are the steps we do. See how many such centres are competent for tourism, activities of the Ministry of Tourism, activities of the Croatian Tourist Board, the presence in all possible markets where our guests come from is more than agile, our campaign last year's "Safe stay in Croatia" has received effects. And I agree with you, part of Croatian aviation, part of Croatian self-destination with the relaxation of the coronary measures and other aviation will attract more tourists, that's a fact. However, according to the Minister, and the other day we had her briefing after the government meeting, and regardless of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and all these problems that arise, and due to the rise in energy prices and food prices, we do not see at this time any worrying signal that, globally speaking about Croatia, would be a problem in terms of buking or announcements of arrivals, and therefore it seems to me that tourism is not happening to us, that tourism is a branch that has contributed to the lightning leap and growth of Croatia's GDP from a minus 7.5 to 10.4% of '20-21. Of course, all other activities. And that is why I believe that especially you who come from Istria, and Istria is the pearl of Croatian tourism, especially because there is an objectively longer tourism. If anyone has a long tourist season, then I'm glad. I am always very excited to see how much investment, investment and how much creativity has been invested in all possible tourist offer from heritage to culinary, to everything that goes in tourist capacities. And that's why it seems to me if you have some constructive idea to suggest it, but if tourism were happening to us, it would never happen to me for Croatia, and I think most people who at least have something to do with tourism have to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103987	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103988	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I am partly pleased because I continue to think that our tourism needs structural and long-term changes that will strengthen and make it more competitive. First of all, we need to develop a Croatian Tourism Strategy that we have been waiting for too long and without reason. Croatian tourism needs urgent and fiscal and parafiscal discharge and a reduction in VAT rates. And to be picturesque, we all know very well that tourism is a golden splinter to fill the budgets of both local regional and national and it would be devastating if that splinter dried up, and we didn't do everything we could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103989	The 33rd issue of MP Natalija Martincevic asks Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103990	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers Ćorić, Croatian citizens are today under a terrible blow to the prices of all energy companies, including the rise in electricity prices. The whole series of factors as a state can be very little influenced, but the introduction of a solar model on the roofs of family houses and residential buildings can be very simple, fast and for our citizens an extremely favourable and acceptable model. The government only by adopting a regulation and by giving up VAT collection because all other preconditions as we know already exist can enable citizens to build their own solar systems up to their consumption level. The model we propose as reformists would allow savings in domestic budgets of between 500 and 1,500 kuna per month for the next 20 to 25 years, the return of their investment is 4 to 5 g. with a monthly loan war if they decide to finance through banks in the amount of monthly electricity bills, so without any additional burden on citizens and of course without all these procedures, commissions, committees, fastest finger and anything else that frustrations our citizens. For the country or all of us, this means that without any investment, we will get 10 thousand small solar power plants, hence green energy and thus eliminate the need for part of the imports in the highest quality way in the daily consumption. All I've been talking about right now is giving up VAT, and that's actually subsidizing the whole 20 percent story to citizens. If there is no such investment there is no VAT, in fact, the state is not giving up anything, it's just not going to make any money. That's why my question is very simple, so I ask the same answer, so will the government accept this reformist proposal and if they accept it when we go along with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103991	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103992	Thank you very much for your question, Mrs. Martincevic. So, the idea presented at one of Mr. Cacic's meetings with us at the RES in the energy segment was assessed positively, but I will remind you of the fact that Croatia has thousands of small solar power plants at the moment. Our citizens, especially in the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia and in islands for years, are already installing solar panels on their houses and thus reducing their accounts and ultimately producing electricity. It is certain that the return on value added tax would reduce the costs on the one hand of these investments and, on the other hand, would in fact increase both the return on investment and, in this context, the logical proposal of Mr Cacic and the Reformist respectively. What follows is an inter-resorial consultation with the Ministry of Finance, according to this proposal I will only remind you of the fact that we have recently discussed in HS in the final and adopted proposals have submitted proposals for a reduction in value added tax to certain types of energy products, so changes in value added tax or this law were made not full months ago. The Ministry of Finance is that it coordinates these activities, we, on our part, have offered positive arguments in our inter-resorial talks for the adoption of this perspective, if there is a change of law, so they must pass HS and implement that such ideas will only go once such a legal proposal has been adopted. Once again, I will return to the fact that Croatia has significantly increased its capacity in the solar area over the past few years, i.e. in photo voltage to some 140 megawatts, it is not a small capacity. Of course, the potential is significantly higher, but it has been large so far, and the subsidies that went through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund have certainly had an impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103993	Here's your representative's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103994	Thank you for your response. All of what the government makes sure that we support, but you are also aware, we are all aware that all of the processes and all of these subsidies that you are now giving are highly bureaucratic, very frustrating for our citizens, but what is crucial is that they do not give full results because, namely, slightly less than 30% of our citizens' demands are actually accepted and realised, and what is realised is mainly about energy efficiency so on the facades, on the windows, but not on photovoltaic solars, so on photovoltaic solars less than 10%, so that story didn't live. This is a very simple model that we have proposed, for it there are all assumptions, therefore the Civil Energy Act, which the Reformists have proposed in 2015. In 2018, banks recognize this model already designed co-financing models as I said models are such that citizens would not pay anything more than they pay for current electricity wars. So it's a positive model that would allow our citizens to have free electricity, a model that would allow the entire Croatia to switch to green energy, which we all strive for. I think there's only so all the assumptions exist, all the conditions here are satisfied just that you need to make the decision and I suggest you make it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103995	The 34th issue of MP Majda Buric asks the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, Honored Vice President, Honored Ministers and Ministers. Dear Minister Aladrovic, I ask you a question. So, despite all the challenges in this year and in previous years, the Croatian economy, employment and wages in continuous growth, we also have today the latest DZS data related to the growth of the average salary, which today, in February 2022, is 7.452 kuna, which is nominal growth compared to the same period of the previous year almost 6%. I would also point out that the Republic of Croatia today has almost 36,000 more employees compared to the same period of the previous year, and this is as much as 56,000 more employees, especially in this regard it is necessary to highlight as one of the reasons why well-hit and precise measures of active employment policy, especially in the course of the crisis, measures to preserve jobs that have protected and preserved almost 800,000 Croatian workers and 120,000 employers, and a stable labour market has been ensured. As already noted several times today, the lack of domestic labour that is being solved through the Foreign Law, through scholarship, through the centres of excellence, is also worth mentioning, however, that it is important to make domestic labour as productive and as quality as possible. And in that sense, dear Minister, I ask you to give more information about the system of vouchers for the employees and the unemployed for whom you have secured 300 million kuna, so 10,000 kuna per consignee. providing additional skills and competences. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103997	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103998	The Honorable President of HS. Dear MPs, first of all, I thank you for asking. So, as you yourself have said in terms of employment trends, as far as wage developments are concerned, they have been positive over the past five years practically, so we are now with today's published data on more than 7,400 kunas of average net salary in the government's programme we promised 7,600 kuna by the end of the term, and we will certainly meet that. As for the labour market itself, so today, compared to the same day last year, we have about 39,000 employees more and we expect that at the end of April or at the end of May we will reach the absolute maximum number of employees since 2000. since we've been tracking the number of employees this way. This binds to itself in certain segments or sectors and labour shortages. It can be compensated, therefore, or from the pool of those unemployed who are getting smaller or through the Law on Foreigners or by importing labour and, of course, by increasing or expanding competences or skills to which we have been determined in our own party programme and by all strategic documents. The Republic of Croatia currently has one challenge for lifelong education, but with this system of vouchers that you mentioned and apostrophe we believe that we will find one part of the answer in this, 300 million kuna will spend through NPOO and invest in the acquisition of additional skills, the acquisition of competences and ultimately result in a more quality and competent workforce on the market itself. 1.4 this year is a system of vouchers as such started so in application and as long as 30,000 users do not, in this way we will not acquire the skills we will use it, I'm sure it will be in a shorter period than we have predicted so far because in the 10 days of this month we already have more than 200 applications right on, to acquire skills in this way. So we have 3 sources, all 3 we use very high quality, very fast and ultimately in the interest of the economy in Croatia as a whole, and I am sure that this way we will use one part of the lack of labour in segments where it exists to compensate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u103999	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104000	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer, and I certainly believe that this introduction of vouchers or action in terms of raising skills and competences, i.e. the acquisition of new ones, will have a positive impact on the quality of the Croatian labour market and on the overall labour force and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104001	The 35th question, MP Nino Rasdic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104002	Dear Prime Minister, looking at this ministerial assembly, this cream of your staff's creams cannot be taken from the impression that today they radiate to a deep melancholy, one of the existential melancholy best expressed by a warm poet, it is not about Sergi Lavrov being named by your foreign minister, but about Giuseppe Ungaretti by a great Italian poet who has his own experience of a young soldier in the First World War where thousands and thousands of soldiers died daily by the song "Soldiers" consisting of only one verse that says "We are like in the fall on the trees of leaves". You're fragile, and recently everything seemed completely different, only two months ago you were saying, I quote, that the eyelashes are being laid out by the end of the term, and today you've brought yourself into a situation where Nikola Grumoja is setting up a government for you, that she's hitting you at the pace of a minister's shift and who you're going to replace. I'm not a person who wets what's already wet, so I'm not going to dig through the wounds and scribble what the judiciary and the media are doing, but I'm going to ask you a question where you're strongest, and that's your known influence in the EU and with our American partners. For a year now, you have been working intensively to help the Croats in achieving their equality, many times in Mostar, and you have always assured them that in cooperation with our partners from the EU and the United States, you will help to change the electoral law in a way that the Croats are sure that they will choose their own representatives, so I am interested after all your efforts and in cooperation with our partners what is the situation today and how long has it been agreed on the amendment of the Election Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104003	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104004	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rasudic, as far as your poetic alusions and the state of government are concerned, and what to do and when to reconstruct, it is true that there was no activity of the DORH in relation to the three members of the government there would be no reconstruction, that is, that we understand each other. But I can't answer for the things people do, and without telling me or happening, and they were then something different than what they are, but there is a principle of presummation of innocence. You should even, I can see that you have this European thesis in rhetoric a little bit informing what politicians should be doing before other people are pre-dealing labels that they're guilty and they're criminals. It is your main sport, it is the main sport of your colleague, whom Mario Kapulica shamed so that I am surprised that he is still sitting here, the man gave his hand, said if Mario Kapulica proved to be on a polygraph that he was never in Slovenia unlike your main friend, and that this carriage covid from Pantovkat who came there at the time of the crown, at the time of lockdown, dragged by the hand of the Chief Staff as a small child and forced him there in the middle of the lockdown to be in a buzz owned by a corrupt man against whom there are criminal proceedings and then it would be fair to Mr. Grmoy, friend of Mr. Poetnik Rasdić that you hid somewhere away from where the Grbin should hide. It's your integrity, it's bridge integrity, you gave your hand, I didn't watch it, but Mario warned me, so later I looked, I don't know what you're doing here and not one, two polygraphs, two polygraphs. You have maybe a few more days to decide when you're going to leave, if it were the reverse Mario would have gone, he's a man of integrity, you're sitting here still, cold, I guess because you're used to throwing mud without arguments at others. As far as BiH is concerned, the damage done to the interests of Croats in BiH by Pantovac's cavities when he told the Bosniaks first soap, and then perfume, will not wash out bridge rains or Niagara's waterfalls. You know as well as any of the mental dinars, I have it just as much as you do. If someone told your family first soap and perfume, you wouldn't be talking to those people for ten generations. The kids would fight at the bus stop when they went to school, they'd come to yell at each other at a house like they used to down there, let alone to agree to someone you said would agree to a political agreement and compromise on the amendment of the Electoral Law. We have suffered damages, pests that have been present here for months, called the Ukrainians corrupt your main partner, the mecen and sponsor and you are his pillow in BiH, and now you will still appear and probably he and your friends down there are small strangers who have three councilmen representing the third entity. And then you will put the Croats in BiH from the position of the victim's majorization victim in the position of the guilty and responsible for the blockades of the institutions. It's an agenda, I revealed it, he clearly saw it, explained it to our partners, all Croatian political parties within the CNS, and unfortunately everyone in the international community knows it too. My influence is great, and his influence is nothing but vermin. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104005	Thank you very much. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104006	First of all, I will notice that you have made an intrinsic escape to answer my question, which is what you promised for a year by coming to Mostar, that you and our partners from the EU and the United States will lead to an amendment to the electoral law that will guarantee the Croats equality. What about this process today? I notice something interesting. So it's not our inactivity, the inactivity of Croatia for what will happen, but one statement by Zoran Milanovic, which the note was not addressed to the Bosniaks at all, but BiH as a whole spoke in terms of the first elementary school, so the first soap then perfume I don't know why you're transferring it to the Bosniaks. And secondly for your information on what is happening, information from the Croatian public. In exactly 2 weeks' regular procedure 4.5., the central electoral commission in BiH will call elections under such an electoral law that Croats will be politically eliminated. All that happens today, you and your partners and your influence that the Bosniaks agree to change the election law for two weeks is not enough to pass the procedure of both parliaments to change that. So fine, the story's over. For a year, NATO has warned and appealed here. You didn't do anything! Croatia has not acted as a sovereign state full of NATO and EU members, but rather you have dragged someone by the sleeve, explaining something. You put in a compass sentence that stands in the Constitution of BiH and you present it as a great achievement. The Croats will unfortunately be politically eliminated in the fall. The big secret is yours, you were an anesthesiologist at that operation to rip off the political head of the Croats in BiH by going to Mostar and petting their eyes that you would do something. You didn't do anything. I will repeat, I sincerely believe that you would help the Croats in BiH, but you would never cross that line where Brussels or Berlin would hear, no. And we hear well, German politics clearly see where it is, no. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104007	We're going to the 36th issue of Representative Miro Bulj. It will be appointed to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104008	Thank you. Gatherings, inflation here I've come countless times, warned, then it's unseriously taken. Now, measures have been given to the prime minister that the problem of energy collection has been solved. However, this bottle of water from the Cossinca of Cetina clean, I see you're using water. It would be good to try this purest one will collect five times. Cetina river, 40% production of hydropower, three times as much energy to Croatia as Krško gives. You're giving us back the crumbs. Last year for the Cetinski region, the water supply of the cetin area electricity for pumps was 2 million and 200 kuna per year, so that each household could get water on its own sphinx or tap, and this year 10 and a half million kuna. 400% more expensive and you're boasting that you've cost people the price. And what would they be tribbing about now? Those crumbs you return to us through the traffic of Oleg Butkovic, because no one cares about 50,000 people from the Cetinski region, or the people from the Split swimming pool who use a million-and-a-half cubic metres from these sources for these expensive pump stations. Five times, so 500 percent more energy. For the Cetin region waterway and throughout Croatia, however, mountain-mounted areas have more expensive stations that use a lot of electricity. From two and a half million to 10 and a half million kuna. I've proposed a solution here, and it's a unique public procurement at HEP. That's what Prime Minister HEP does to us. Our company uses hydropotential.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104009	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104010	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Bull. As far as HEP is concerned, as far as the Cetin region is concerned, as far as the activities of the Ministry of Economy are concerned, I will ask Minister Coric, who normally discusses this problem with you whenever he is in the Cetin region, regardless of whether it is Sinj, Trilj or another city, to help see what else can be done and about the energy and activities of state companies in his jurisdiction. But I'm going to go back to this topic from the last question, because I have a lot of minutes. It would not be good for them to remain unresponsive, as the Croatian people might think that we in the government are uninformed when the central electoral commission in BiH will make its decisions. But things need to be said as clearly and firmly as they are. The activities of both foreign-political and prime ministers at the level of the minister and at the level of the entire diplomacy regarding the situation of Croats in BiH, which we have taken in the last approximately 2nd year. They have never been bigger since Croatian diplomacy if we absorb wartime. What you are imputing to us is that we anesthesiologists and assistants in eliminating Croats in BiH as a constituent people because Bosniaks in the Federation do not want to agree to several models that the Croatian side has agreed with us, and in agreement with the international community it will not pass, there is no government that has advocated more Croatians in BiH than we do. Croatia is the first trading partner in terms of constantly rising exchanges. Croatia is the second investor in BiH after Austria. Croatia has made efforts to better infrastructure integration with all parts of BiH. Croatia has helped BiH Croats more in political, diplomatic, economic, financial, and infrastructure terms than any other government at a time when I am prime minister. Croatia has raised 100% of the funds of the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia this year. Where do you think the money goes, who gives money to the bridge hospital, who will finance the theatre in Mostar, who gives money to the university, who grants scholarships to the Croats in BiH, who do you think does it? As far as other countries' views are concerned, we can interpret, we can advocate, we can even put something into a strategic compass that no previous government has succeeded, which we organised at the European Council for a debate on BiH that has not been in place for years, which we have put into conclusions and showed readiness at the highest level to reach an agreement. I ask you, and I ask you to compare your Pantovka caries with what you have done, which is your contribution, except that you have distanced those with whom you need to agree instead of supporting our thesis on the restoration of the alliance and partnership between the Croats and Bosniaks. The partnership and alliance of Croats and Bosniaks led to the Washington Agreement, led to the Dayton Agreement, an anomaly we have been tracking since 2006 is terrible. If she stays 20 years. I agree that the political position of the Croats is more difficult, but that you will virtually no one attach to us that we have contributed to the worse situation of the Croats in BiH and that God will not, shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104011	Thank you very much. We've got a few injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first order of business, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104012	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. In 238, he demeans MPs and questions. I know that it is politically poor of him to demean this question of my own in this price collection, and I said five times I will collect this water to our citizen, this glass of clear water, clear Cetina instead of building an empire you wash your conscience on BiH, on the Croats forgotten on this issue. Concentrate, Prime Minister. I know you're in trouble and you don't have anything to say but you're just asking the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104013	Thank you, comrade Bulj, thank you, thank you very much. This was a replica and you get a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104014	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. Prime Minister Plenkovic had 4 minutes to boast of his foreign political successes concerning BiH politics, and for 4 minutes he used it to justify Bosniak politics and said that they de facto have reason to refuse to change the election law because he did nothing to protect the position of Croats in BiH, and now instead of taking care of the people of the Cetina region who are obviously irrelevant to him for asking his colleague Bulj, he again burdens us with the Milanovic complex, which should be seriously addressed by institutions and relevant people, here is one at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104015	My colleague Rasudiæ, time has passed, you have broken the Rules of Procedure and you receive, you receive, you receive a warning, and this has also not been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104016	He's been injured. 238. In response to Bulja's question, Prime Minister Plenkovic answered his fellow counterpart, Rasputic, because he dealt with me. I know he'd be very happy for me to disappear and he and the rest of the HDZ from politics, but unfortunately you'll still be watching me for a long time.../Laughter/.... And I can only, unfortunately, you'll be looking at me for a long time, and as far as BiH is concerned, you've actually confirmed with this that you haven't done anything for the Croats, that you justify Bosniak politics, that means their relationship and the majorisation of Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104017	Thank you very much, you get your colleague Grumoja, you get a warning from your colleague, and you've broken the Rules of Procedure, and there's no harm here in the Rules of Procedure. And another injury, Comrade Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104018	Art. 132, this is the current clock and ministers and prime ministers who have been asked the question should answer the question, instead the order is skipped here, answers the previous question, where the answer was not given before, and should have been given. Here's what I can only notice and once again agree to this finding. Obviously we are here, in action now we have the justification of Bosniak Majorisation, and that is what pushes both Brussels and pushes... We could hear it very clearly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what would make me do that you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104019	My colleague Rasdić, time is up, you are being warned, there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure, so you have misused the Rules of Procedure and you are being warned. We have more demands now, Comrade Capulica, and I see a colleague named Zekanovic reporting. Here you go, Comrade Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104020	238, fellow Matko, I told you already, that if you had the honor and dignity to hold if you did not hold your name then you would no longer discuss here, you would no longer raise these violations of the Rules of Procedure, you would no longer report for the word, and also since you are no longer in the politics of your colleague Matko told your colleagues to freely repeat your weights as claims, so under the same conditions, and I am prepared to go to your last representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104021	My fellow Hood, your warning was also not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replication. We have a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104022	238, of course. Some of their engagement on BiH can be reduced to two words by Bruce Lee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104023	And this is also the violation of the Rules of Procedure there was no injury that you explained but you did not know something you said. My colleague Grumo, please choose a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104024	He's been injured. 238nd colleague Kapulica my godfather did not guard 4 million kunas in his garage Dragan Kovacevic, my godfather hired my son in a company that received jobs from the Croatian lottery. I'm clean about corruption, and with your corruption, I don't mean yours specifically, but all of you, and you'll all be in it soon enough, when we come to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104025	You get a second warning from your colleague, you get a second warning from Grumo, please I think you heard from your colleague, Raspoudić, if you have, have you reported for the injury? ... No, no, first a colleague called Rasdic and then Zekanovic, then Kapulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104026	Art. In 238, I will repeat again what I said about Bruce Lee Chesterton's words, says Chesterton why it's important for children to tell fairy tales, not because children that dragons exist, know that dragons don't exist, but children need to be taught that dragons can be fought and that they can be defeated. Bruce Lee taught us about fighting for justice and honesty, and some apparently saw the role model in the great boss of the big boss some read Cardell and quoted, so we obviously had different role models in life. So, I'm standing absolutely behind your Bruce Lee, and you're still standing...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104027	You're getting a second warning, please calm down, we've now moved a little bit to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so I invite you all to stop. Here is my colleague Kapulica and colleague Zekanovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104028	238 you are not dirtier than your February 1989 Matka noun. which... the State Security Service whose convicted bosses are now defending your friend from Pantovich. You are not clean at all, and it is a shame that you can act politically by lying in the eyes of the entire Croatian public And in parallel, repeating those lies. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104029	Another note from my fellow Capulas. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104030	In 238, here's a little recycling, but I'll repeat it for the Croatian public. The only fairy tale in which you Mostoves can be recognized because of the boy wooden boy who lied is Pinocchio or the Russian version of Milanović's version of the story, Tolstoy's version of Buratino, which is a fairy tale where you can recognize yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104031	You're getting a colleague Zekanovic and you're warning because you've hurt your rules of procedure, so I suggest we stop now because now I'm going to have to take the floor off by the end of the debate, so I suggest you stop so we can continue the debate in the afternoon. We still have a fellow Bull's testimony to the prime minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104032	Thank you very much. I expected a serious answer and to offer a solution. HEP has raised 500% of the price of the Cetin region water supply where both part of Split and part of Zagor 500% are supplied. Are we going to turn those pumps off now? Are those pumps gonna cut the water down to Sphinx? It's a message to the prime minister to make a unique public procurement throughout the territory. How will farmers who use this water that households use this water, how will the water supply of the Cetina landscape survive in the first place, but all the mountainous and mountainous areas and also in Drniš area be the mayor here? That's the question. You've collected 500 percent of the electricity for the water line, for the water lines responsible for the water legal areas. You've compromised the supply of drinking water. This liter of water is gold, it's at gas stations more expensive than oil. We don't know about these masters, we haven't protected the water, but we're questioning our citizens if we're going to solve this problem, but the minister doesn't care if the minister is now typing what they're writing to him in the media about what he said to the PR. Ministers 500%, Coric 500% has collected electricity from Cetin region water from 2.5 million to 10.5 million. 10.5 million, don't snap your finger and don't laugh at this. This liter of water will collect 500 percent to the citizens, water from the Kosinca springs clean clear water and you laugh. You pill-washed hands like 10% we've collected to the citizens. What's this people doing? You're giving them back in crumbs. Minister Butkovicu, how fast is the road for 50,000 of these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104033	Thank you, colleague Bulj. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104034	Well, we're not your exploitation field, and it's not just the New Vinodolski...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104035	You're getting a warning from your colleague Bulj. Calm down, everyone, please. You've overstepped a lot of time and you're getting a warning and I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104036	And the Prime Minister didn't go off topic you shouldn't have warned him?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104037	No, no, a few.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104038	And otherwise, in your characteristics, he didn't answer my question. You didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104039	My dear friend, just a little bit, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104040	He responded to Nina Rasdic if he was in pain with the Croats you published in BiH. WikiLeaks is all river.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104041	Just a little buddy Bull, calm down, you didn't bring that bag you forgot something. ... Don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104042	The water from Cetinska...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104043	You forgot your bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104044	WikiLeaks said your position Your position on the Croats about BiH. [[Come on, come on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104045	You get your friend Bull now and your third warning so you can't talk anymore. Come on, calm down, don't be, Easter's just past, so I guess you've had a little bit of an examination. Let's calm down. We should be good to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104046	Ask the people how much oil is there for him, how much water is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104047	We care about the people as opposed to you. It is. Let's move on now, 37th is counterpart Hajdukovic, who is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104049	Thank you very much, President HS. If we have absorbed serious topics like Bruce Lee and the polygraph, we hope to return to the topics that really interest our citizens. The Honorable Prime Minister, after 24 February, the world is no longer the same, with all the security geopolitical and military changes triggered by the war in Ukraine, the great wave of gatherings is what our citizens feel most. To be honest, it's not just for the sake of war in Ukraine, but it's a good part. In March prices rose by 7.3% compared to the same month last year. With transport, energy, shoes and clothing, services, food prices that make up a quarter of the consumer basket notes increased by 10.3% at the annual level. If we add bad agrometeorological opportunities, the passivity of the Minister of Agriculture as well as the fact that we still don't know how much, or what we have in the state supply, it is possible to predict an even greater increase in food prices. If we also consider the fact that hundreds of thousands of our citizens are already living on the edge of poverty, it is justified to fear for their fate in the spin of price growth. My questions, therefore, Prime Minister, are as follows: Which and how much currently we have in the state goods supply, because I understand that the locations of the state supply are secret, but the content should not be at least when it comes to food products. Which we have bought and how much for 600 million kunas as provided for filling state stock, but I am afraid too late because of already recorded price increases, and what measures you are planning to curb inflation, rising prices not only of food but also of other services to our citizens and entrepreneurs facilitate this existential blow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104050	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104051	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic. We talk a lot today about an anti-inflation package worth five billion kunas we know, unfortunately, that inflation due to these two crises, one crown, another Russian invasion, aggression to Ukraine contributed to the rise of energy prices and then the whole chain happened one after another. We decided to help those who were most vulnerable, so social transfers included both electricity and gas charges. It was only for electricity before, plus direct support to households and the economy by reducing electricity prices, gas prices from up to 10% to 20%. These prices would be much higher and domestic budgets would be much harder to monitor. The VAT changes that we have made, adopted here by the Parliament from 25 to 13, from 13 to 5, are also temporary to 5% of all the measures that the government has taken to facilitate all that the state can and would go to the expense of citizens and economies. concrete support for pensioners, a one-time supplement, support for farmers, support for fishermen are all carefully designed measures that have shown that they are complete and that they are going into major problems. Inflation, unfortunately, is a global trend, a trend in Europe. 7.5% is EU inflation. Croatia 7.3% now this month's latest data. That means we're still below. You know we have an anchor, an anchor called the euro zone, an anchor called meeting the criteria taught on the European Course Mechanism two and the Banking Union. We expect these decisions both in June and in July. Credit rating agencies keep us on investment ratings, trust all the measures we're doing. That fact is very good. We recently went to the international financial market with euro bonds of billions and 250 million. Unfortunately, all the interest has grown, so we have grown interest. But there's one detail that's quite indicative. Those who were willing to invest in this ten-year bond because we are refinanced by one who is reaching Croatia in May already see as a member of the euro area. That's very good. And that fact where we expect this effect of inflation to blow and that there will be a opposite trend in the second half of the year, where it is extremely important and good. The state can do something, it can do a lot but it can't do everything. And that's why I'm calling on both you and all the other consumer tracking mechanisms that are monitoring the price control to point out that. We must not allow anyone to profit on a larger margin, at a higher profit at the time when the state is denied by reducing the number of fuel activities, for example, limiting the margins to oil distributors, reducing excise duties and further reducing the biocomponent. Today, gasoline and diesel would have been two kunas more expensive if it hadn't been for those measures. So our activity is comprehensive. I would remind you that in our term of office in various sectors of public and state administration, we have increased salaries for employees between 25% and 40%. When the base increases, the increase in coefficients, the conclusion of border contracts, the agreement, plus tax discharges, and I believe that next week we will also find a compromise that will also allow people to live better. I think we're doing as much as we can. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] If you have any useful ideas We're open to it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104052	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104053	Thank you very much. Well, I can't be satisfied, first of all, because you haven't addressed the other question, which is state stock, and that's why at least in that segment I'm going to ask you a written answer. Now let's get back to the stats. Statistics are the exact sum of incorrect data, and what I said was 7.3% of last year's monthly price hikes, and 10% of the year-on-year translation means that your pound of flour was raised from 50 cents to 1 euro. So it's not 10% it's 100%. In translation, this means that oil is already at 18 to 20 kuna. Now, you can count on people and households who have minimal incomes right now and are now barely joining the end of these stories to mean very little. Many measures are unfortunately thoughtless to the end of the Prime Minister. So let's say the electric and gas vouchers, I've been complained about by many micro and small entrepreneurs because they don't usually have their own properties, the numbers aren't on their names, they're on behalf of whoever owns the place and they don't have access to the vouchers. Similarly, we had, unfortunately, during the Coronation of the Crisis, when it seemed that all these measures were actually set up for large users, so I don't know INA and similar companies used measures, and Pero and Đuro from the market didn't have access to it because they didn't simply meet the conditions that were prescribed to someone. The reduction of VAT is a good measure and we supported it, but we also warned that it would not give us or that experience would teach us that it would not give the desired effects or that prices for end-users would not fall but would be amortised by possible purchases or would only grow margins, which unfortunately prices and show. Therefore, Prime Minister, I call you to a much more responsible and determined fight against inflation and to preserve the standards of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104054	We have three more questions. It is now up to MP Ljubica Lukacic to ask the question of Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104055	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers. Dear Minister Malenica. I want to ask you a question, but first I want to say that the ministry has prepared a series of new legislative proposals. That you, Mr. Minister, have announced more modern and faster court proceedings, have also announced new hard work for judges, digitization of land books, new anti-corruption measures, etc., etc. I'm sure Mr. Minister that all of this together will be a positive push forward and we'll get one better and better-quality judiciary. However, our citizens, Mr. Minister, are interested in what they will have, what will it bring for them? Will he, for example? Immigrant proceedings may continue after 40 years or will decisions be taken within a reasonable period of time? And finally, Mr. Minister, will we finally have a faster and more efficient judiciary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104056	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104057	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as you have also stated in your question and so there are a number of new legislative changes, I must point out here that we have recently brought the National Judicial Development Plan for the next period, this is, together with the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, in fact, a good foundation for the development of the judiciary over the next few years. Here next week in HS are two important procedural laws, it's the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution, through amendments to these two important procedural laws, we are just going towards a more modern judiciary, we have processes, trials that take place within a reasonable period of time, to introduce some new technologies, first of all, the e-communication system in criminal proceedings, we already have it in a litigation procedure. So we agree on one mosaic change in the judiciary we are aware of the need for root changes in the justice system and we are just changing that judiciary, this is seen from the legislative plan for 2022. where we have a whole series of important laws, so I will also announce the Act on Exparation Procedures, which has not been adopted since 1934, so reform of the system of calming because unfortunately this procedure has not been achieved by the Institute as planned, so that we will also change it to disburse the courts and judicial proceedings themselves. In addition to these legislative activities, we have investment in infrastructure, so our goal, with a quality legislative framework, is to have a quality infrastructure of working conditions for the judges themselves, so we have about a billion kuna investment in judicial bodies in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, as you pointed out, we also amend the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the State Attorney's Council, the Law on Judicial Exercises, so that we also influence the efficiency and effectiveness of the participants themselves in this system, and judges and advisers, and also state lawyers are an important element of the judicial system. So we agree on one mosaic change because, as I pointed out, changes are necessary. Every year, over a million cases are resolved in Croatian courts and for this reason a quality legislative framework, quality standards, quality infrastructure should be set up, and we are actually doing so in the Ministry of Justice and Administration. And the NPOO and the National Justice Development Plan where the projected investments worth billions and 800 million kunas in the area of justice are actually the basis for us to move towards change in the judiciary and ultimately have a faster, more efficient, more effective judiciary, that the court proceedings don't last long, that citizens can achieve justice within the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104058	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104059	Thank you. My dear Minister, I thank you for your reply. I am naturally satisfied because I am sure, in fact, what you have done so far already has positive results, but in fact I am sure that you will continue to do everything to make our judiciary truly our citizens and to make it more effective and better. I'm particularly glad that you mentioned that the Law on Judicial Exercises will go because I think that a new people really need to come into the judicial system, young people who have their knowledge in some way would say and bake in courts, learn to work there, acquire new knowledge and new skills and stay really in that system because they are certainly the best and the best people there is. I thank him once again, and I am sure that our judiciary will indeed be better and better quality and that our citizens will be more satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104060	The 39th question of a respected colleague, Andro Krstulovic, Opara, raises the question of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104061	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104062	Wait a minute. Take it easy. Wait. He's asking questions from the culture minister and the media, Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Ministers and Ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For a little while in this Croatian home, we had an opportunity to see another one of the plays that needed a group of populists in the Parliament that should have attracted media attention and filled the first pages. Unfortunately, today will not be important news in the media, and it is that today 150 years since the death of Ljudevit Gaja, the man who is in the building you will see when you leave the meeting room down those steps you will see Radicovova 32 in which he printed Danica Ilirska, Danica Horvatska, who should have infused the Croatian language and made us written. Is that how we behave today? Do we remember that giant? Are we worthy of these giants? I had a need to say this, Mr. President, because I cannot tolerate a dictionary like this in this holy house. My question is to the Minister of Culture and Media. The public is increasingly talking about lawsuits against journalists, so-called journalists. The waterfall with the lawsuits. Croatia is said to be at the top of such lawsuits. We also see that the whole aggression of individual officials and politicians is so great towards journalists such as the Mayor of Split, who wants to force a journalist to self-censorship with aggression. What can the Croatian State do in the first place about regulating this great phenomenon that burdens Croatia and the Croatian public, which enables free journalism and free expression of their thoughts in a noble, civilized and fair way, and against those forces that harm Croatian media public space with their lawsuits and with their aggression? Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104064	Here's the answer... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104065	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. It's nice of you to mention Guy, and here's the call. The pages of the National and University Library always mark such anniversary and send, and today they have sent a beautiful message and reminded us of the 150 years of Gaia. You mentioned blindness. It is indeed a phenomenon of these strategic lawsuits against public participation that is present in many countries, not only in Croatia, but also in the Commission, the European Commission has launched a working group dealing with "blind" in Croatia. We also formed one expert group a year ago together with the Ministry of Justice, which is shared by media experts, journalists, publishers, judges, representatives of law schools, lawyers, therefore, all those involved in this topic with the goal of actually seeing how we can combat this negative trend. What is needed and what we have established through the work of the expert group and through the workshops that have been implemented so far is necessary to balance the case-law, it is necessary to work on the education of journalists, judges, to consider the possible improvement of media legislation, but even before it strengthens the regulation itself, the co-regulation and within the media but related to the unification of judicial practice within the judiciary so that judges and judicial employees of those who come to the table know when it comes to a truly well-founded lawsuit, and when it comes to blinding, therefore, to a number of lawsuits which want to be pressured and under the threat of later fines actually achieve that journalists withdraw and some topics are not reported. In public, it's always about politicians. Yes, there are politicians who reach out to the team. But there are businessmen, but unfortunately there are court workers who also actually file lawsuits against the media to silence them when they write about their processes. Trends aren't good. But what encourages less of these lawsuits this year compared to the previous years. And I hope that such a trend continues. It's a huge number of lawsuits and a very small number ends up with a verdict. However, the process itself is exhausting and the fear of financial repercussions is something that brings journalists into a situation that they prefer not to report on some topics. This practice is followed by international organisations. According to their indicators, Croatia is not at the top of how, unfortunately, it is sometimes deliberately misinformed by some organisations. But it's a phenomenon present. Let's remember and Croatia's broadcasting unfortunately launched a whole series of lawsuits a few years ago, and they were all later withdrawn which is good. In the end, what you mentioned about the behaviour of the mayor of Deputy Mr. Puljak is not blind. It was indeed an inappropriate way of communication, one intimidation from the position of power condemned by journalists of Free Dalmatia, but also by all those who follow the media. And I hope and believe that the Split public will say something about it in the recent elections, so that it will also say that any politician's behaviour towards the media or political options towards the media is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104066	Here's your representative's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104067	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm happy with your answer. Yeah, it's not "blind" but it's a negative way, an aggressive way of communicating with a former activist who's become a public person, and he's used to a hard-worded activist who's been previously referred to public figures. He is not used to the new role, and he is actually burdening himself with his role, and his duty as well as Croatian public media space if you will. I will remind myself of the European Court of Human Rights' position that the politician is inevitably and consciously exposed to that examination of every word and deed both to the press and to the public and, in general, therefore, must show a higher degree of tolerance accordingly, and I would say both decency and restraint. That's not the case here. You mentioned the same important thing, and that unifying court practice fact is that such a way of talking is our case law actually allowed. And allowed the slander of pure and just men. And she created a chaos that is completely inappropriate, where you have people and we were aware that many public officials were convicted, brought before the court, later released but were forever blacked out. No one has been responsible for this and therefore the introduction of rules not only blindly to protect journalists, to protect public space for the sake of and to protect the facts for the protection of public interest is primarily necessary to calm our passions, introduce decency, abstention and quality communication in the Croatian public space, as well as our society. I thank you for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104068	And the last 40th question, counterpart Stipe Mlinaric will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104069	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Plenkovic, I wrote you an open letter from what's on my heart. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. I write you this open letter with a deep conviction that it's never too late to do good, especially it's never too late to do good for your people and for the state that trusts you to manage. With this open letter to the entire Croatian public, I call once again for the immediate launch of an interstate lawsuit for war damage by aggressors in the Homeland War. I call on you to draw up on behalf of the Croatian Government the best legal team to press a real, sovereign and complete suit against the Republic of Serbia for aggression in the International Court of the Hague. Croatia but also world history must clearly remember who was the aggressor in our defensive Homeland War. 30 years after the war, our dead civilians and our dead defenders are still taking us out of the morgue and from dumps like those from Bobota and Petrovica Valley, and we still don't have an adequate international verdict that will undoubtedly define and in history seal who was the aggressor and who was the victim. You are aware that in a 2021 verdict against the former head of Serbia's security service Stanisic and Sinatrovic for crimes against the non-Serb population in '92. years of explicit and clear indication of the possibility of war damage suit that Croatian campers are entitled to incarcerated in Serbian war camps. You are charged with over 20,000 Croatian defenders and civilians who have passed through Serbian camps. You account for over half a million former exiles who have been and lost everything. On you is the justice of the innocent. You're counting on the truth that's been disproved. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Mlinaric.]] I'll hand it to you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104070	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104071	Thank you very much, Mr. Mlinaric. We'll study the letter, then we'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104072	You have two minutes to show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104073	Yes, before you study it here I will tell you in these two minutes today when Europe met with the brutal aggression of Russia on Ukraine you have engaged in it and all the honor of it. But everything we look at in Ukraine happened in '91. years in Croatia. Because we know today who the aggressor is in Ukraine? I think we know. I know it's Russia. And do we know who the aggressor is in Croatia? We don't know, we don't have any convictions, we don't have a convicted JNA General Staff. We don't have a single ruling from the International Court of Justice to say who the aggressor is and who the victim is. You once told me in a conversation between the two of us that Croatia filed a lawsuit and that you were right in '99. years, but she filed a genocide suit. The one who filed a lawsuit either had no good intentions or was a bad lawyer. You're a better lawyer than I am, and you and I both know that genocide wasn't, but that the terrible war crimes was a fact. That's a fact. Therefore, I urge you to sue them for war crimes, to sue them for camps, to sue them for the damages of the people who lost their homes, in their villages that were burned down. I invite you to sit with Serbia at last. Not war, but try to find our missing, not find them in the dump for 30 years. Mr. Plenkovic, I'm telling you now because I'm sure Minister Medved never told you that. These people weren't transferred for finding them at Bobota's. These people were killed in that dump 30 years ago. Every grandmother in Bobota knew they were there. So much for your coalition partners to be honest with you. Every grandmother in Bobota knew where they were killed, where they were buried. No one wanted to say, and mothers have been suffering for 30 years, and they can't bury their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104074	This is what the ladies and gentlemen of the council have come to the end of the current morning. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in I would just like to inform you that in the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, a total of 726 parliamentary questions were raised in writing and 620 were answered. The government of the Republic of Croatia, or individual members, has not yet answered 76 parliamentary questions that are not yet within the deadline, so the deadline has not yet expired for them. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I call on the government to deliver answers to questions they have not answered so far. I'm also taking a break now until 14 o'clock and 50 minutes. After that, we have a free speech. When the free speech is over we will also have a break depending on how long it will last and at 4:00 we continue our work. MEETING IN 14.27 HOURS Honorable MPs and respected MPs, we continue our work. - Report on the informal meeting of EU leaders held in Brussels on 17 February 2022, the EU-African Union Summit held in Brussels on 17 and 18 February 2022, the extraordinary meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 February 2022, the informal meeting of EU leaders in Versailles on 10 and 11 March 2022, and the regular meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 and 25 March 2022. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 16:19 HOURS]] The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11. Law on the cooperation of HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. Before the Prime Minister gets his word we have several requests for a break, first up is counterpart Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104076	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club to recall the greatest foreign political success of the current prime minister we can read from this report. Of course, it is about what he managed to do for the Croats in BiH in his term. Earlier in the current hour, we could hear scandalous statements by our prime minister, where he de facto justified the Bosnian enforcement of amendments to the Electoral Law by grasping part of Milanovic's syntagma, as if there was anything that could be said, and to justify any counter-constitutional action, and the change of the Electoral Law is necessary in BiH so that we could even talk about a law that is in accordance with the constitution and which ensures what is most important to us is the equality of the people in BiH. His statements have already sparked a significant echo in BiH, so we can now read about how he was more like Ali Izetbegovic's megaphone today than he who cares for the position of Croats in BiH. But when we talk about what our foreign policy has done to fight for the rights of Croats in BiH, we need to send a key message today, and that is that almost game over has done nothing, there is an election call in early May, and that is it. In this term, elections will be called without amendments to the election law, the equality of Croats in BiH is not ensured and there is no more sense that this government is talking about the situation of Croats in BiH because today it is clear that the game is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104077	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104078	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and RF Club for 10 minutes, and it's triggered by this very item of the agenda that we're going to be dealing with right now. So here we will hear about the great successes of Andrej Plenkovic on the external political agenda, I am talking about formal and informal meetings of the EU and EU leaders. One of them was here from March 10th to March 11th, colleagues and colleagues right at the time of the fall of a drone in Zagreb, one would expect someone there to mention it. This is where we got it in one paragraph at the end of this report, where it says that the Prime Minister wrote a letter. He did not mean to speak live even though he was physically present there, the leaders who were able to respond at that time did not respond to him, but Plenkovic wrote a letter. Then we had a formal meeting on March 24th and 25th, so one would hope that Plenkovic and those to whom he should have reported it would have been prepared, perhaps saying something about a potential attack on one of the NATO alliance members. No, it wasn't about this attack either, or the drone crash, although in our public we could already conclude that it was about a UFO missile that wasn't quite clear what it was really about, and nothing was said there, and the letter was forgotten. It seems that Andrej Plenkovic has no one to write to, that Garcia Marquez "There is no one to write to", it seems that there is no one left to write to our prime minister either, and the conclusion of these reports and we would have to take this into account and read them carefully, so we could also lecture the Prime Minister to adopt a reminder that it is not Moldova and Belarus but Moldova and Belarus who is already writing these reports might look back on it, but what we see here, colleagues and colleagues in this report, unfortunately, is a funny position and Andrej Plenkovic in foreign politics, and we are also also together with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104079	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104080	The Honorable Presidents of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. I'm going to point out again the fact that it's an art. Versus 144. 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed to represent the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council in accordance with their powers as Government and President of the Republic of Croatia. The current practice ignores the fact that the Prime Minister and the Government, in accordance with the constitution, must conduct foreign policy only within the frameworks co-creation, co-created between the president of the state and the president of the government. It is hard to believe that Croatia can be positioned either in the EU, whether at international level if we have two foreign policies and if not a single question is co-created, and we will find it hard to believe that cooperation exists if the Prime Minister tells the Prime Minister that he is dirty Plenkovic, and you, the Honorable Prime Minister, are telling the Prime Minister that he is a Pantovic caries. All of this is damaging to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no better situation in security, because these security services too need to be managed together. All together, one great national disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104081	The apartment is approved. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104082	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to remind once again that the foreign policy committee of this assembly has considered the strategic compass in that first version where there has been no mention of the equality of three constituent peoples in BiH, where the foreign policy committee has asked the government to advocate entering this strategic compass, when it has criticised the government that it cannot do so, that only here in Croatia is it talking, and when it comes to Brussels, it fails to include it in documents and then we see that, however, on the European Council, where the prime minister explained what views are not only of Croatia, but those who really want good BiH to insist on the equality of three constituent peoples and how the text of the strategic compass, which is a key strategic document of EU action in the coming period. And so the government fulfilled exactly what the Assembly was looking for through the foreign policy board and now some are criticizing it and saying it's not good or it's not enough, and that's exactly what we asked from the parliament and what the government has done. Therefore, I am asking for a break just to point out that the government has fulfilled exactly what the Assembly has sought and included in the EU strategic document although not all members of the EU, of course, and we saw that from the first draft, we were in favour of it. So we had to fight it, we had to get the consent of all the countries to come in and this was done and we want to value it once again the importance of having just such a formulation entered into the EU strategic compass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104083	We have one violation of the rules of procedure of colleague Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104084	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. You here want us to clap to you that you managed to fight for it to say that water is wet, that what is in the Constitution is written in other documents. Well, congratulations. We are not interested in documents, we are interested in documents for the sake of practice, and the practice is whether the election law will change before the elections and that is the only thing that interests the Croats in BiH. The elections are going, the election law has not changed, the game over has not been corrected in this term you have done nothing and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and BiH must know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104085	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, you get a warning, you abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and you get it as a second reminder. You have three. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104086	Art. 238, precisely because we're being demeaned that we're saying we didn't do anything, what's that supposed to be? Write columns in the Banja Luka newspaper? Is this the kind of policy that Milorad Dodik leads or leads a policy that is in the interest of the Croatian people in BiH? So, what's now being put into the strategic compass and what we asked in the assembly to build a government and the government did it. We've all been looking for it on the foreign policy committee and [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The government did it. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Stier.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104087	You're getting a warning. So I'm just warning you that there are warnings being transmitted, some of you who have two will get a third and you won't be able to take part in this debate anymore, those of you who have three will get a distance from today's session so be careful. You're looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure, no matter what. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104088	He's been injured. 238nd fellow Stier should not be written in the Banja Luka newspaper but should go to Republika Srpska's celebrations in Banja Luka as representatives of this government go. And Prime Minister Plenkovic today made a scandalous statement, not only about this first soap and perfume, he attacked Croatian requirements for the third entity and justified Bosniak hegemonism with the fair demands that result That's exactly the kind of Bosniak policy [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grumoja.]] He also attacked the seventh conclusion.../The speaker turned off./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104089	Thank you very much. You get a third warning and you lose the right to debate in this point. Please turn off the microphone just so I can talk to others. Yeah, but you need to turn off the microphone. [[I've been kicked out of the session.]] And you don't exist anymore. And you're still there as a ghost, and you almost believe that you exist. Dear fellow Pavić, please choose a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104090	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238th well, if someone made it for the BiH Croats, it's this government. Not only did the strategic compass come into the constitution as my colleague Stier said, it was a request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Assembly. Also for the first time, so much has been debated at the European Council on BiH and the rights of Croats, so if someone did so, this government has done so and Croatian citizens will appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104091	My colleague Pavić, this was a replica you're getting a warning from. Comrade Bull, you are reporting, so I told you to take the risk that you will be without the right to participate today all day long.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104092	Well, you're already claiming in advance that I'm this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104093	No, I'm not just warning you not to be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104094	You've already decided that I'm gonna do this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104095	Just so you don't get surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104096	Thank you very much. He's been injured. The 238th demeaning of MPs, especially Croats in BiH, not which you failed, but still paint them. So in a few days elections will be called, the old law remains, the Croats down as a constituent people do not have the right of a national minority, and on the Chetnic parties in Banja Luka colleagues Stier, Pavic, Plenkovic, your key people from the government, Milorad Pupovac, who runs you. He's a Banja Luka link to your Mr. Stier, Plenkovic. Deura, Djakic is still the heroes. [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104097	You're getting a warning, and you've got to leave the session now, unfortunately, for today, that's your fourth warning, and that's a strict measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104098	What about pardoning anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104099	I'm sure I won't do that to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104100	To Ivo Sanader...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104101	Well, we might as well, considering how it went who knows what's going to happen, yeah. Let's move on to colleague Radoje Vidovic's breach of the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104102	Art. 238th Honorable Speaker of the Assembly, disdaining parliamentary representatives. As someone who comes from BiH, I want to make it clear, thanks to the work and commitment of this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, it is still under discussion in BiH at all about amending the electoral law, and thanks to the successes of the foreign policy plan, the story will remain current until the final goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104103	Your colleague Vidovic and you deserve a warning. We continue now, colleagues and colleagues I ask you now that we have two more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, this has nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure that the Prime Minister may speak, I think we are all interested in what happened at these European Council sessions. Here you go, colleague Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104104	I thank the President, Article 238, so the position of the Croatian people is spoken of by people who have not lost one second of their free time to help us. All these years since 500 amendments have not been applied to any area in BiH, they have not spoken to any group of students, from doctors, from farmers, from any of them to help us. We serve political bickering here in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104105	You are being warned by your colleague Barbaric. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104106	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238, who are these two who have now spoken, who are you, then first, I hear by the emphasis that you are from BiH, and I hear for the first time [[Agreement: Col. Troscott, colleague of Troscott.]] For the first time I've heard, I've heard you defend for the first time. [[You're getting, just a little bit, just a little bit, hold on.]] and talk about the Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Stop, stop, please stop, stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104107	A fellow Troscott you get, you get, you get the first warning right now. This is very rude and ugly for colleagues who are coming and who are representatives of the Croatian people right from BiH. How can you act like that? How can you not be ashamed? This is very, very rude and I didn't expect you to do such a thing. It's really not right. Sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's stop now, let's stop because this, this is not the point of this point we're discussing right now. You really surprised me fellow Troscott this, this according to your colleagues to do it, I didn't expect it [[/Intruder: That's terrible, that's terrible.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104108	People in Herzegovina ask me yesterday what three BiH deputies are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104109	Comrade Thunder, you have received three warnings, please, please colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104110	What's wrong with you, HDZ Zekanovic? What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104111	You'll get a fourth warning and you'll have to get out. I'm begging you. [[Poor thing.]] Comrade Zekanovic, please stop now. We're going to have some more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Mazhar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104112	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Infringement of Article 238, a colleague of Troscott not only insulted fellow MPs, demeaned not only the Croatian Parliament, but all members of the Croatian people and BiH, because unlike you who have the greatest chance of making a monument in BiH that has nothing to do with BiH, HDZ not only wins the elections in Croatia and BiH but also has representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament. from the ranks of the Croatian people. [[Employer: A fellow Mažar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104113	Comrade Mazhar, this was a replica, so you're also getting a warning, and I've already given my colleague Troscott a warning. Here's your colleague, Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104114	This was below every level, 238th insult, I don't remember anyone going this low. So, Your Honor, the two of us are in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia elected to this assembly and we are not worth any less than any of you. Unlike you, we are through various activities fighting for the position of our people and not politics on and not paralysing the problems that have hit us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104115	Comrade Barbaric, I'm sorry, but I have to give you a warning, you were really offended by your colleague Troscott, but this was a replica so I'm giving you a warning. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104116	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. What Col. Troscott said today in the Croatian Assembly was unmarked here in this assembly. That two MPs who have legitimacy and are representatives of the Croatian peoples from BiH question who they are, primarily talks about him personally, but also about the Most entirely. Mr. Barbaric is a colleague of Troscott four times elected in special elections for the mayor of Ljubusko. You're this way in front of all the citizens. Ljubusko and all members of the Croatian people in BiH [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] And you must be ashamed. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić.]] And once you had the chance to say something concrete on the position of Croats in BiH... [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104117	.../Intruder: You're getting a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104118	Mr. President. You fled the assembly and did not support the legitimate positions of HDZ here in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104119	You are now being warned by your colleague Bačić, I will have to give you two warnings because one for the injury of the Rules of Procedure that was not and the other for getting out of time. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104120	Article 238, so let no one here be angry we just asked what these people are doing. Officially, they entered the Croatian Parliament on the lists, however...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104121	My colleague Troscott has been offended by the MPs. I'm giving you a second warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104122	Just a little bit, just a little bit, so the fact that they're about nominally in the assembly, so the fact real on the ground happens to be in the place...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104123	You get your fellow Troscott now and your third warning, so I'm taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104124	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104125	Please sit down. I'm a colleague of Deur's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104126	Thank you, Your Honor. 238, breach of the Rules of Procedure, injury of the MPs. For Mr. Troscott, I'm not surprised at that, he didn't even distinguish Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, he doesn't differ as from the whole of MOST one while the Croatian people were bleeding they were making Bruce Lee monuments, doing BiH citizens' initiatives without recognising how much the Croatian people bled. Now they become believers, patriots all by the direction of the Pantovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104127	You get a warning from your colleague Deur, this was a replica. Let's go with, away with, someone looking for a break I don't see anyone else, colleague Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104128	On behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the Green-Left Block, I'm looking for a break after these violations of the Rules of Procedure just so we can take a moment to see what we're doing here. We are watched by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia where we should discuss the meetings that the prime minister had on the European Council. Things we don't really have a chance to talk about so often and what we turn into personal accounts, drilling into a patriotic chest who's a bigger Croat and who's a bigger friend to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not how politics is run. It's tribal accounts of a colleague and a colleague, it's below level. We have a big document to discuss today. Let's not run a European policy, and he's asking us all something here about it like we're in a bar at 2:00 in the morning. It's inappropriate and it's, none of us have been chosen for it. We have opportunities for such discussions in some other formats, but not in this format, not in this place and not in these topics. People die not so far from us, and the only thing that matters to us is who's a bigger Croat because that's what it looks like. That's exactly what it looks like. That's what I hear when Mariupolus is about to fall, while I hear about the generations that are happening in Ukraine right now as a Vukovar makes me sick. And when we need to talk about it here, it's what it's like, here's what I don't know what else to tell you. We can be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104129	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Then we will continue to work now, so I would like to invite the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, to further explain the report. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104130	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to have the opportunity to hold a regular debate today on the conclusions of the European Council, on a series of meetings held in the first quarter. Allow me before the speech just to draw attention to Mrs. Peović's representatives page seven Reports, read carefully the Prime Minister informed his colleagues at a meeting on the first information. You don't read well, then you're wrong, you're falsely speaking, you're lying. But lying is obviously one sport in Croatian politics that is very widespread, and then you join it. I advise you, for your integrity, not to do so. Secondly, I have to look back at this truly stunning, reckless and rude statement by Troscott, which offended two MPs in the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Barbaric, Mr. Vidovic, people from central Bosnia, people who were elected from Herzegovina to the Croatian electoral unit outside Croatia, together with Zdravko Busic. This is something to say to your colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, not that it is unmarked, but it is shameful, unremembered, you will remain a domicile while you exist, and not only while you are a representative in the Assembly that you have dared to say it, and it comes from the ranks of the quasi-mutant about the position of the Croats in BiH, like these colleagues of yours, who already sent Capulica to a political retirement because he is a liar and does not respect the agreements that were publicly accepted on TV and others that protects the mentor of the Most, and that is a cavities from Pantovic to ensure some small visibility at a relatively early time when perhaps someone is following the meetings of the Parliament. But it's you. I've seen you better than before. I'm sorry we even had to deal with you, even though you were in a completely different system back then. Even some nice people who were in that party left the Most in time and what I know would not have been as much business with you as we have. As long as there are some naives who think that something serious can be done with you, I wish them good luck. But let's get back to the report on what's important. So, a very intense period is behind us. For the first three months of several regular meetings, which are extraordinary, which is a meeting with the African Union, which are topics occupied by the world and European public since we are in a situation where the pandemic has surfaced again in China, we must be careful what scenario awaits us in early 2022, that is, in the autumn when possible circumstances can change. But the key and main theme behind us is the topic concerning the Russian invasion of Ukraine8n, which began on February 24th. The act of aggression that violated international law, the Charter of the United Nations, has compromised the foundations of the international order is the biggest test of European and transatlantic solidarity and renewed strategic co-operation since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The invasion of Ukraine has caused tectonic disturbances of global proportions especially for the EU, which has been facing the biggest war conflict since World War II at its borders. Three dimensions of this crisis. The first is the terrible fate of the Ukrainian people, who are faced with terrible human sacrifices and destruction, millions of exiled, and the territorial conquests of their country and by the lack of their identity, sovereignty and freedom. The second concerns the consequences of Russia's aggression for European security, primarily in defence of our values and credibility as a partner of Ukraine and a global actor. The third brings systemic disorders, disturbances related to the supply of energy, supply and production of agricultural products, economic, food and transport consequences of war and related sanctions. Of course there is also a great humanitarian aspect and humanitarian tragedy, more than 10 million people in only 56 days had to leave their homes, nearly 5 million people already outside Ukraine, in Croatia 15 thousand Ukrainians have arrived so far. In these circumstances, the EU and Croatia show solidarity, unity and determination, above all in humanitarian terms, unity in political terms in condemning Russian aggression through 5 packages of economic sanctions and willingness to jointly overcome the consequences of these sanctions. The determination we have shown by a clear determination towards independence from Russian energy, which is the intention to stop importing Russian oil, gas and coal, are far-reaching and require the preparation of alternative supply routes and new links in the energy sector in Europe. Croatia has genuine and friendly relations with Ukraine. Ukraine first admitted us, that's what I was talking about at that special session when we had a point about Ukraine at the very beginning of aggression. We support her sovereignty and integrity. We have sent valuable humanitarian aid, received 15 thousand refugees, sent medical aid, delivered military technical assistance, sent demining equipment, supported the opening of an investigation of the International Criminal Court of War Crimes, supported the European perspective of Ukraine, which is also defended in this war and fought for its existence, and the implementation of a declaration signed by President Zelenski in Kiev in December, before this situation that we have been anticipating so that it could happen. In this respect, the European Council will discuss Ukraine's request for EU membership. I talked to President Zelenski about this in detail the other night. The Commission, once Ukraine has responded to the political part of the questionnaire, will prepare its opinion and Croatia will help Ukraine, we want it to receive a special institutional status in these circumstances compared to the EU. Restrictive measures ranging from financial, energy, transport sector, dual-intention goods, arms control, export financing, Russian citizens' lists, visa bans and freezing of property are indeed complete. Croatia also made a decision to reduce the number of members of the diplomatic mission at the Russian Embassy in Croatia. The Russian invasion of Ukraine initiated and accelerated the debate on strengthening the Union's security and defence capabilities. We agreed on an increase in defence separation and increased focus on areas where shortcomings have been observed, on encouraging investments in joint projects and joint procurement of defence capacities, on further investment in the ability to lead missions and operations, on strengthening synergies between research and innovation in civil and military areas, as well as on investing in critical new technologies. We have also highlighted the need to strengthen resilience to cyber-hazards and better protection of infrastructure. In addition, our priorities continue to combat misinformation, as well as strengthening the security and defence dimension of the space industry and technology, and military mobility across the Union. The important aspect of achieving these objectives is strengthening transatlantic co-operation, and co-operation between the Union and NATO. We also discussed this with American President Biden, with whom we have a high degree of agreement on the willingness to fight together against Russian aggression and its consequences. During the debate on the informal council in Versailles just at the time when we agreed at the head level on Russia's aggression against Ukraine in Zagreb, a drone fell. Immediately after the event, I met my colleagues orally the same night that it happened, and the next morning, he briefed them in detail. I also sent them a letter to all the heads of state and government, NATO Secretary-General, and I also spoke to US Secretary of State Blinken on the subject. As you have seen in the meantime, there have been reconnaissances and investigations, what we know more about the drone that fell, what we don't know if she came here by mistake, sabotage or intent. In any case, the fact that it had just fallen on the Croatian capital during the debate on the European Council's statement on Russia's aggression in Ukraine is indicative. But as you saw we reacted immediately, and our allies and partners and the United States and France were with their planes either with the carriers of the plane Charles de Gaulle who was in the Adriatic or... flew and sent a message to the safety of the Croatian sky in relation to everything they do in the current operation that protects the sky of Member States that directly border with Ukraine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given Russia's importance as energy exporter, the important topic of the talks was dependence on Russian energy. It has been concluded that the Union needs to exploit this situation and strengthen its energy independence and rely more on its own resources, especially when it comes to gas. You have seen that the Commission has published communication for a joint European action for a more affordable, safer and sustainable energy containing a series of measures for independence of Russian fossil speech before 2030. Part of the country, and in particular the Southern members, are committed to setting the upper limit and fixing the reference prices. In particular, the importance of ingested natural gas is stressed as a possible basis for the complete end of the supply of gas from Russia. All emphasise the need for diversification of energy sources and the necessity for the Union to maintain its unity on this subject. It will therefore be important to strengthen the connectivity and interoperability for gas and electricity, and all this is ultimately on the trail of the Union's climate neutrality policy until 2050. Our own infrastructure, which is LNG terminal in Omislj on the island of Krk, has significantly changed Croatia's position on energy independence. Because of this terminal in Krk, Croatia today is much less dependent on Russian gas than it would have been if it had not been there. Russian gas is 22% of Croatian annual consumption, 57% of Croatia imports through LNG terminals in Krk, and 21% are domestic. As regards rising energy prices, we have informed each of us, and of course I as president of the Croatian Government about all the measures we have taken to mitigate price growth and support the economy and citizens. We expect this debate to continue on a special council that will be exclusively linked to energy on 30 and 31 May. In an economic sense, we want to strengthen our resilience, use all the resources available from next generation's EU instrument, make an effort to achieve its strategic goals in this period of crisis, and they are just this year ahead of us. So this is the year of delivery, the year of delivery of the Schengen, the year of delivery of the Eurozone, and it is therefore very important that in such complicated circumstances we meet everything we promised, the action plan is over for the European Course Mechanism 2, and I am sure that we have met absolutely all the criteria with the Schengen. The topic that has been discussed here today is BiH's topic and a push for the position of Croats as an equal and constitutive people in BiH. As you have been aware of the consultations and talks on this topic practically for the past two years, since the deal in Mostar that allowed the elections in Mostar to be held after 12 years which is good and positive for this city, we wanted to reach an agreement between Bosniak and Croatian political parties. The international community's activity over the past period, which is a joint engagement of both the EU and the United States, went towards finding a solution that would correct the anomaly, correct the injustice, correct the harmful practice that has existed since 2006, where both the letter of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH Bosniaks as a number of constituent people in the Federation of Croats are elected by their members of the BiH presidency. We have often said that it is unfair, that it is harmful, that it is bad, that it creates mistrust, that it causes dissatisfaction with Croats and that such practice will continue to endanger BiH's functioning. It is precisely thanks to our commitment that the international community has accepted this debate in the first place. What is very important for those of you who have not been dealing with these years, but that is, you have become a suitable foreign politician in the last ten months, and those who have led the Croatian foreign policy before us have been able to talk about this, but they have never been in this way. Never so far at European Council level, and especially in the strategic compass and at the level of foreign ministers and a document adopted by the European Council, the equality of the constituent peoples as a reference was not there. This may seem notorial to you, it seems simple, it acts as a copying of the constitution, but it is not. There are countries that have even decided to go into the fus note and put this expression verbis into the document, that is Germany, that is the Netherlands, that is Belgium, that is Luxembourg, it is unfortunately our even Czech Republic. And these are the bad things they say about something, they talk about the imposed attitude in the international community that has primarily generated the political narrative of Sarajevo. The Croats in political terms have been missing for nearly two decades in Sarajevo, and that fact is partly the reason why all international representatives who spend down there finally adopt the narrative. Changing it after so many years is extremely difficult, those who don't know it didn't think it was easy, that everyone knows about BiH what Croats know in BiH and Croatia. They don't know, they don't know, they don't even want to know and they don't have time. But that is why we have done everything, not only for the first time was the debate on the European Council and adopted conclusions on our proposal, not only have the constituent peoples mentioned in the strategic compass, not only have they been engaged at the highest level of EU representatives but even on this last European Council, we have shown willingness on our proposal to include European leaders at the highest level and solve this problem. Unfortunately, the Bosniak political parties do not want that, it is clear to us better than you do. Who's to blame? I'm sure we don't. It is responsible for those who do not want to reach an agreement and who wants to leave BiH as badly functioning as we do now, where the RS entity is practically working to be a state for itself within the state, and that there is a mistrust within the Federation between Croats and Bosniaks, that the parliamentary assembly does not meet, that the Council of Ministers meets five, six times a year, that the budget is not adopted and that is not what we want. We want a functioning BiH, that is what our representatives here from BiH want and that is Croatia's position as a friendly country of BiH, BiH with the best intentions in the end, a few of us here have done more to submit BiH's application for EU membership than any authority that existed in Croatia at the time. We know this very well, and we will not allow anyone to give us anything about who he is and what he did for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially someone who has done nothing but pours oil on fire and prevents a deal between the Croats and Bosniaks. It's a shame and it's a mistake. These meetings that were behind us were turbulent, they came at the time of Europe's greatest security threat, the greatest security threat to the world. It is essentially about the conflict between authoritarian regimes and democracy. That's what's happening between Russia and Ukraine. The point is that Russia denies Ukraine's identity, is that Russia's current leadership wants to correct political mistakes, historical errors by earlier Russian leaders under allegations. Unfortunately for the damage of the Ukrainians, to the damage of the whole of Europe and to the damage in Croatia. Because the reflections of this crisis have consequences for all of us. We all know if the current is more expensive, we all know if the gas is more expensive, we all know if the food is more expensive, we all know if there was a disturbance in the energy supply chain. We will lead our policy firmly, boldly, in principle on the principles and for the benefit of Croatian national interests, especially for those who do not even know who are representatives from BiH and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104131	Thank you. Let's go now, first we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 of the insult of the MPs has been injured. Namely, not getting into the affinities or animosities I have toward certain colleagues and colleagues, and I have them, I think it's signifying that the prime minister is accusing and talking about lying in politics. I'll just remind you, Prime Minister, you are the president of a party whose prominent members have said, "I never lie just sometimes tell lies," or I quote, "Sometimes I lie but immediately afterwards I go to confession." Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104133	Your colleague Hajdukovic is being warned. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104134	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The promoter, or speaker Mr Plenkovic, dedicated three minutes of his speech to what he thought of individual parliamentary representatives with an emphasis from MOST colleagues. I am sure that the debate on this was not at any informal meeting of the EU Council, that Mr Plenkovic did not mention colleagues from MOST anywhere. I'm so surprised he devoted three minutes to them in the presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104135	My colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, you are being warned. Comrade Peovic, come in. I don't think anyone who's intelligent understands why the lady got a warning. Here you go, fellow Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104136	Thank you. 238th Indecency of a parliamentary representative. The prime minister said I'm reading poorly and I'm lying, so I'd like you to warn him that he's insulting the MP. After that, he told me to look at page seven, so I'll tell you my colleagues and colleagues what it says on page seven, which I mentioned in my presentation, that it's one of the parameters in which the prime minister reports that he was talking about the plane crash, but then he wrote a letter, and now we've had 20 minutes of exposure. He could've told me now if anyone answered his letter. Of course no one answered his letter. [[Intruder President: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104137	My colleague Peović and you are...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104138	.../Intruder Plenkovic: You're lying again./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104139	Please, Prime Minister, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104140	.../Intruder Plenkovic: No, no. But liars should be told they're liars.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104141	No, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104142	.../Intruding Plenkovic: No, not enough of this./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104143	No, no, wait for Prime Minister. We can't do that. This is the Croatian Parliament, there are rules. They'll get a colleague's notice, and please, I can't give you a warning. I agree that they should be telling the truth, but I'll take care of it. My colleague broke the Rules of Procedure, and she'll get a warning. Please! Yes, you did. The Prime Minister can't get a warning, I can only warn him like I warned him. Those are the rules they write in the Rules of Procedure, so read them as well. ... No warning, dear colleague. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Warnings are for MPs, for the government's representatives they can just verbally draw attention. Thank you very much. You'll get another warning, that's enough! Now let's go with the replicas. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104144	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I will focus on part of the report on the summit meeting, the European Union, the African Union, which took place on February 17th to 18th and on health systems, i.e. vaccines. You say here in the report that Africa has donated over 700,000 doses of vaccines against SARS COV-2 virus and the plan is another 550,000. Of course, it is noble to help the needy, and that is why I do not understand why more than 275,000 doses of vaccines were allowed to fail in the Republic of Croatia. So, it's out of date. Who made the appointment? I personally warned at the Health Committee’s meeting in time that deadlines were being conducted, due to the time limits but apparently someone had messed up. Why these doses have not been donated in time to other countries and how many have actually been donated so far. Do you have that information? And another part, the small part is actually in the report dedicated Health [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Okay. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104145	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104146	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Why the doses were donated primarily because one part of the people in Croatia did not want to be vaccinated. Ask those who have spread anti-propagand for vaccination, who have responded more than 30% of adults in Croatia not to be vaccinated by saying the worst nebulosis and unspeakable lies. They're the ones who are to blame for having so many extra vaccines. My responsibility as prime minister was to get the vaccines enough for everyone, that's how much we got. Everything we could donate, and in time, we donated or we'd still donate. Administrative management is run by the Ministry of Health, Croatian Institute of Public Health. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives them support. Maybe some of the doses just happened to run out of time, that's too bad. But it would have been a much bigger shame if we hadn't had a vaccine for those wise ones who wanted to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104147	Thank you very much. We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure of a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104148	Article 238 has been injured. With all due respect, counterpart Maric asked a clear question, and the question is why not a few doses of vaccines failed, but 270,000. That's not a few. A few is ten, a few is 100, a few is 1,000. 270 000 doses of the vaccine failed instead of being donated or used differently. Instead of Answering We're getting a doctor's appointment again, I know everything. [[Break president: It's time for a colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104149	A fellow coat of arms, a colleague of the coat of arms, it's time, time's up, you get a warning, you're still in the assembly long enough to know that this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104150	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you have clearly pointed out 3 aspects of the crisis and reported precisely that Croatia's LNG 57% of gas, 22% of its own production, so almost 80% of what it says about security of supply. But what I want to ask you is the fate of Ukrainian refugees, we are in the assembly, Mrs. Zdravka Busic gathered us together as president of the Croatian-Ukraine Friendship Group to see what we can do specifically. And one of the proposals that came into the package that was discussed on the cohesion policy council package CARE Cohesions action for refugees in Europe which Croatian Europarliamentaries managed to get involved that Ukrainian refugees will be able to be users of all existing European projects with the support of employment and everything else, which means that they will also be able to get psychosocial help and join the programme Wish and everything. By adopting such a package It shows exactly how the Assembly can act. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104151	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104152	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104153	Third replica of colleague Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104154	You didn't mention in your report that you offered your management skills to German Chancellor Scholz. Namely, his Minister Anne Spiegel had to resign under public pressure because she was last year as a provincial minister in... Ten days after the flood hit the province, she went on vacation, which she paid six months earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, according to the political culture, the German public opinion assessment is that the minister has shown incompetence and has no credibility for the behaviour of the ministry at national level. You, however, have appointed Ivan Paladin as minister in the Croatian government although it has been known that the gentleman is involved in deep affairs in which directly harm is done to the Croatian state, such as the Kukari project. Have you perhaps offered Chancellor Scholz a solution to avoid these difficult democratic standards through the control of the media and the judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104155	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104156	Thank you, beautiful representative Vidović Kristo, another one of your pointless tirads. I don't know who's screaming at you, but in any case, I find it fun, sad and harmful, you have minutes at your disposal, you've been polluting media and political space for years. I feel a little sorry for those who support you, I believe that they will enlighten it would be good for them, and for the Croatian Parliament it would be beneficial not to be elected here again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104157	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic Kristo here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104158	Article 237, Mr. Jandrokovic, it is a shame how you conduct this session. You're not the assistant prime minister, you're assisting Sanader, now you're assisting...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104159	Look, colleagues Vidovic Kristo, you get a warning right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104160	... to Mr Plenkovic, but there will come a time when you will be in charge, and Mr Plenkovic, you are in violation of the laws, participating in corruption...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104161	You're getting a second warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104162	...and no insult will wash you away from these sins, none.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104163	Come on, I'm not gonna give you a third warning, they're gonna listen to you, so maybe less people will vote for you. Let's move on, when you're in the Croatian Assembly six times, then call me back. Comrade Stier, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104164	No, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104165	So, you first made harsh insults at the expense of the Prime Minister, he reciprocated you...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104166	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Why are you speaking?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104167	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you, just to explain it to you. So if you insult others, you cannot expect them to be gentle and gallant to you. So what you're doing to each other is probably going to do it, and there's one saying for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104168	Have you heard what I've done to the Rules of Procedure, 237?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104169	I'm not talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104170	I didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure for insults, but because you don't know how to lead and don't run a session in accordance with...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104171	And now you're going to get, now you're going to get a third warning because you're talking when I'm not telling you, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104172	You didn't give me your word?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104173	No, I didn't give you my word. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104174	You said I was speaking now about my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104175	You get a third warning and you lose your right to speak. Please sit down. You don't have the right to speak anymore. A fellow Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104176	I do, Mr. Grmoya had the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104177	Comrade Kristo, three injuries to the Rules of Procedure mean you're losing your right to speak on this wheel. A fellow Bull when he's got four, then he's got to leave. You see, you haven't even learned the rules in the assembly with all this time. When you get 3 warnings, that means you can't talk on this wheel anymore, so you can't talk anymore. And 4 warnings means you have to get out. You don't have to go out yet, but if you go out alone, you can. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104178	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I will return to the strategic compass, in order to point out once again the importance that a special text on BiH, the equality of three constituent peoples, was introduced, along with the lobbying and the work of our diplomacy, but would go further, and that is in that second part of the strategic compass where Croatia has also taken up the EU's development of its strategic autonomy. No, as an alternative to NATO, but together with NATO, in co-ordination with NATO, in association with America. And I would like you to give us your comment, especially after Germany announced this special fund of 102 billion euros, which, after America and China and Germany, becomes actually the third largest investor in defense and thus gives absolutely one new context and a European defence policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104179	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104180	Thank you very much, it is good that you mentioned the strategic compass again, exactly the strategic autonomy of Europe is one of the key elements in strengthening defence capabilities. The decisions taken by the German parliament after this Russian invasion of Ukraine are far-reaching and good for Europe. It is very important that all the defence capabilities we have on the European continent can be gathered in one compatible way. It is the key to the success of the European defence. Croatia has also been very specific here, in the end we have also acquired French fighter planes and thus made a concrete contribution to strengthening European defence, as well as to raising our capabilities. Just once again, I would like to explain about the strategic compass and the fus of a note related to the constituent peoples, these five countries were against the mention of the constituent peoples. It's been going on for years, it's serious, it's a deep misunderstanding as BiH was created and formed after Dayton, and we know that the war stopped thanks to both Croatia and President Tudjman and Ali Izetbegovic's agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104181	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104182	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you have introduced a new practice in HS that we often praise, which is that more often than prescribed, you report to the plenary on council meetings. However, I would like to visit you on an article. 11. The Act on the Cooperation of the HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European Affairs, which states that before each meeting of the European Council, the Government will deliver in writing to the Committee on European Affairs on the agenda and other accompanying documents, and the draft conclusion of the European Council, if there is one and I understand that you cannot always respect the law here because some councils are simply ad hoc or until the last minute, you do not know the agenda. However, the same article says that after each meeting of the Council, you will present a written report on the meetings of the European Council within 15 days of the meeting. Now, we've never welcomed that, and here we're discussing February reports, sometimes it's due due to your obligations, but I think the Committee on European Affairs as the only committee with the power of the tide would deserve to respect the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104183	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104184	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, it is clear to you that this is what I introduced 5.5 years ago. There wasn't any before, you remember, so there weren't any such discussions. We are doing this precisely to sensitize both the Croatian public and the representatives on topics that are our themes, these are our topics, it is as if the government's meeting is only at EU level. If you want to, there are notes with all these meetings anyway. I can ask the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to submit these reports to you and, if necessary, he can come along with his co-workers to the committee meetings. I come to the plenary session every three months, so we don't repeat ourselves. We can further encourage this practice to be better and more concrete. Unfortunately, most of these conclusions are a secret, if we put them on the air then we are the country that broke the agreement that these conclusions are secret until they are adopted, but the report after that we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104185	Thank you. Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104186	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, here is a clue to these discussions, as well as to all other facts and actions are what will later be said, the fact and deeds that you were in Kiev in December when you signed a joint Declaration on the European path of Ukraine and when certain political leaders called you a Ukrainian agent, that you did not know how to conduct foreign policy, and then they hypocritically burned the colors of the Ukrainian flag on the Vukovar waterworks. The fact is that this high house on the second day of aggression brought up the Declaration on Ukraine, which not only condemned aggression but also mentioned the preservation of the international legal order, the preservation of security not only of Ukraine but also of all EU countries with 133 votes in favour and one abstention, abstentioned Mrs. Peovic who now cares about security, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104187	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104188	Thank you, beautiful representative Mazhar, so not only that, so those who were against visiting Ukraine and who were negatively on him were showing this carriage of Pantovkat as number one, then his abdominals here coat of arms, Bridges, Penava, those same who hop behold wonders here the Russian aggression suddenly became the great first of the Ukrainians, and then quickly came to their senses, enlightened and crossed over to the right side, the truth when the aggression had already begun. As far as Mrs. Devereaux is concerned. I can only tell the truth, and that's that she's lying about the sentence on page 7 [[I'm not funny. It's true.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104189	Now, here's what my colleague Peovic is going to have a chance to say. It's her turn for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104190	Thank you. Obviously, the fact that I told you that you were not very respectfully accepted in the EU and that there was very little debate about the drone crash. Page 7 Prime Minister, we can read it out loud if we don't have for that time, and you'll have to list another page because it says what I said there was no debate at that informal meeting in Versailles that 24th and 25th again no one answered your letter. Whoever responded to your letter, you now have two minutes, 20 minutes you spent not answering who in the EU responded to your letter that you gave there on 10 and 11 March. Here's the only thing I've said, so it's really offended you, but you're not only responsible for Croatia's not quite sure how it's been accepted and that the drone didn't really fall, you got no reaction, but you're really one continuity of car colonial policy, which is why we really don't care why and in what way we're going to step up the defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104191	Thank you, thank you, colleague Peovic. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104192	Thank you very much. Representative Peović, I don't know where you went to school, so if you'd learned to be so insolent and so, so rude... No, it's all true. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, the lady wasn't in Versailles, the lady wasn't in Brussels, the lady was interpreting the Croatian public code was sitting there. Were you there Thursday night at one and a half when I talked about it? Were you on Friday night at 10:30 when I talked about it? Were you in communication with other leaders? You're not. You're trying out of your own tiny little thing, I don't know what the entrenched approach to the pro-Russian arguments is, you're the only one who's been held back on the HS Declaration on Ukraine, so you'd be Mrs. Peovic should be ashamed to walk on the road, 10 million people are expelled from their houses, Mariupolj is ahead of the fall, war crimes are happening, and you are restrained and carry it in your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104193	Thank you, thank you very much. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, colleagues Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104194	Injury. In 238, the prime minister directly and completely unhindered insults MP Peovic but not only MP Peovic. Now you've mentioned something about shame, the Prime Minister of a European country, is it appropriate for you to tell someone where you went to school, is it appropriate for you to tell someone that you're ashamed to walk on the road, is it good for you? Is it right for you to call someone a cavities, whoever it is? [[Intruder President: colleagues Bencic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104195	Comrade Bencice, just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104196	So, I'm ashamed to have a prime minister who has such a dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104197	Wait a minute, Comrade Bencic, please. Time's up. You're getting your first warning... You get your first warning, colleague Bencic, please drop so many heavy words here that go from the direction of the MPs of the opposition, just a little bit to tell you they're going from the direction of opposition towards power, only a little please continue when the one who is called who is offended by you answers then you jump into the air. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So forgive me, if we tolerate a certain level of inappropriate communication that comes from the government's agenda, then I'll allow government representatives to be equally uncomfortable with MPs. ... Look what you might think is true for us is inappropriate as the other way around, you're a little bit, you have little sense of what offends others. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't see colleagues Benčić, colleagues Bencic and colleagues Kekin many MPs speak very rudely and rudely to government representatives, I give them a warning, I let them go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now that it happens the opposite of how uncomfortable it is sometimes and inappropriately I won't be giving any warning because it's the style I've taken. You get warnings mostly when you break the rules of procedure, when it comes out of the deadlines, or if it hits the lowest under the belt, but everything else is tolerated so don't expect when the Prime Minister gets attacked by the opposition that he can, and when he comes back, I warn him. It's not easy to comply with standards. Let's move on, colleague Oreshkovic, you're also looking for a breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104198	I thank the president. He's been injured. The 238th prime minister insulted parliamentary deputies. In fact, to be clear right now, I don't mind a little rougher speech and style figures in political accounts, but I have absolutely everything against having one prime minister allow himself to address the MPs with such a dictionary. The government has been ordered by the Prime Minister, and today your dictionary is that MPs lie, that they are not normal, that they are nothing, that they have been polluting the media for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104199	.../Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Oreshković./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104200	/... space like you said Caroline Vidovic Kristo, unacceptable.../
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104201	.../Adversity President: colleagues Oreshkovic receive a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104202	You, Mr. Jandrokovic, are...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104203	.../Intruder President: Give it to her please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104204	...the real president of the HS prime minister would be thrown out, and a prime minister like this is no place here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104205	Comrade Oreshković please sit down, sit down, sit down, please, please. My colleagues, Peovic, and you were looking for a breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104206	238th Indecency of a parliamentary representative. All I can say is, I didn't insult the Prime Minister, I didn't question his master's office, I didn't even read the contents of his master's degree, so I might have analyzed your literacy level, but that you're talking to the parliamentary representatives where she went to school and that you shouldn't walk down the street after you wonder how some violence came about, how some people were violent to others, so you're responsible for that. Ask yourself how violence in our society occurs. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104207	My colleague Peovic, this was also a kind of replica, you get a warning from another. Let's move on, fellow Petyr, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Plenkovic, today you are here to brief us on the Council meetings at which the debate on the situation in Ukraine dominated, this situation and the crisis is unprecedented and it has inevitably affected not only the collection of energy and food but also food flows because almost 36% of EU cereals imports from Ukraine. The EU or EU bodies and the Council discussed how to turn to internal resources to increase their own food production, but this will not be quite simple in view of the high collection of seeds and artificial fertilisers, and in this regard some financial support is expected. The Council invited the European Commission to present this financial support, I am interested in whether the 500 million kuna reserve package they have submitted to the Council and what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104209	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104210	Thank you very much. We have discussed energy, of course, agriculture and all that we can do in a common way in order to create shortages of any kind or raw materials or food or cereals or oils. Here we have today practically had information from Minister Vukkovic just on a tight cabinet that everything the government has done to make the stock available to full, sufficient within the legal deadlines in the course of the procurement and all without problems being obtained. If such situations arise, the EU will know how to show solidarity at this time, but I have not noticed anywhere that we are at risk of any kind of food supply, and I do not see that there will be a problem. When it comes to energy, it is more a price issue right now than just a supply issue, but what is sure to ensure is a greater flow of energy, especially gas and oil from other parts of the world to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104211	Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104212	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, as far as the war in Ukraine is concerned, I can say that I support your government's decisions to help the Ukrainian people and the willingness to accept how many refugees from that country are needed. We know that sanctions have been imposed and that, at European level, discussions are mainly about two different approaches. Poland represents a much stronger policy, wants to completely break trade relations with Russia, while other countries like Germany are restrained, above all I would say because of former Chancellor Merkel's failed decisions, the country is more vulnerable than it should be in this situation. So I'm curious because these talks are under way in which direction is Croatia going? Are you going to resort to stronger sanctions or what is supported by Germany, including Austria and other countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104213	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104214	We supported all five packages of restrictive measures. You are also sure I have examined the conclusions, so in one of these European councils it is very clear that the political determination of the Union on so-called. Fassing-out of Russian energy and everybody. This also applies to the gas that is most important for both oil and coal. The word "fasing-out" is used because no one is ready to make new interactions in a moment, provide enough gas, enough oil, enough coal in the current time frame to keep an account. This is all happening at the end of winter, so in the heating season not only for us but for others. However, the idea is that by the beginning of the next season of heating, the alternative direction is established, so here is Germany as a country that didn't have a LNG terminal unlike us was renting four. Look at the price of one of theirs compared to ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104215	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104216	Dear Prime Minister, of course we have read your report carefully, and certainly we should refer to each and every point for more than two minutes, and say, of course, we all express our deepest solidarity with the Ukrainian people who suffered and suffered still Armageddon, a terrible tragedy national. However, let me know if new information has come to you in the meantime, and the Croats are very interested because we have narrowly escaped in the face of this one deadly danger to a large number of people by the fall of that vessel. We know more or less the mosaic has agreed on a lot of details, but there's a lot left in the air that's going on with the black, or the orange box, is she detected. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Data is important to know who bombed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104217	Thank you, fellow Sacic. Here's your answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104218	Well, as far as I'm aware, I think there's something the experts have been saying about that. Unfortunately, the black, or orange box as far as I've seen the painting is not usable. There's nothing out there that can help us. What's key, and we still don't know if that vessel came here by mistake, sabotage or intent. It is not very likely that mathematically, of all places within its range, it falls to the capital of Croatia. I don't know, I'm not so inclined to believe some strange alleator pathway of that drone, or unmanned craft, that is. A drone or a rocket, considering how big it is and how big it falls on the capital. Unfortunately, however, we do not have confirmation that someone could confidently tell us how she got to Zagreb. No one wants to say anything about what we've been publically communicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104219	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104220	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. I would refer, or perhaps further clarifications about energy, so regarding the general energy situation in Croatia. What, the information we have received, in principle, is relatively good in relation to some other countries, and that is a fact. And I kind of always like to deal with facts, so I'm gonna do the same thing this time. So it comes to... related to gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're basically in a good situation here. I'm interested in the oil situation. And it's oil now, and we have a nice lot of fuel and everything together, but what we kind of have to take care of, I'm sure in the next 20 years as in terms of fuel we'll be using oil. I'm curious to know what's going on with the river refinery? Is it some potential that Croatia has for oil that comes to tankers, because everything that we need can be done in the refinery in Rijeka. We have a Janaf warehouse where she can be stored. How much of this refinery is ready and how much She'll be working in some kind of full drive. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104221	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104222	Thank you very much. It's true about the gas, the situation is much better now than it was a year and three months ago. I'd just like to underline that. We now experience the LNG terminal as if it's always been there and it's not. It is number one, and yet it is a significant contribution from this government to the energy security of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. As for oil, of course, that JANAF works more than well, that the tankers are coming, that the refinery in the Working River is a refinery, a refinery that can lift its capacities further. Both Croatia as co-owner of the INA and through its members of the administration and through all activities will do everything possible to make it the refinery in Rijeka that will be both functional and useful to provide enough oil for the Croatian market. Comrade Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104223	Your Honor, Prime Minister, you're something to what you say is burdened by my visibility. So do you know who gives the opposition visibility in the media? Well, you, your unquality work. If you were doing your job as it is, we wouldn't have any content that could make us visible. So you can only congratulate yourself on that. And what I would like to ask, specifically this report, concerns the issue of Russian gas in Croatia and the systemic risk that sanctions against Russian gas can produce in Croatia. In fact, if we were to really limit the business of Russian gas in the Croatian market, which is about what you stand for in these reports, we could talk about systemic risk with regard to the PPD and its connection to ownership and fortenovo. And I know where a restructuring of Agrokor has taken us. In this regard, I am interested in the efforts that Croatia has put up with to face potential systemic risk if such restrictions occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104224	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104225	I don't know what you mean by Representative Selak-Raspadić when you say we know where the restructuring of Agrokor took us. Where? I don't know where it took us, it took us if you think of the Law on Extraordinary Administration in the situation that the Croatian state cost nothing, saving the company 60,000 jobs, functioning and agriculture and the food industry and retail chains and all the other segments and the fact that we avoided the crisis that would lead to the collapse of the Croatian economy in the vast part of 2017, if you consider it where it brought us as a problem then we fundamentally don't understand it. As far as the company you're alluding to is called systemic risk, you're thinking about PPD, as far as I understand it, is getting gas from a number of other sources not only from Russia, and that's how it works. Croatia is at no risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104226	Thank you. My colleagues, Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104227	Thank you. The report said that already on February 24th it was found that the start of aggression was carefully chosen when US attention was primarily directed towards China, Germany in post-election, and France in the election cycle, NATO pulled troops from Afghanistan and the UK out of the EU. It is said that already on February 24th, it was known that the attack was prepared with caution, but the political and military unity of Europe and NATO alliances has been underestimated. My question is, have we overestimated or underestimated or what is actually going on with security intelligence? There were a lot of disputes about whether Putin was going to attack or not, there were different and dissonant claims about it, and now you're saying without a problem that it was known and here it was determined that something was carefully planned. So where were the protective mechanisms and why weren't they working in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104228	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104229	Dear Representative Oreskovic, what you read here was part of my presentation and my analysis, so it's more than clear in a strategic sense. Pull a parallel with Beijing in 2008 and then an invasion of Georgia, the end of the Olympic truce, the end of the Olympic Summer Games in Beijing, the end of the Olympic truce, the end of the Olympic Winter Games in Beijing, more than the reliable information we've received from our strategic allies of the United States how long the weapons have been accumulated, how long has this action been under way. And at the moment when the objective foreign policy of the United States was focused on China, when Germany was directly in the post-election situation, France in the pre-election, the UK came out of the EU, very abruptical and not exactly the phasing out of the international community from Afghanistan, it was that moment, it was a carefully chosen moment, everything that stands there and it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104230	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104231	Honorable Prime Minister. I have heard your views on politics in BiH, and I believe that the Croatian foreign policy goal should be only one or one of the top priorities in relation to the other, which is the entry into BiH into Euro-Atlantic integration. If we have a potential chance today that Sweden and Finland will quickly enter the NATO Pact, even some kind of rapid entry and Ukraine into the EU, I don't know how realistic it is, but here's the thing, I think that if any of these countries are going to enter into any Euro-Atlantic integration that in the same package here I would like to see BiH enter, and let this be the goal of Croatian foreign policy that, if possible, the illusion of BiH is also a positive one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104233	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic. If anyone supports the European path of BiH, then it is Croatia, which is why I said at the outset there are even three of us, and Representative Petir and Representative Stier and I and four, and Representative Busic, we created preconditions for BiH in February 2016 when Dragan Covic was rotating the BiH presidency. And then there were some, and they were repeating themselves now in a strategic compass that wasn't thrilled with it. These are very difficult processes. I personally do not believe that anyone, overnight and in a hurry, will become a very full member, what I believe and what I will stand for is some special institutional status that is more likely than this, and we want BiH first of all to address these previous internal issues of equality, which is the equality of Croats. And in the EU I said we'll take BiH as soon as it happens solve and help her more than anyone else. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104234	My colleagues, Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104235	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague, Selak, who asked you about the systemic risk, I'm just going to say that this systemic risk of an exclusive Russian gas agent sitting in the government's energy crisis body, so I don't think it's recognized as a systemic risk, but that the government still sees him as a partner, of course I'm talking about the owner of the PPD or one of the known PPD owners. I will withdraw my question for you because I no longer want to give you an opportunity, neither legitimacy nor to you, nor to those who behave similarly in positions of power to insult you, use the expressions that are truly for the street, and not to Parliament towards MPs and MPs, specifically, and use this pay phone to play masquerade and sometimes verbally violently communicate with those who have left you without arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104236	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104237	Dear Representative Bencic. And who would you like us to put in energy working groups? Let's say some association so I don't insult someone for xy, who doesn't do that at all? So I guess we need the expertise of those companies, especially the biggest one that's crucial to the supply and supply of energy in this particular case of gas. Well, it's not a matter of love or an effective relationship, it's a matter of necessity. If you were in charge, you'd know. And as for this other one, I'd just like to warn you next, if I'm telling the truth that someone in the plenary session of HS expression verbis lies, so I point out in a cultural dictionary that someone is lying, and I'm telling the truth that's not mascism, it's not an insult, it's just true. If someone's right about it, and she's a pain in the ass, that's his problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104238	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104239	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Mr. Prime Minister, you mentioned a special institutional framework for Ukraine in your response to colleague Zekanovic. My question is actually on the trail. If there is a consensus on one thing at least among the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and European Affairs, then it is the insistence on the European path for the Western Balkan countries and on the COSAC last in Paris and on the other same frameworks that we have all talked about how important it is for the Western Balkan countries from the EU to receive messages that clearly follow their promise of progress and for the reforms they have achieved. First of all, I think about Macedonia, so I'm wondering if it was on the margins, there was a plenary debate about it, and does the same equation actually put in some way a special institutional framework for Ukraine and the progress of the Western Balkan countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104240	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104241	I understand, dear representative Glavasevic, that thesis, she would say our permanent policy, some sort of permanent warrant. If someone is after us neighbouring countries it's us, so you know it at parliamentary level and we at government level, it's not at all a question of what we're concerned about. We have done a lot for both the Republic of Macedonia and Albania, about BiH not to speak, the support that came from Croatia was always sincere and friendly, but it also pointed out that criteria can and must be met. We met the criteria to the last one, we broke through, and it wasn't easy, but we came to that goal, and that was very good. It is not necessary that there will be packages of Ukraine and others. I don't think Ukraine will become a member tomorrow. What I think is realistic is some special status, and all of these countries will go their separate ways, as far as we're concerned, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104242	Comrade Vidović Radoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104243	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, it turned 20 yesterday. from the imposition of the so-called ... Amendment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments, the High Representative practically abolished the equality of the Croatian people in BiH and created a presumption of the creation of the Federation of BiH as a Bosniak entity. Of course he did not do it on his own, with the support of the international community and key countries of the world. Unfortunately, then, Croatia did not react strongly to protect the peace agreements and the position of Croats in BiH. From then on, it takes the Croatians' quest to restore the equality and rights that belonged to them. Unfortunately, we have failed to do so today because the key countries of the world had no understanding of our demands. It's just lately thanks to you first of all... and you're changing this policy, and that's how we see it from... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The US administration and the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we need is for it to go on and on and on and on and on and on to the Bosniak public that we won't give it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104244	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104245	Thank you very much for this question. It is true that many years have passed since some key decisions have been made rarely imposed by international representatives who have reduced the rights of Croats to BiH, and this turning the hand back in such a way that we can say a close, and at the same time, it is not easy at all. The course of time has made our today's political diplomatic missions much more difficult, time passes and new generations come without knowing, without personal experience, without understanding the complexity of the situation, and on that side I think we've done a lot, we'll continue. The strategic goal is the equality of Croats in BiH and we want to build a policy in partnership with the Croatian National Assembly of BiH to protect the interests of Croats above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104246	Thank you. Now, second colleague Vidovic Davorko will have a chance to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104247	... I'm taking the opportunity to tell Mr. Prime Minister at all I don't want to diminish your efforts as you and your colleagues at the sessions of resolutions and declarations, etc., etc., you're a diplomat, a professional, that's your job, I'm not reducing that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we look at what actually results in these 2-3 months covering this report, do we, as citizens of this country, feel safer and, say, do Croats in BiH feel more equal? I'm afraid the result is pretty bad and defeated. We are attacked, the only member of the EU who has been attacked, and that as citizens, we have no idea who we are and why he attacked us. Neither for iota nor after what has been inserted into those two sentences in this declaration, the position of Croats has not changed in BiH, the result is not good, we are worried, we are worried and dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104248	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104249	Thank you very much. Representative Vidovic, as to whether we were attacked, we cannot categorically claim whether it was an attack, whether it was intentional, whether it was a mistake, whether it was sabotage. Activating art. 5. Washington contract, I assume you understand what that means, and that's what you decide when you're quite certain of what happened. We were lucky nothing happened to anyone but material damage. Are we safer, I think we're aware of the dangers, and that we've launched a process of strengthening both the anti-aircraft defenses and the capabilities of the HV we certainly are. As far as BiH is concerned, I remember very well you were the minister of the government in 2000-2003, right, because the government broke special relations between Croatia and the Federation, if they hadn't broken up, and they were broken up irrevocably, today we'd all have a different position together, and above all I think of the Croats in BiH we've done more now than all the governments together. in the last two years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104250	Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104251	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister, therefore, has so many attacks on this government, and no mention of the last 15 years of the government that we have not been slightly interested in or done anything about. Which is why an attempt to diminish the government's efforts to improve the quality of life of Croats in BiH to strengthen institutions from education, health, social institutions to cultural institutions, care for the victims of the Homeland War. So, those who try to insult us today care for us for the Croats BiH as for last year's snow. They should explain why they did not support the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. For a time they had a repressive apparatus and their representative, their only job was not to fight corruption but to find Croats who were eventually reported, and they all did so and praised you with the number of Croatians reported. They're not even seconds...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104252	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104253	Dear Representative Barbaric, say clearly and loudly that you think of MOST representatives, did not support the Croatian Parliament's Declaration on the Rights of the Croats in BiH and asked the Croats from BiH if they were reported by accident in Croatia, and now they are acting as great protectors of the national interests of the Croats in BiH and then, behold, their representative turns to you both and asks, and who are these two. So I ask all the portals in Herzegovina to release that clip every day, every hour, every minute because these frauds, false promises, acting, false accommodation on political spectrum as they were not seen in Croatian political history, and especially in modern times. But I'm glad you two saw it openly. I suggest you explain this to all the members and members of the HNS of BiH because this shame and horror we have heard here I hope that we will never again have the opportunity to hear and be ashamed All together. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104254	Let's go to the last line, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104255	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, BiH's stability is one of our most important national strategic goals, and BiH's precondition for stability is the stability of the Federation of BiH. I remember 16 years ago, the former prime minister of BiH and a member of the Bosniak people's presidency said that the majorisation of Croats by the Bosniak people is the best way for the majority Bosniak people to choose the legitimate representatives to defile BiH. Now, you must have had a meeting with Dragan Covic, and realistically, there is little time left to approach reform or a more significant change in the electoral system for the upcoming general elections in BiH that will take place in October. Is there a possibility and what your opinion is whether it can still be entered into electoral, amendments to electoral legislation so that we can establishing the equality and consistency of the Croatian people in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104256	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104257	If there's political will, there's always a way. Unfortunately, it is my impression that there is no longer the political will of key Bosniak leaders, leaders of Bosniak political parties who have simply not been sufficiently engaged in the last rounds of negotiations when it comes to a solution. We have done everything we could to bring the pressure of the international community to fruition, however, without having enough to change the electoral legislation in the BiH parliament is very difficult to reach an agreement. This fact that it will go into a new election cycle by status quo is defeating, poor, it is literally discouraging for Croats and BiH to be identified with institutions that do not allow legitimate representation through the electoral process. We explained this to everyone, they didn't want it this time, it's a big shame and it's going to be very hard and hard to rebuild Trust. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104258	I thank the Prime Minister, it's over with the replicas, so you can return to your post. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs want to explain the committee's report? Yes, dear colleague Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 39th electronic session held on 20 April this year, the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee discussed the report by the president of the Republic of Croatia on the EU leaders' meetings in question. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament considered the report in question as a parent working body. Following the electronic session, the European Affairs Committee, with 8 votes in favour and 4 votes abstention, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the informal meeting of the EU leaders held in Brussels on 17 February this year, the EU-African Union summit held in Brussels on 17 and 18 February this year, the extraordinary meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 February this year, the informal meeting of EU leaders in Versailles on 10 and 11 March this year and the regular meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 and 25 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104260	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, first in line on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104261	I am particularly pleased and smiled that our prime minister leaves every time before MOST starts its debate to show one form of disrespect to the elected representatives of the Croatian people while at the same time representing some polite discourse in practice, showing how he really sees it by insulting all the other parliamentary representatives. But it's nothing unexpected. We're used to similar PR pranks that we've been looking at all day, so it's worth looking back at. For example, our prime minister ate at least one if not more chemically while the MPs asked him questions again and again he rolled his eyes, yawned at least 30 times, knocked with a pen, looked away, and so on. I would love it when it's all done, and he's obviously so advised or he's read some of the foreign short manuals to ignore the opposition in order to gain a stronger impact, that at least a slightly better actor, that at least these movements aren't the same every time that it's so predictable that this is all not tragic anymore, but becomes and remains purely comical. I welcome the Prime Minister after another performance and expect her exact repetition in a few months when we see him again. And here's to getting married to his entire rhetoric today, I'm going to do the same thing I did to him once yawning while I'm looking at the MPs. And now I'm going to go back to the metrics, so on
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104262	My colleagues forgive Selak Rasdic, I am so sorry about something that my colleague Oreskovic is signaling all the time. What do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104263	So, Assembly representatives from the HDZ ranks show high level of disrespect because I don't even know how my colleague Selak Rasdic can concentrate and give a speech with such chatter and it is your duty to keep them down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104264	I rang my colleague Oreshkovic, and unlike my colleagues from HDZ, there is hardly any opposition. So please, now, let's not do this kind of game because it's not useful, and I don't think that it's necessary for you as representatives either. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104265	Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic. Unfortunately, I can only be placed in quality content, not by some kind of animal ghastly mumbling, so I am not at all burdened by the usual noise coming from the HDZ ranks. And now I'd like to go back to the metrics on those reports. I will first express my regret that this report, or at least this written part, came only to the HS site in the evening, is almost a common practice where it tries to skip as much of the contribution as possible because if we want to have a quality debate for this, we need some time. Of course, that did not prevent us from going through them, but it would be useful in a constructive spirit if we were to talk seriously about the subject of this report so that it would be delivered before. If I'm not mistaken, the last meeting was on March 24th and 25th, enough people employed, and I don't see any reason to have a written document delivered to the MPs before tonight. The second thing I'm going to talk about here is what was part of the debate today, which is the position of Croats in BiH, or the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. So, first, I will dismiss these accusations that the debate on the situation of Croats in BiH is about drilling into the chest as a major Croat. Perhaps for individual parliamentary representatives, that is, their ultimate political goal, but I certainly do not belong to it. Unfortunately, speaking of the situation of Croats in BiH, it seems to me that there is one big misunderstanding about what this is all about. First, most Croats find it difficult to understand that it is not the same for Croats in Croatia, Croats in BiH. The Croats in BiH are a minority, we are talking about a minority who is threatened by the majority and most people in Croatia don't understand it, so they think it's some kind of nationalist policy when it comes to Croats in BiH, and here it's talking about a minority that's threatened by most. The second and reason why I deal with the position of Croats in BiH is the issue of security, so RS security given the longest border it shares with BiH right now. In the current social political situation in Europe where we do have a serious security threat, given the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, their relationship with Russia and everything else that is happening, the last thing we need is a destabilized BiH. and here we come to why we are talking today about the situation of the Croats in BiH and whether Croatia has done enough to ensure satisfaction, the constitutional order of the Croats in BiH their position, and thus the stability of the whole part. We think she didn't do enough, I'll explain why, and if she didn't do enough then we're not talking about talking about it here so we can drill into our chests to show that we are bigger Croats than that it directly destabilises BiH and threatens the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Do we need a new hotspot in the so-called. The Western Balkans, or will we make sure in time that our foreign policy influence as a member of the EU solves this problem? This is what we are dealing with today, and we are dealing with precisely because the content of these reports is partly related to what our prime minister was saying about the situation of the Croats in BiH and thus boasted as his greatest foreign policy success. A few things need to be pointed out, it is good that certain syntaxes have entered official documents, but as I said before, we cannot admire anyone who says the sun shines or the water is wet. If that's already part of the constitution it's normal that in all other official documents as well. But what is much more important than whether the same is being done in practice, and in practice after all the foreign efforts of Andrej Plenkovic and praising his influence in European institutions, we have the following situation, in early May is announced the date of the new elections, the new election cycle in BiH, the electoral law has not been changed and things remain as they were and so far, and Croats have not been guaranteed equality within BiH. So that region remains unstable, and the consequences if this crisis continues to escalate in Ukraine we can all feel it. And here I believe that the Croatian government has not done enough she has been trying to negotiate some syntagmas within some documents, but has never crossed the line that she has exposed herself and risked her European positions to protect the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by ensuring the equal position of the Croats in BiH, and now the situation is what it is. The situation is a game over, no more, there is a new election cycle, that is, as far as this government is concerned in this election cycle and what it has done for the position of Croats in BiH. And when we talk about drilling into the chest or acting bigger Croats, we could talk about signalling the virtue of drilling into the chest by who is the larger Ukrainian today in Croatia, where the tragedy of the Ukrainian people is also being used to signal their own virtue instead of giving decent support to the Ukrainian people and we have a serious political debate about it. Since I don't have much time left in the end, I'd like to look back on that part of the other important topic, which is energy independence from Russia's Republic of Croatia. My colleague Pavić came up with some strange mathematics where he summed up our 57% of the gas we supply through LNG along with these 20 percent that we provide ourselves and said that we are 80% energy independent. I don't know if you know what LNG is for, but it's not the gas we produce, it's just his house to express myself simply. So no, Croatia is only 1/5 energy independent and here we come to the fundamental issue that should be cared for by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it is really going to go with sanctions against Russian gas we need to talk in Croatia about what the prime minister has been deaf about, I will now quote it and not let God take it once in the future, said Croatia is at no risk at all. And where does the systemic risk come from? Well, the thing is very simple, we have a PPD, through it we have a Gazprom 10-year Russian gas contract, we have the same people who are related to the property of Forten and potentially future economic collapse, given that they are interrelated if there are any sanctions. Croatia has to think about it in time, work on greater security of its energy independence, and also consider systemic risks, given all the ways in which both Russian capital and Russian gas are linked and affecting the Croatian market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104266	Next is the discussion of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104267	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is extremely commendable that we have discussions and reports from the European Council this often, and before I go into the topic on behalf of the club, I would like to look back, of course, on my colleague Rasudic. I said independence from Russian gas, and what, colleagues, look at the report of the European Commission which produced the index of dependence on Russian energy Croatia is the second or third from the back, second or third from the back. So, you better get going, you better read, when we add up the sum of each other and that's independence from Russian gas, and LNG's capacities are full, and the good part of the opposition was against it. European topics are domestic topics and good for us to interpret them to citizens. Unfortunately, the councils and high-level meetings were colored with the war in Ukraine, this aggression unwarranted, nothing caused and what the prime minister often reminded us in this house that the EU was primarily a Union of values, a Union of Democracy and I am glad that we also showed not only solidarity with the citizens of Ukraine but also that we showed a certain community of greater degrees within the Member States than usual, and that we were on the right side of history the prime minister showed in Kiev in August 2021 when he said in Ukrainian "Crime Ukraine" Crime is Ukraine. Let us remember the reaction from Croatia to this, remember the opposition that they said, let us not object to the Russians, remember the reaction from Pantovic and the president, so absolutely, and let us also remember the first proposal of the Declaration on Ukraine which one part of the left opposition refused to support and asked to ask the President of Milanovic of our Russian and certainly as the prime minister said caries. The whole time and the whole thesis that is being held in this debate is the question of the influence of both the prime ministers and the government and the HDZ in Brussels and the fact that everything that happened well happened accidentally after the inert, after the latter, that we had no influence. Today they tried on the current one part of the left opposition to reverse the the thesis that we, that HDZ launched Perković-Mustac topic, let's remember who did it and let's remember 1.7.2013 and the absence of the German Chancellor on the day of EU accession, I was there on the market and the shame that the chief Chancellor was not coming to us, let's remember just for Lex Perkovic, let's remember and the billions of euros that Milanovic's government lost because it didn't fight in Brussels, it could get, we could now have a billion euros more that in an article that said that those countries that had dropped GDP, and came in before 2013, only Croatia entered 2013, get 10% of additional funding. But we don't need to spend so long in history, here's a colleague of the Grbin was recently officially in Germany, I didn't see him received by the German Chancellor. So much, and I remember how many times I personally met the German Chancellor in Croatia, how much Ursula von der Leyen was, at the end of the mandate it was for the first time protocol, that President Macron came to us, that all our partners were coming to us and that we were not only an equal party but someone who could also be on the European Council's agenda and influence, and that for the first time, the European Council in this format was discussing BiH, that we were both in the strategic compass of ministers and thank you and your team and prime minister, even though in a meeting that was not discussed in the first version. And let us remember that the debate on the strategic compass also started for the Croatian presidency, despite the opposition of five countries, and not the non-essential countries, Germany and the Netherlands and many others, that we succeeded in the main constitutionality of the people. This proves that we have confidence, that we have influence, and that is this leadership of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Croatia that we are from someone who went to the lex of the state that is on the bench to come to the fact that we are a reliable partner, that they believe that we can introduce the euro, that they believe that we are protecting the external borders and that we have received an invitation as we have heard today and that we are going with the process of joining the OECD. It is modern sovereignty and that is what HDZ as a party and this government pushes and simply people see it because they cannot currently imagine anyone as prime minister, and even I think it is Mrs. Vesna Pusic in one statement said that she does not see that caliber leader among the opposition. Let us return to the very themes of the European Councils, which primarily concerned three dimensions of the Ukrainian crisis, the fate of the Ukrainian people, the consequences of European security and systemic disturbance. Of the 5 million people who have fled outside Ukraine, 15,000 Ukrainians are in Croatia, precisely through them and through the CARE programme, additional funds from European funds will be provided, and right on the Croatian initiative, they will be able to benefit all EU programmes in 27 member states, so not only in Croatia. In addition, a lot of discussion was being held about the energy aspect, the LNG terminal against which there were major calls from the opposition, Mrs Ahmetovic wanted to throw herself before the baggers was just a project that now brings security to the supply of 57% of gas. It is full and extends its capacities, as the supply of other neighbours and members is expanded. Croatia will help Ukraine on the European path, we want Ukraine in the EU. Of course, the prime minister himself said there will be a special arrangement, but with increased isolation and investment in research and development, better infrastructure protection Croatia has shown that it knows how to protect national interests, that it also knows how to protect and use its membership in the Union and NATO. Dependence on Russian energy will certainly be the topic of climate change and future debates. We also had a meeting within the Conference on the Future of Europe where I first heard my colleagues from the German CDU say we should continue with nuclear energy. I would remind you that Croatia was a signator of one of 10 countries, that nuclear energy is included in the taxonomy in the same energy sources that are clean. Finally, I would still refer to the strategic compass, I think that no government has done in many years like this government in the last two years for the Croats in BiH. We had and with the assembly this high house had a twinning project with all BiH parliaments to strengthen European affairs. I was also personally in Sarajevo, together with the President of the Parliament of Austria and Hungary, and we have succeeded in strategically as the minister said in a strategic compass, we have shown opposition to other countries that we are a full member who sits at the table equally and who can articulate not only Croatian interests but also to colleagues explain our views and convey our interests. Along with our solidarity with Ukraine, with five rounds of sanctions that were on the last council, with everything that affects 23% and the Russian banking system, with the support of BiH, we can say that Croatia was able to defend its interests and that we will support this report as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104268	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of Honored Representatives Mrak Taritaš and Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. These Prime Minister's reports always show well where we are on the main issues that the Union is dealing with at some point in history. This time this report starts with covid, its consequences and the way we are dealing with it, but over time, an absolute theme of covid is as if the sponge has been swept away for the simple reason that the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has turned everything around together and put some sort of system of values in place differently and has put all of us who are members of the EU at all and who want to find ourselves in a good society to start thinking, thinking and defining things differently. On behalf of the club, I will use this time to warn and stress that between the subject of Covid and the subject of Ukraine there has been another important meeting that needs to be given a minute's attention now, today, and that we are taking care of it for a simple reason to have some kind of dawn to think about the future. It's something that the prime minister in his report has gone so lightly, and I don't think he's going to cause much attention in our debate, and he deserves it. And this is a meeting at the EU-African Union Summit. Africa like we used to think that Ukraine was out there somewhere, that the war that's going on is out there, so the African Union or Africa is next door to the EU. Gibraltar doors are only 13 kilometers wide on their nearest part and that is the distance between the Union and the vast continent with dozens of countries in different stages of development and with different political and social situations. What should always be a task and what we must always make sure that the fundamental values of the Union are peace, stability, democratic institutions and general prosperity of people. As Europeans, and now we have to think about this as Europeans, we have a great responsibility for dialogue, cooperation and assistance and countries of the African continent, because if this war in Ukraine is going to have a consequence of Europe, and there is a great deal of it and we all know together that they have it and we know what's going to cause this war to spill and what it's going to mean for this great continent that we call Africa. And it is good and absolutely necessary from this place to say that it is good that the European Council is trying to encourage the European-African Investment Pact, it is good to think about state development and energy transition in this wider neighbourhood. So, I'm sure that at the beginning of this year, none of us thought that after Easter we would have already had 50 days and a few days 56, 57 days of war that would be long, that would be with huge victims, that would last long and that would really bring lasting consequences and they would bring consequences to Europe, but now imagine what the consequences are for both Africa and there is the responsibility of EU countries. Our responsibility is not always just for us, but our responsibility should be to look at it much and significantly wider. I'm sure that the issue of Ukraine, as in this House, will be debated and more, on several occasions. The subject is and here I am now moving on to some topic of dependence on Russian energy. This war reminded us of the importance of self-sufficiency, energy and economic transition and to show how ready the Union was or was not prepared. But what I want to highlight in Croatia must once again remind us of how important our immediate neighbourhood, the countries of South East Europe and the Western Balkans, which must have a clear European perspective, and to make it quite clear when we were on our long journey along this long road, we had countries that were old EU members and who were helping us on that road and were so-called. sponsor. The role of Croatia is to be so-called the sponsor of the former Yugoslavia's states to make it clear and define that it is BiH on that path that will not be easy, which will be long, because if we have something to offer we have knowledge, we have experience, we have topics that we have been through and that we can further spread. And for this reason, what I want to say for the end is that our task was to put on the agenda of the European Council a debate on BiH, that there is a terrible deal of work here, but Croatia must influence the fact that the political representatives of the Croats in BiH are people who are able to sit at the European table without the burden of the most dirty political and general corruption. I'll stop there, and Mrs. Oreshkovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104270	It's too little here for a minute to replicate to Mr. Bacic who said that some are doing everything to make the Croats sick in BiH. No one is disgusted by the Croats in BiH, but they are disgusted by those who pretend to be their representatives, are disgusted by Dragan Covic and other corrupt HDZ supporters. I won't spend minutes or talk about whether there was a bomb on the plane or not, I won't spend minutes or replicate to Mr. Pavic to remind him who this highly-positioned European official is pinching for gluteus some of our high-ranking officials. I'll talk about something else. I am actually interested in whether this generation of power is to turn Croatia to a level of Constitution, law and institution into a decent regulated state, a state of order in which it is known which rights, obligations and responsibilities and who is to behave in what way, and what is in the jargon, especially in the jargon and dialogue between the Prime Minister and the President of the State, is totally unacceptable and embarrassing. Long ago, I sent a document to the assembly saying that the rule of law is one of the highest values of the Constitution, and because of the high level of political corruption in Croatia today there is no such rule of law. When the government does not comply with the prescribed rules, starting with the highest levels of state authority and at lower levels. There is a climate of lawlessness in which citizens cannot exercise their rights, thus denying them justice, and the rules binding on officials and politicians must be clear so that citizens can check whether the government behaves as it is expected. This includes, among other things, constitutional obligations relating to the Prime Minister and the President of the State in particular in foreign policy matters. I have pointed out several times, including during today’s day that Article 144(5) is an article of the Bible. The Constitution prescribed that the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council shall represent, in accordance with their powers, the Government and the President of the Republic. However, on the basis of the already established practice in the European Council, the Republic of Croatia is always, but literally, always represented by the Prime Minister. I suggest that such a situation does not stem from constitutional provisions but from the relationship between the two heads of the executive authority and the contradiction of the Constitution itself, which at some point when the political will must be clarified and better constitutionally arranged. The current practice ignores the fact that the Prime Minister and the Government, in accordance with the Constitution, can lead foreign policy only in those frameworks that are being co-created, and the way this process of co-creation of foreign policy is not known to citizens. It takes place without the possibility of any insight, and thus public control, and we cannot know whether it protects itself in these procedures of agreeing and co-creation of public interest or raises the day-to-day political needs of individual officials and their political parties. Unfortunately, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amendments to the election laws, we see just such a bad and harmful situation. The above conclusion follows, if foreign policy is not implemented in political reality in accordance with what the President of the State and Government commits to the Constitution, which in itself is proof that we are not yet built and established a full functional state. And I'm curious about how long it's gonna be like that? Much depends on the rest of us on opposition, but also on all other intellectual forces. Because a state that is unable to implement the provisions of its Constitution is not a state at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104271	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Social Democrats Club absolutely welcome the continuation of practice to discuss the meetings of the European Council in the plenary of the Croatian Parliament. As pointed out before, I think that's what the prime minister pointed out. The intention of this is to just make some European topics that may still seem abstract to the public's body to make them closer. Because what is being decided in Brussels is not foreign affairs, it's our internal affairs. However, I must draw attention to a problem that is constantly undermining us, which is disrespect, i.e. not implementing the law in the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European affairs. Namely, the agenda or schedule of this week's debate was only given on the Big Friday. Documents in writing Report from these meetings, and it is not until yesterday we received a whole series of meetings of the European Council. And for that reason, the session of the Committee on European Affairs, which was electronic by the parent board and I emphasized it myself. So I'm going to underline Article 11 one more time. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and ask that at least that provision be respected that, 15 days after a meeting, at least the Committee and the members of the Committee shall be submitted a report from the held session so that they can prepare for a more quality discussion, but also be referred. I understand that it is not always possible to deliver documents and views on time before the Council meeting because some meetings are informal, because ad hoc meetings are urgent meetings. Maybe they have a secret sign sometimes. But this part of the post-meeting report, I think we should respect it. Because what and what kind of picture does the government actually leave that doesn't enforce the law that passed this Parliament? So we have a report on 5 meetings of the European Council held over a month and a week. Of course, because of the extraordinary situation caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, with the exception of the EU summit, the African Union and the regular meeting of the European Council. I will only be in Africa for a few minutes, because Africa has, as counterpart Mrak-Taritash said before me, said an extremely important topic for the EU that I believe will prove to be even more important in the future. It should not be forgotten that the African continent is also a possible source of instability. Unfortunately, not so far from Europe, there is a whole series of instability from the Central African Republic now that I don't list everything, but also that the EU needs to find a way to work in partnership with Africa and help to achieve and preserve the stability of Africa in these times that it understandably deals with its own continent. Why? Because Africa is also one of the main sources of emigration that is partly motivated by war conflicts, or instability. But unfortunately, it's already motivated by climate change, and it's likely to be even more in the future. And not just Africa, but other parts of the world. We have discussed the situation in Ukraine and in the Parliament a lot. I personally worked very hard on this issue especially when it comes to the Ukrainian application for EU membership. After Ukraine submitted its application for EU membership, I addressed the presidents of the EU institutions with a request to consider the ways in which Ukraine could be granted candidate status as soon as possible. Meanwhile, disgusted by news and photos from Butca, Irpin and other Ukrainian crime scenes. With the same request, I also addressed my colleagues to the committee presidents responsible for the European affairs of the national parliaments of the EU Member States, the presidents of political groups in the European Parliament, as well as the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Although the approach to enlargement is based on merits and meeting the criteria set remains a mechanism with proven effects and we cannot ignore the fact that none of the candidate countries and potential candidates as no EU Member State has been faced with an invasion of foreign forces simply because it has opted for membership of the European and Euro-Atlantic clubs, a nation club. I truly believe that the EU must make an exception for Ukraine and allow it to raise its relations with the Union to a higher level with candidate status and encourages announcements that this could be realised already in June. I remind you, as usual, that granting candidate status is not the end of the accession process, not even the beginning of the end, but possibly the end of the beginning. In the Ukrainian case, I think it would be a more symbolic message that at one point we as an EU member see Ukraine in our large European family and that this would be a clear message to those who have territorial claims towards an internationally recognised country, but also to the Ukrainians and Ukrainians themselves that Europe must not and must not forget them. I think that in an appropriate way we should also consider the requirements for membership submitted by Moldova, not Moldova, Moldova is a Russianism of colleagues and colleagues, allow me a linguistic trip, rather than Moldova and Georgia of the country which are also in a specific situation when it comes to relations with the Russian Federation and fear that they might become the next victims of Russian territorial claims. Of course, we should not forget the land of the so-called land. The Western Balkans, the names of only two countries do not yet have any relationship with the EU or do not have candidate status, are BiH, which has several words here and whose European path we strongly support as well as as the EU's EU Affairs Committee HS and Kosovo, but Kosovo must solve some other problems before accession itself, which is the fact that nine EU members still have not recognised Kosovo as a state. Of course, we are also available to help, and we will continue to help. The existential topics opened by the invasion of Ukraine in the EU, but throughout Europe are security, energy supply and food supply chains. As a result, the EU is faced with high inflation and we must recognise that we are in an extremely uncertain situation. In this context, I would be interested in, among other things, whether the current crisis will affect the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia. They also say that in every evil and someone good and Europe had to focus more on other sources of diversification of energy sources and encourage much more serious, much more thorough and much faster transition to green energy sources. The need for energy in the world will only grow, Europe cannot meet its own needs and we must quickly, relatively quickly find answers to these challenges as well. The very fact that I mentioned to Africa is that Africa is the fastest growing energy market and that it has huge energy requirements, and there is not enough capacity or close to production, and the same energy tells us enough that in the future we will have to rely heavily on our resources however limited they may be. But I don't believe they're limited because new technologies really provide very great opportunities for renewable energy from light, so not the sun, but light to geothermal sources, etc. Unfortunately, we do not have a fair study of geothermal potentials in Croatia yet, I think we can learn a lot from our colleagues from Iceland, for example, but also from some other Nordic countries, and we have neither, nor have we used the possibility of rebuilding that the buildings and facilities we will restore make energy independent or self-sufficient and even more efficient. Let me finally refer to some other statements that I had had the opportunity to hear from my HDZ colleagues, constantly saying that some of the opposition were against LNG. I personally, like most of my colleagues and colleagues, were not against LNG, but against the technology used to build LNG. I think this situation, and the fact that it is now being considered, has shown that land LNG would be much more acceptable to have greater capacity and would still be more environmentally acceptable, but if this crisis will help us get a land LNG terminal faster than I said in any evil and any good. At the end of the day, I would like to say once again that we support the government's efforts to support Ukraine, so for territorial integrity as well as all the humanitarian and other assistance we give Ukraine. According to the day's help compared to our gross national income, Croatia is at the very top, and I think that none of us who hurt were turning their heads during the aggression on our country, none of us have the right to remain silent at the moment, but we must support what is right, honest and honorable, and this is aid to Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104273	Next is a debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This debate today, as well as the very frequent discussions on the meetings of the European Council at the beginning, tends to take a very sharp tone after the prime minister leaves the assembly then usually the ones who were the loudest and the ones most interested in the debate remain. And then in this part of the debate, we usually can actually discuss, which I think, given what is said in the document, which the prime minister also said is so sad and actually says about how much the good part of Croatian politicians and politicians don't actually think about European politics as domestic, as about our policy as something about us rather than the opportunity to score some cheap and daily political points, and that's what trivial and, as I would say, I just don't have, I don't have any, I don't have any other words for it, superficially. But as for the document we hope to discuss, and at the end of the Prime Minister's report, there are several points I would like to discuss. This is a debate on behalf of the club, and we'll see how much I'll be able to expose it, so I'll be in an individual or in a final if I need to finish it. First of all, I'd like to say something about sanctions, that's what we talked about today. I also consider it our club's position that monitoring sanctions should be institutionalized. There is one body in the government that deals with this, but for actually incomprehensible reasons the government hides quite a bit, so far it's not quite known the composition of that body, it's not, it's not known, its roles are unknown, so our opposition club is going to give a proposal that we'll agree on in what way the assembly could be involved in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of sanctions. There is a lot of connection there, so there is also a council of energy in which, as counterpart Bencic said earlier in the debate, some people who are the most related to Russian gas imports are sitting. If we plan, if we plan to trim Russian gas imports and plan to move away from imports of Russian energy, then why does someone most connected to, to import Russian gas, have to sit in that body? But it would also be important to and I hope that the government will understand and accept that by transferring one part of the responsibility for monitoring sanctions to HS, it actually takes part of the burden off itself. The executive power in Croatia is extremely burdened, it is extremely broad and as simple as the practice is that the assembly is mostly serving here for so little debate and we vote for or vote against or vote abstention, it should not be like that in principle. In the assembly there are bodies such as the Committee on European Affairs that have some powers, have some capacity for such matters, and in particular on topics around which there is one significant level of consensus and there is one significant level of dialogue. It would be wise and it would be good if the government and the parliamentary majority would accept that in the assembly a single monitoring and enforcement body would actually be a good decision. Tomorrow is a joint session of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs, where we will discuss the consequences of this crisis, economic and systemic risks. That's very good, of course I believe that at the plenary session at some point we're going to have a debate about it, so I'm not going to have a special moment right now, especially when we look at it. Just one small, one small puck to the prime minister who today is on the current counterpart Grbin when he said that, that the energy crisis will, in connection with the food industry crisis, be associated with the crisis, the prime minister said that he did not, and then in response to Kresa Beljak, he said, as you know, the energy crisis is related to the crisis in the food industry, so there should still be little rise when the Prime Minister is above the exact level of conflict in the gathering on such topics because double information is being sent. As far as the Western Balkans and Ukraine are concerned, it was very interesting for me and I think it is very important that this thesis, which the prime minister has mentioned in response to one replica today, is, in fact, the same thing in response to the specific institutional framework for Ukraine. Okay, we'd like to hear a lot more about this, so what is this special institutional framework, which means, and I especially think, is that what counterpart Mrak-Taritash said about, which is a consensus in the Committees on Foreign and European Policy on our role in the Western Balkan countries. So we need to be careful and we need to be the voice of these countries on the European Council, which we mostly are, I can't say. But as we have pointed out many times on COSAC and, as in all formats of international and European participation, it is very important that no matter how justified some kind of festival trade is, therefore, any special procedure for Ukraine, that we have countries in the Western Balkans that are equally at risk of being destabilized by potential conflicts of significance. Unfortunately, we have one such history that the EU must, according to these countries, keep its promises because in the Balkans in a culture of Mediterranean, Balkan, these are related cultures, when you do not keep the word these people will cross you and we already see it in some countries like Macedonia. We had a Macedonian delegation here at HS who very clearly told us that Euroscepticism is growing in Macedonia. Why? Because the EU has not fulfilled its promises. After all, Bulgarian rhetoric towards Macedonia, let's be honest, is a very small difference if there is even a Russian rhetoric towards Ukraine. The Macedonian identity has been denied, the Macedonian language has been denied, the diversity of culture compared to Bulgaria and now the Bulgarian government has some crisis and earthquakes again and the big question is whether Bulgaria will end up again in some election cycle and where we are with Macedonia then. I think besides BiH, which is in every sense a great focus is extremely important that, according to Macedonia in particular, we do not lose sight, of course there is Kosovo and there are some other countries, but theirs, I would say that their internal political situation is more stable in one hand, but Macedonia, Montenegro and of course BiH are for us, we must be aware that the most exposed risks at this point are from great destabilisation. I know that there is understanding in both the majority and the government I just want to apostrophe that, if we have to, I think we have to act more actively and if what the Prime Minister says is that there is a misunderstanding in the European Council that would not surprise me. It is up to us, it is up to us, as was the debate on BiH, which we welcome to also be a debate on Macedonia and Montenegro, because there are major problems there and those countries if the EU does not launch, we could unfortunately look at scenarios in the future that we will not like at all. At the very end, another, several more notes on BiH. counterpart Selak Rasudiæ when she said that Croats are minority, no, I believe that the colleague meant not national minority, but in terms of the least numerous constitutional people, but it is an important distinction that we do because Croats are not minorities in BiH, Croats are a constitutional people which gives them a place at the table, justified. It is also important to say in this place that BiH does not destabilise either Bosniaks, Croats, or Serbs, it is destabilised by some political parties because they drag each and every one of them aside and do not participate in the process and in the bona fide talks, they are reluctant to compromise. So, they share both corruption and chronsiam and nationalist manipulation. And by doing that, they're actually hiding behind some ethnic boundaries saying that they're doing it on behalf of all these peoples who represent themselves. And there's one of those false trichotomys I would say, so people are offered either a unitary civil state in which the limits of constitutionality and constitutionality are deleted are pushed somewhere into the 15th plan if there's any new entity or amendments to the electoral law in a certain, precise way, but they're not the only models, there's more. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104275	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104276	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238 demeaning and insulting or insulting MPs, I don't know if my colleague Glavasevic played a little bit when he initially spoke to whom he didn't have any MPs here, since at least we MOST's from morning till tomorrow here in the Croatian Parliament, so it's important that we point our finger at others because I know that there's a colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash here all the time in the Croatian Assembly, unlike some of whom we see at times, and then these are the ones who are waiting for us who are here all the time, amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104277	Well, you used it as a replica, and then you get a warning. Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104278	At the risk of getting a warning, I'd just say that I haven't apostropheed or called anyone, but you've reacted and withdrawn my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104279	Well, you used it as a replica, so you get a warning. Followed by the HSS and RF MPs' club, respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104280	Good afternoon. Let's remember what were the topics of informal and formal meetings of the EU leaders we are discussing here. So besides the attacks on Ukraine were important topics on the agenda, it is a package of sanctions measures, autonomy from Russian gas, decarbonisation, refugees, talk about security and defence, the need and strengthening and military mobility across the EU has been highlighted. I'm going to stay a little bit later on the subject that's particularly important to me, and that's the food self-sufficiency that's being talked about. But why did I point out that it wasn't about the crash means drone drones, which the prime minister was very upset about, and the fact that there was no response means at these meetings on his exposure or what happened in Zagreb is partly that we entered NATO with the argument that maintaining our own military force would cost about 3% of GDP, which is an extremely large percentage, and I agree that this is enough, but today it means, especially by buying these warplanes, we extract over 2% of GDP. And now the question is, are we protected? And what should be asked at the very European summit why has this protection not been activated? So the aircraft flew over 3 NATO countries without anyone responding. This is one of the key questions whether or not to activate Article 5. NATO alliances or agreements with NATO alliances, and are we really safe? What was mentioned at these meetings also means the need to activate greater mobility, to take more care of safety, but there was no answer. Why didn't there be an answer? Well, the fact is that from that start Europe is neither economically nor politically, we are not going to fall apart as easily as that. And it's partly our prime minister's fault, it's not his fault, and before him, there's been such an autocolonial quiet policy that suits everyone who never asks questions, but in this case, his answer was really totally unacceptable and unnecessary. So that's why he called me literally that I shouldn't walk down the street because I was abstentioned on the declaration, our RF's consistent, anonymous, peace and anti-militarist policy is something I'm proud of, it's not something to call me, and it's supposed to call out those from its ranks that were Putin's Villa yesterday who are actually quite irresponsible and vaguely communicating with the Russian capital itself, and there's one, one opposition initiative that I welcome, meaning that there are sanctions being followed, sanctions should be monitored to be seen, but there should be real will. It means that the government is investigating in certain companies complicated ownership relations to check that their EU owners are for sanctions. And it's true that it's not easy to get the data in the way it's done and how that list actually checks out. However, it is unfortunate that Ukraine's tragedy is taken by the prime minister to actually once again after the crown produce both the state of emergency and in fact the opposition prevents any criticism, and using this tragedy for its own PR. The real tragedy of Ukraine, the real suffering of the Ukrainian people, should not be used on this act used by the prime minister. What was important was to actually point out that the day today means to Russian tycoons and lobbys close to the authorities gives an excuse and this comes from HDZ. So the apology's coming today. But what I wanted to stress specifically, and it would have been good if we had discussed both autonomous and courageous policy, policy means talking in favour of my own country means in these meetings, not just a matter of defence that should have been a real priority and we should have answered some questions, but another question that could have been talked about is really a question of food self-sufficiency. So it was discussed at these meetings on a more robust economic basis, this is the point of the 3rd informal meeting from Versailles, for example, anything related to food self-sufficiency and strengthening the capacity of EU production. We also talked about the need to strengthen the EU health and pharmaceuticals, strengthen research innovation potential, and we are destroying our agriculture, destroying our food production, destroying pharmaceuticals long ago, not talking about destroying science and research, just closing down the Shipship Institute which could and should have been the last lever meaning scientific and precisely this steam research of a revolution that we love to boast, and in one of the most complex products that have the possibility of exporting, which is shipbuilding. But when we talk about food that may be held somewhere else, unlike some other industries we've irretrievably destroyed, just in Rijeka, we have a situation with PIC means with a food industry combination which, in some strange way, is only being destroyed today even though we've destroyed similar companies mostly in the '90s. So in this criminal privatisation and conversion, but this one survived partly because of the so-called. The Ezop model model means the stockholders' stockholders' stockholders. If it meant brains, if there was a state-owned smart policy, the PIC would still be a good company today. We know that PIK managed to dominate not only in Rijeka means the production of milk, pasta of these bakery products, but also in Istria and Gorica Kotar and Lika and Kvarner, but of course without any investment, without smart industrial policy and PIK came into trouble. And then come the classic bags of privatization that go to the workers and buy shares in times of crisis. And here we have 2 of these, so Pastorčić and Borovac, which means the workers are buying shares even though HANFA has noticed that there have been a series of irregularities in their majority takeover, so the majority package, this is the moment our government should react to. Not only the government, but the DORH. So, under official duty, DORH should investigate how these people get to the majority package because it has already noticed that there have been a series of irregularities, the Pastorcic has, for example, sold or broken off his contracts with shareholders after over 25% of those who tie him up, means 25% of the shares that tie him to certain obligations. So when you cross that percentage, to reduce the percentage and a series of such irregularities has been established, but HANFA does nothing, DORH does nothing, Plenkovic does nothing, we destroy the last meaning of the food industry, such a powerful food industry in Rijeka, and means these privatization bags what they're doing at this point, so of course they're selling real estate. The sale of real estate, delaying the appeal or lawsuit they filed against, complained about the sign of the Hanfin audit and during that time without the assembly, without the means of shareholders, without the right to inform the public about the sale of real estate on Rab, in Crikvenica, in Malinska and things move on. Now is the moment at which Plenkovic should in some ways oppose, a statue behind the food industry, but in part and in fact oppose some EU rules, the EU's operating contracts, the famous 107 article that restricts state subsidies, the state's assistance to some strategic industrial branches as it comes to the impact on the competition. Certainly, such state subsidies and state aid and smart industrial policies are always very difficult to talk about or never things are black white and of course Italy is helping its shipbuilding to influence that shipbuilding is being maintained in times of crisis, so Croatia could also influence its food industry because our food industry, our milk production, of course, cannot compete with, say, French milk. But here we do not have any brave Plenkovic who would react, who would say something at these meetings, not only about the drone, but not only about the necessary defence means the moment when a Member State is possible and attacked, but we have no response or relation to food self-sufficiency, which only goes into the course of that autocolonial political framework that this government and Andrej Plenkovic enters with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104281	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104282	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and allow me one remark is very unusual to me without the plexiglass virtually taking off masks and all the things we've been used to for the last two years to this extent that this morning when I was sitting in a full assembly with people without a mask, I've been looking around for a little wonder, but what I'm saying isn't without the devil and it's not unrelated to this report. If you look at the report from the formal and informal meetings of the European Council, one warning is being passed through them all. Yeah, maybe the number of infections is a little smaller, but the pandemic people didn't pass, and that's why I wish I'd heard more from the Prime Minister than just one sentence that we should get ready for the fall if that's when the pandemic starts to rekindle. Unrespected colleagues and colleagues, we must be prepared to react at any moment to protect the lives and health of our people. But this particular approach by Mr. Plenkovic is the most depictive of this report. Yes, I will agree, for example, with colleagues who spoke before me, it is good that we have these reports on a regular basis, but respected colleagues and colleagues, it is bad that this report is turned not into a debate on the European Council meetings and how we are going to transfer to Croatia what is concluded at these sessions, how we will in practice implement the EU policy in whose creation we are already taking part, this is already turning into a long, painful and painful debate on the Electoral Law in BiH. All honors to this subject, it is important, it is important for our fellow citizens and citizens, for members of our people living in BiH, but respected colleagues and colleagues it is neither the only one nor the most important for the Republic of Croatia at the moment. But let's get back to the report. It is normal for the Russian aggression on Ukraine to weigh part of the debate at European Council meetings. That's expected, that's logical. Helping Ukraine in every form, in every way, is something that is our obligation if for nothing else then because of what still lives in our memories of 1991. when we were left alone, left alone to defend ourselves against aggression, in the same way that the Ukrainian people are defending themselves now and therefore such assistance is necessary and our obligation in Croatia even more than other countries in Europe or elsewhere in the world. One of these, one of these commitments is also a commitment to Ukrainian refugees and that full support, absolute support, but I cannot stop the fact that these refugees who come from Ukraine are treated far better than refugees who have fled the war from some other countries and cannot be taken from the impression that the faith and color of the skin play a great role in this, not only in Croatia, but throughout the EU. We've proven ourselves to be a two-faced, but not in the matter of taking care of refugees from Ukraine, about taking care of other refugees who, no matter what country they come from, when they're running from war, when they're running away from dictatorship, when they're running away to save their lives, have the right to the same kind of help. However, I must take this opportunity to look back on some of the things that Mr. Plenkovic said, and especially my colleague Pavić. Pavic's colleagues are gone now, so they won't hear it, but anyway. In January, Mr. Green President of Ukraine said don't panic, whether or not he will call Green as he called me because I used the term, let's not pour oil on the fire. Don't panic. It was a message from the Green West. Why? Because they hoped and believed and considered their obligation until the last minute to use all the means available to them to avoid war. In the spirit of a countryman from this place who said we're trying like it's going to be 100 years old. be peace, and let's act like there's gonna be a war tomorrow. Well, that's all we've been looking for, so don't pour oil on the fire at the moment when that oil on the fire was too much anyway, as Mr. Zelensky used to say. However, this aggression, this war has great consequences both for us and for Croatia, some are defensive. These meetings of the European Council discussed strengthening defence capacities. Yes, we will all have to talk about it no matter how deep we are in the soul of the pacifists, and perhaps the spirit of these words that I mentioned earlier. However, how will we build a better defence policy when we have a minister who is unable to build two hangars for helicopters that have already arrived in the Republic of Croatia, how? How are we going to build a defence policy of cooperation with our partners when we are not able to communicate with the Secretary-General of NATO what happened in Croatia with that drone's downfall, so he is a few days after the drone went down in Zagreb to deny the Croatian government. Besides, we don't even know today if there was any explosives in that drone, if there was one, and I'd like to know, and we'd better find out as soon as possible because we're waiting now, and there's unnecessary uncertainty in waiting, but the matter of security isn't just a matter of defense. The issue of security is the issue of security of supply, and therefore it is extremely important to discuss the economic consequences of the crisis, the economic consequences of war, the economic consequences of aggression on Ukraine, and that is why we are coming to what I was saying about the need for these meetings to be an opportunity in which we will discuss how what has been concluded at European Council meetings to live in the Republic of Croatia, to use what the European Council has concluded. For example, the European Council on 24 and 25.3. said that energy prices that remain high have an impact on citizens and businesses, and invited Member States and the European Commission to continue to use the energy price package. We have not heard from the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia today in which this is used in the Republic of Croatia, and I would like it because for the standard of Croatian citizens at the moment when prices are rising, it is extremely important. Furthermore, the European Council calls for the temporary crisis framework for state support to be used. We already have the influence of Russian aggression on Ukraine, on companies in the Republic of Croatia that have done business with the two countries. And of course that impact is negative and of course part of these companies needs help to survive, so that it does not fail, in order to keep production but what is more important than all jobs. A month ago, I asked the finance minister what we are doing to be ready for the moment when the EU is heading in that direction. I didn't get an answer from him a month ago, not today from the Prime Minister. And these are questions how to implement what the European Council discussed in practice, in the lives of Croatian citizens every day. Well, we did not enter the EU for God's sake so that someone could go for a walk in Brussels, Versailles or anywhere else where the European Council meetings are. We have entered the EU because we have estimated that this is useful for us, for our country and for our citizens, so let's start using these benefits stemming from membership. Finally, let me just mention something because energy security has been talked about today at least a little, and this is an invitation at the European Council session to fill the gas storage facilities in the EU as soon as possible. What is Croatia doing about it? Did we hear the answer from the Prime Minister today and one word about it? We didn't. With all due respect to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I will repeat again is important. These things, the energy price package, the temporary crisis framework for state support, gas storage and energy security are what is the priority for citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. And we haven't heard anything or anything about the implementation of these measures. And last but not least one remark. The LNG terminal was remembered. It wasn't the SDP against the LNG terminal, but against the floating one, we were for landers that would have at least twice the capacity. And you're here today talking about the need to increase capacity. We bid again in the media on new locations for new LNG terminals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if it had been made land instead of floating it would not have been a topic at all today. All in all this SDP report we can't support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104283	Next is an individual debate and is the first to be held by Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next, Marko Pavić. He's not here either, he's losing his right. Here comes Davor Ivo Stier, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is another report from the European Council session, a practice which as we have said several times, has been introduced by this government, although it is not an obligation under the Law on Relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, but which also from the lines of opposition, which seems to me correct, always point out as a positive, correct affirmative practice. In this report for this period, I would highlight two main topics. One is, of course, Russian aggression on Ukraine, the other is a reflection or state of it in our neighbourhood, in Southeast Europe, especially in BiH. As for the Russian aggression itself, the European Council Prime Minister pointed out from the very beginning a clear position of the Republic of Croatia, that was before we adopted the resolution but fully in line with the resolution that we almost unanimously brought to the Croatian Parliament. What is also pointed out is that this aggression has marked, I might say, a process that was already under way to change the international order. In what way? We have an ideological dimension from one side, so conflict between democracy and autocracy. We discussed the same thing today, a geopolitical dimension where, on the one hand, some played for the division, for the fragmentation of the West, for the fragmentation of the EU, and then for the promotion of division within EU member states, and on the other hand, it was a policy that sought unity both the EU and the unity of the West. And we also saw this in the adoption of sanctions regimes and in meetings together with US President Biden and in a decision on strategic autonomy, on achieving EU strategic autonomy but not against the US, but an alliance with the US in co-ordination with NATO, which has been introduced among other things by Croatia in the strategic document, the EU strategic compass. In this context, we need to see how in this changing world today very serious discussions are being held in the parliaments of Sweden and Finland, for example, on joining NATO. So this shows, unlike what we see in neighbouring Serbia, because today the interior minister said that a country that is military neutral must also be politically neutral. We see countries that during the Cold War were militaryly neutral but politically consistent with the values of democracy to also consider joining NATO today. And let's also say a link to the situation in our neighborhood where it is absolutely certain that this situation, this aggression on Ukraine, this new geopolitical situation requires that countries that want to join the EU must be classified and, of course, that applies primarily to Serbia. Of course, as far as the situation in BiH is concerned, we've also discussed it a lot today. I think it is important to highlight a process which began with our entry into the EU, which was seen in the first European Parliament documents when Croatian lawmakers entered the European Parliament in 2013 where, for the first time, with the condemnation of separatism, the condemnation of the dangers of unitarianism began. It is not a question of whether the state will be civil or not, but whether it will be governed as a unitary state or whether the country's complexity with the elements of federalism or the equality of three constituent peoples in BiH will be respected. And that is exactly the kind of philosophy that went on, and this government has indeed made efforts in this regard. It was sometimes criticised that they were not enough, that they were not precise enough, here in the strategic compass is indeed a very precise language that is used precisely on the equality of three constituent peoples in BiH. And that is why it is necessary to welcome the adoption, adoption of such a document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104285	We have several replicas, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104286	Dear fellow Stier, when we talk about the foreign policy towards BiH that you have now concluded, which you have now concluded the debate has not long since done such a political damage as has been done today in this act by Prime Minister Plenkovic. Why am I saying that? He did what he said, and de facto justified the Bosniak people for not supporting the amendment of the election law by saying Prime Minister Milanovic about soap, gave them an alibi that the law did not even have to change. The simplified Croats are your own fault that we will not agree to this change. I don't know if you saw what the Federal News Agency passed on afterwards and how Bosniak media react to Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement. Now we can talk forever about how the Croats are guilty of not having to change the electoral law instead of pointing fingers at those who are have chosen them years before [[Intruder: Time.]] elected representatives on their behalf. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104287	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104288	Dear colleagues on the contrary, you may politically agree or not with the prime minister, it is of course your right, but he is from this pay phone that they are guilty of not reaching an agreement on amending the electoral law precisely the leaders of Bosniak parties who did not want to agree and that it will be extremely, causing an extremely negative effect for BiH itself. So he was absolutely clear about it. And that's right. If you remember some of our previous discussions, I also mentioned exactly the Bosniak people who, in a numerical sense, are the most numerous with a special responsibility to accept Croats as equal partners. That they did not just destabilise BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104289	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Stier, after being included in the strategic compass, included the frizing you spoke of in the HDZ BiH, has made one suggestion that the identity card should be written to the ethnicity or membership of the ethnic group. I would like to know if there has been any announcements on your inter-party forum about whether it is something the HDZ in Croatia supports or what the position on this is. So that's one thing I can only consider very worrying, that's something that I shouldn't at least write from my perspective in your ID card, not anyone's. Here, so I'm just wondering if, what kind of thinking about such an initiative is and if it's something that might be good or bad for BiH before that in the context of the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104291	Thank you for that question. What is crucial is not to manipulate the system currently in existence in BiH. Therefore, if you will one day declare yourself a member of a nation, tomorrow because you want to manipulate the system in some way and you want to plead as a member of another people and then be chosen with perhaps voices like what happened to Bosniaks, but to enter a quota that would belong to the Croatian people is actually what it wants to prevent, which must be prevented in this system. In this way, what should be the concept of BiH is being played, where all three constituent nations must feel at home, not in the sense that the one who is more dominant in numbers dominates those who have fewer members. In this respect, BiH should be built where all three constituent nations will be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104292	Followed by a replica of the respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104293	You said in your statement that our declaration is a copy of European or European declarations, it would disagree. So we've got the European Council here and they're not, they're not identical to our declaration. Our declaration contained some parts that were not in fact some official EU position and we did not quite reflect it that way. First and foremost is the prejudge of Ukraine's entry into NATO alliance here you will see in the conclusion that a very cautious 9 point only mentions NATO alliance, but does not prejudge Ukraine's entry into NATO alliance. And I agree that Russia, said one of our famous philosophers, that no one has pushed Europe into NATO's hands as much as Russia has now done and that some countries are thinking about joining NATO. But it's kind of a chip that you can talk to about potential negotiations. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104294	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104295	Yes, dear colleagues, what I mentioned was that the position presented by the Croatian Prime Minister was fully in line with the resolution that we almost unanimously brought here in the Croatian Parliament and I stand behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104296	Followed by a replica of the respected representative of Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104297	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, on several occasions today you mentioned the strategic compass of the equality of the Croatian people in BiH. I believe that for a reason you tried to explain it to your colleagues in the opposition in fact, I have a feeling and I believe that what I want and from you, President Tudjman in the 1990s went through some opposition factors in a very similar way, incomprehension, politics, activity which was not in shape at that time because of the war, today this unrealistic activism, the formation of some new patriotism which is understood especially by colleagues from the Most, trying to do everything quality for the Croatian people after many years, because there is also the minister of our foreign affairs with the prime minister to do one quality thing, for the power of the Croatian people, I am guessing that I can say that although I am not from BiH, I am guessing, certainly more than Nino Rasdić and many like him to do the wrong things, untrue and twist the truth. Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104298	Thank you, colleague Deur, for that question. I think the importance of the fact that the Croatian position has just been accepted as having entered into this strategic document which will be the basis for building the EU's foreign security policy in the coming period. Of course, when we want to be effective and in our external action, it is important that we try to achieve as much consensus as possible here around some strategic orientations. If you want the situation of the 1990s and around the BiH policy where there were many divisions, where there were indeed many divisions within the Croatian political scene, and within other social groups, it was partly a difficult circumstance to implement any successful policy. Today I think that we should insist on this very issue of equality between three constituent peoples, on this model then the same thing as changing the electoral law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104299	Next is an individual discussion of the respected Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104300	The issue of our foreign policy and our relationship with the Croats in BiH could only be one of the topics that we will discuss in this report that our prime minister has not blinded his own ego and jealousy to the obvious what President Milanovic is doing in BiH, so he has more focused on blacking him out instead of developing a unique foreign policy position in BiH. I would not continue to enter the genesis and psychoanalysis of such macho fighting, but the consequences of such rhetoric are very clear, very harmful for Croatia and for the Croats in BiH. So you have a federal news agency that reports with the following title "Milanovic contributed to the collapse of the election law negotiations", the last person who is his apologist, which I am not dealing with at all, but here is something else important, and it is important that this day is an alibi for the Bosniak denial of the need to change the electoral law. The Croats blame themselves, that's what they read from the prime minister's words. You are also responsible for your rhetoric that we will not change the electoral law. And these are the consequences of today's parliamentary debate, and this is for us a great shame that will make the position of Croats in BiH very difficult. I'm going to look further at some more of the currents within this report. When we talk about the issue of vaccines, it is indeed cynical to talk about how we had an extremely large legacy of our printer in the prevention of disease and the promotion of health, knowing how devastating we are to covid statistics when we talk about the dead in the European frameworks. Secondly, to boast about how much we donated a dose of 700,000, and it goes to another 550,000 African partners knowing that we did this only because we have no storage capacity, nor were we able to regulate our needs for the vaccine is one cheap justification for actually a serious economic failure because we paid for it. We're not benefactors, but we have nowhere to go and where we've thrown so much. Here I find no answer to the question of what will happen to the health union, a very important topic mentioned in the previous report. What a commitment it makes to the Member States and what Croatia even thinks about it, it is completely skipped here. It is worth mentioning that the current cutting of all energy ties with Russia is considered impossible, so we don't have to hope for that anytime soon. I don't know where Col. Pavić went, but he said one misinformation again, after he realized we had 80% of the gas in our own production, so then he tried to find some excuses here that he didn't think so, said we shouldn't worry because our reserves are full. Well, this report may reveal key information for the built-in Republic of Croatia which is quite the opposite of what counterpart Pavić was saying, which is, "our reserves in seasonal warehouses are currently low and we are considering the possibility of support for filling the tanks", so we are standing with gas in the Republic, and we are producing only one-fifth of ourselves anyway. How do we charge? Where do we charge from? What options do we consider, and who has led to our reserves being low at the moment? These are questions we need to get an answer to, and we haven't heard anything about it. Finally, there is another topic that has not been discussed here, which is the subject of the Commission which has decided that it is willing to assess urgently the harmonisation of emergency temporary measures on the electricity market notified by Member States. What does that mean? What does the assessment of the compliance committee of our individual actions by Member States in the context of the Commission's earlier words, which means that each country has the right to implement its energy policies and measures to protect citizens or consumers and entrepreneurs in this crisis? Will the state, when they assess compliance in some way, react to the Member States? Should they be harmonised at all, and in what direction should this harmony go? This is a very unusual conclusion, and we don't know what our government thinks about it, it's a question that concerns us very much because it may even lead to something positive...it may also require stronger measures to protect our citizens as well as entrepreneurs in this energy crisis. But you need to see how much the Commission will intervene towards Member States. [[attack Sanader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104301	Replica, Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104302	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Marija Selak-Raspudić Croatia has thrown more than 275,000 doses of vaccines. Right now, yes. At present, we have over 2 million worth of 29 million 600 thousand euros on the lager. What a policy that the Croatian people do not believe, which leads to the fact that we have a situation here that we will share hundreds of thousands of these vaccines around to fail and that the taxpayer's money, taxpayers' money, leaves us all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the wind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104303	I'd say you're also a kind colleague of Miletic's. Not hundreds of thousands, but millions of doses, because we've ordered so far if I'm not mistaken according to the latest report on the effects of a COvid measure of about 18 million doses, and we've spent only a few million. I have asked several times both publicly and sent an inquiry into what our vaccine storage capacity is. We are also talking about another potentially ecological problem of medical waste that has so far been out of the public's focus, I have not received an exact answer. We can see there's obviously a problem because there's no answer, and the vaccines are being thrown away. So they have a limited duration, and what happens when they're thrown and where they're thrown. Imagine the amount of medical waste suddenly in the environment. What are we processing? Well, I'm sure we don't have the capacity for that kind of thing, so it's not just serious problems with the wrong economic assessment, it's also environmental threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104304	Next is a debate on behalf of the rapporteur of the respected Minister Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104305	... He listened but Mrs. Selak-Raspadic really seemed blinded by hatred and once by irrational hatred for the prime minister. [[Specially enabled.]] It's incomprehensible to me, because actually when I hear about Bosnia and Herzegovina then I actually listen to one superficial knowledge, one general place that actually means I ignore facts, and what I'm wearing is feelings. It is easily respected, Madam MPs, to speak of course from the comfortable chair of the city of Zagreb, to be a representative because I do not have enough time to explain to you how much we have done and what we have done, nor to impress me believe that I would explain it to you, but to the people who listen to you here, who follow the work of the Croatian Government, who know what has been done. We don't need your patsys and rewards. Us, we're going to the field, we're going to BiH. We want to hear what the Croats in BiH need. So, what you were saying about the prime minister giving some alibi to the Bosniaks, I don't know what you've taken a fragment from. There's a lot of it, you know, complex about various statements, including the president of the state perfume, first soap, and then that perfume. What the Prime Minister wanted to say indirectly is the quote of a 14th-century philosopher, keep your tongues in check, you who don't think about the consequences. That's what matters. So any statement that goes in a way to destabilise any conversation, a deal that actually compromises our efforts, the government's efforts to achieve something after so many years. I was telling you this morning, maybe you weren't here the way it all started. You should know that in early October is already so-called. Barry's amendments began deconstitution of the Croatian people in BiH, and then in 2002, as Mr Barbaric said. Petric's amendments that actually care about resolving the Croatian issue in BiH. This strategic compass, indeed a document which has never, in history, been any kind of regional organization and any organization other than, of course, the headstone, the principle of the Dayton-Paris Agreement. This page is therefore 8 of the 47 pages of the strategic compass, which is the strategic document of the European Union, which deals with the most important areas of strengthening European security, European defence. So here we have succeeded in very dramatic situations of negotiation talks. Of course, you had this raw document where it was not intended to include our reference to the consistency and equality of three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we insisted on it. Even the adoption of the document was questioned. It was therefore considered that failure to adopt such a document important to the EU would still be a failure of the EU, and in fact it went to unity and to common, so to find a common dictionary that will all confirm on the European Council. So, you had a lot of working groups. This wasn't just born. There are a lot of working groups on which this narrative was considered final. He was first considered on the peeler. It is also the Council of Permanent Representatives, then at the Foreign Affairs Council where it is at ministerial level, and then the European Council finally confirmed this strategic compass. Therefore, there were even tips from these countries.... /. ...that we simply write a statement to enter our, our narrative, our proposal in footnote. It happened, dear Madam MPs, that those countries that wanted it actually had that statement, and this is a strategic document that doesn't have a single statement. And it's that document that stays in history forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104306	We have several replicas, the first respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104307	Dear Ministers of History remains forever that in this mandate of yours, you have failed to change the electoral law in BiH, which was one of your foreign policy priorities. I don't know how those words about love and hate. Perhaps you've been taught that a great leader must love and love, I am personally indifferent to him because in politics I run the race, not the emotions, but it's often for totalitarian regimes that require and worship of that father figure that's headed by the team I'm supposed to lead. What is particularly worrying is the unequivocal rhetoric of our prime minister where he brought together a statement from the president and the fact that Bosniaks do not want to negotiate changes to the election law. Let go of my interpretations, you don't have to take them as relevant, see what the Bosniak media and the Federal News Agency are writing today, which are serious foreign policy consequences for which our prime minister is responsible and the unprecedented damage that has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104308	Of course, the media, indeed, writes all sorts of things but various media, you read only one media, but you must know that the Foreign Affairs Council has established that, that Croatians in BiH are their representatives, that they were constructive, and that of course the future, on an institutionally stable BiH that responsibility lies on the strongest Bosniak party led by Mr Bakir Izetbegovic. So, it's not quiet, it's staying, and I don't know why you're always running this kind of alibi, you think the situation is going to stay that way, it's actually just developing. In the last 2-3 years, we've only regained consciousness of what all the governments had previously missed. Let's go back a little bit to history and see a little bit, but criticalally everything that's been missed and what needs to be done now. And you as Parliamentarian here can call you at Bundestag, in French Parliament to see with your colleagues what can be done next. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104309	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104310	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, so I don't want to touch it, but maybe just expand the picture a little bit. We athletes know that even in the midst of the most difficult skirmishes in the sports field, so the game ends and life goes on. So, it would be a little funny if we, who are the opposition MPs, who we observe, had the right to observe the situation and in BiH with different eyes, to say that we hate anyone. We don't hate anyone, especially the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So that's number one. Under number two, it'll be interesting, for example. see in 5 and 10 years what will be with us Croats in BiH, and this will in fact be a clear indicator of all policies, both at BiH level and at the level of the Republic of BiH, how many Croats and Croats will remain in BiH. And what is the situation now, we hear a lot from priests and bishops who really complain and say it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104311	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104312	Of course, thank you very much for that observation, and I think that's a constructive observation. Well, I'm sure we haven't been indifferent to the situation that's been going on in 30 years. If you want and in the former state, unfortunately, people had to go out of that area with a bread belly and I was born downstairs, so it's very close to me and I'm very emotionally related to BiH. But listen, if the Croats in BiH have managed to preserve themselves for centuries from more Ottoman authorities, the Ottoman Empire, I'm sure the Croats will find a way to survive down there, but we must fight together. It is our constitutional obligation to help the Croats in BiH, and it is certain that this electoral law that is now to be changed, it is discriminatory, it can neither be proud nor Bosniak side, they must find common, they must find a dialogue with the Croatian side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104313	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104314	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I'm sure you've done very well in your presentation. In the last 20 years under which the Croatian people in BiH with one wrong policy, the wrong policies that have been made during all this time not only in BiH unfortunately and Croatia, we must be aware and aware that we are looking at just the last 15-20 years that has happened with the Croats in BiH. These few years that the government and you as ministers have been doing this for the past 20 years has not been done, contrary to just destroying and destroying the Croatian people. It is one process through which the Bosniak people must participate safely and Bosniak leadership are very important in this whole set of events without it going on. And surely that the president of the country's statement, what the prime minister said doesn't lead good communication and doesn't run what's quality and what needs to be done quality, there are no people, and that's reality. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104315	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104316	Of course, Mr. Deur, I agree with you. You know, it's been a long time, it's been abandoned a lot. I remember that in 2000, and then the coalition government was the first to break up special relations with the Bosniak Croatian Federation. When representatives of Croats from BiH came to the government then or foreign minister, he instructed them to solve their problems in Sarajevo. Therefore, it only tells you how complex and, in fact, very complex Croatia's relationship towards, according to BiH, how misunderstanding was towards the situation in BiH and, of course, there was no assistance from BiH, which is why all this was happening. If it had been understood for certain that neither Barry's amendment nor Petric's amendment would have occurred, nor later Ashdown, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104317	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. In your presentation, you mentioned that the negotiations on the strategic compass were dramatic and that the issue was at all his adoption. My first question to you is, which countries specifically opposed it? I think that's important. You won't be able to say, what were the arguments for it, but we can do it on another occasion and in fact in what way is the adoption of the document at stake? So, I have to admit that we didn't hear it in the prime minister's debate, but it's a good thing we heard from you, so if you can tell us a little bit more about it, we'll be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104319	Well, I just wanted to show Mr. Representative that it's not all that, things don't happen and the documents get adopted so easily. So they have one of their procedures, one of their processes has been going on for two years now, and each member state of course should have submitted its proposals. So, this document has been under way for almost two years, and the latest changes re-installed in the document have also largely reflected a major change in the EU's strategic environment caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and our argument was to prevent the domino effect on the countries of the Western Balkans. You have been very exhausting and well-spoken exactly how much the Western Balkans can become a polygon of geostrategic competitions. So, I'm telling you about how important it was to show you that it wasn't just that you brought some document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104320	Thank you, Minister. We're done with the replicas. Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104321	Dear Vice President of the HS, Mr. Sanader, I don't have a Bucharest, a respected minister with an associate, a respected colleague and a colleague. So I think it's important at first just a few thoughts to say. We Bridgers never in any way spread hatred for anyone, and especially for the Prime Minister of the Republic. I've spoken from this phone booth several times, he's my prime minister, and now that I'm out of opposition and I look at many of his items, thinking and decision-making, it's another pair of sleeves. So, it can't be my late grandmother Stoja of the Pure Great, it can't be my late Black Marco of Stankovec, it can't be my dad's prime minister, it can't be my Croatian people's choice. On the other hand, I'd love to, as I don't know tomorrow, to be my colleague, Maria Selak Rasdic, may be my prime minister, or here she is, if you want again from your party Davor Stier, equal respect again. On the other hand, I would like the Croatian prime minister to have a stronger guard, to have a stronger stance and that I have a filling, impression as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia as a Croat to protect Croatia and Croats more than I may know of any other interest at EU level. What concerns me as a citizen, and then as a representative of the people of Rijeka, Istria, sent my Kvarner here to HS is a few things. It seems to me that some of these EU politicians have a crystal ball, you heard the German health minister, says a man dead in the autumn cold in an interview I quote him, coming a virus more dangerous than a delta, will spread stronger than an omicron. So what are these people on? So what drugs are they taking? So which grandmother of Wang or the sons of the prophets have a direct relationship with Jesus Christ, and then they get exactly what awaits us in the fall? So let's get the people together. And then we have situations Monday, two days ago in the United States, you probably know because the document came out of the summit and they say "we have to organize with the World Health Organization to prepare for all viruses that come to us in the fall and allow every citizen in the world to be vaccinated," I'll quote on all my network documents. So, what are we talking about? What kind of crystal people are these people that they already know? As our country ordered 18 million vaccines, and we threw 275,000, and we still have 2 million worth 29 million 500 thousand euros on the lager, and we're going to throw out who knows how much. So now I don't get these guys that are watching over me whoever wants me every Tuesday morning inoculates a friend, every Tuesday and then on Saturday, extra. But also do not force and blackmail the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that those in their freedom do not want to be forced not to do so. Secondly, what worries me is why the prime minister didn't talk about the health union. The European Council said at the last meeting that an agreement with the World Health Organisation is preparing a legal framework for a future health union that should bear the fight against the pandemic at EU level. What kind of goat is that now? What health union, what frameworks? Is that why our boys were killed in the Homeland War to have someone come to me tomorrow, some body and say, and we're going to tell you what you're going to do and what you're going to do. No, I'm telling you no, man, we're not gonna stand on the front line with people without pathetics, no politics. Those who know us know that's why they're shaking. We'll stand by people, we won't, if we don't see the point, if we see we will, of course, because we're understanding people, we're doing what we see the point, but we won't be forced into anything. We are free and we will be free to stay, so our boys and our fathers were killed as well as you Croatian defenders here, and thank you for giving us freedom. We won't let her go, we'd say in the river we won't smoke, we won't. So, I want the prime minister in this term as long as he has until the end, to have more focus on his people, his country, to take care of the energy of self-sufficiency, to work on as much as we can, to protect the health of citizens, to safeguard the health of citizens and to safeguard the freedom of every individual in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104322	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the debate on behalf of the club I stopped, but it was actually sort of a continuity debate and the focus was on BiH so that I could simply move on with something that I noticed was repeated in the debate, and I think it's terribly important and illustrates actually the point that I had. And the point was that BiH does not destabilise and cause problems neither Bosniaks, nor Croats, nor Serbs but SDA, SNSD and HDZ BiH, but they do so in a way that they speak on behalf of the Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs, and then in this assembly during this debate it is kind of short, so the words Bosniaks do not give or Croats do not give, I think that replacement that pars pro toto is extremely toxic. It is the root problem that basically three political parties who are the biggest political parties take the right to speak for all citizens and citizens by putting them under an ethnic umbrella, although it is simply not a reflection of the real situation. But that's how borders are created, that's how divisions are created and deepened, and that's classic nationalist manipulation that hides in these parties chronicism, crime, corruption because these three parties don't participate in these political processes of bona fide and that's the problem. I am in these discussions whenever it comes to BiH I have always questioned and will continue to question the relationship between the HDZ of Croatia and the HDZ of BiH, I really do not want to believe that the HDZ of Croatia can stand behind all the nonsense that the HDZ of BiH is doing. I think this proposal with I.D. I don't know, I don't think that in the most recent wing of this HDZ in Croatia would happen as something that would end up in the process or in the media at all, except for some of the ones that are really, not after the 1990s, it was all HDZ, but in any case I really think that if you already have a sister's party in BiH, if you have an impact on them, without going into whether it is really an impact, what it is, and how much influence you should use it to really take them on a European path towards European values, according to thinking within the European legislative framework, because what they are doing is currently one of the main reasons why it is being stegmatised, not HDZ BiH but you are in BiH one of the main reasons because it is a problem. It's a problem that because it's your sister's party is your problem among other things and if you can solve it you need to solve it. I don't know how much thought there is about it inside your party, but my people bear your name. I mean, that's your problem. Mr. Ćovic is here every once in a while or doesn't hear messages like this or doesn't want to hear them, I don't see what the third option would be. In any case in the strategic compass there is a wording which is precise in the Council conclusions there is a wording which is terribly general, a small paragraph I will not read it here now, you have it in documents, but today Milorad Dodik in one set have devised some sort of awful cheap rhyme in which indirectly, in fact quite directly to the high representative threatens death and I think such movements in BiH where everyone drags on their side, supported by the Russian influence and influence of some surrounding countries that are also not a bona fide potentially creates long-term big problems regardless of the strategic compass [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104324	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So let's say, finally, maybe three points that are important in this report. As for Russia's aggression on Ukraine here, Croatia stood very clearly on the side of freedom, on the side of democracy, this was done by HS when we almost unanimously brought the resolution on Ukraine, it was in that same trail represented by the Croatian Prime Minister in the European Council and all of our representatives in the European institutions and before we brought it in, but also of course after we brought that resolution. This confirmed not only our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, so we confirmed if you want our identity as a people who alone was a victim of aggression, who was able to fight for their freedom, but who knows how to recognize today who is fighting on the side of freedom and democracy. The second key issue, of course, of our neighbourhood of Southeast Europe, where we are looking, where we are taking up the Europeanisation of this area because our security is stronger if we have an orderly neighborhood, but this orderly neighborhood of course means that all these countries must accept and Western values, that they must also be classified, that is the key word, to be classified with European foreign and security policy. That's something that tomorrow will be for example. to discuss in the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Policy when a resolution on Serbia is to be discussed where Serbia is also required to join the sanctions regime against the Russian Federation. You can't say we want to join the EU, but we want to be politically neutral, we don't want to be part of the West. If you are, if you want to join the EU, then you must accept both Western values and the West as one geopolitical entity whose EU, of course, is a key factor. And then, of course, the situation in BiH, I would say very briefly. In Croatia, we had two approaches today. One who stands up today may not be so strong in institutions, may still live in certain circles for unitary BiH, and the other, for the federal one. So where the equality of three constituent nations will be respected. The unitary thought that special relations should be abolished, they did so unilaterally and of course they did so thinking or at least that they argued that the Croats in BiH would then look towards Sarajevo. And what happened? In the end, because Bosniaks wanted to dominate the Croats and then turned the entity into only practically the Bosniaks pushed Croats in BiH practically into tactical co-operation with Banja Luka. So instead of achieving that declared goal exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite. What is the solution that both the European Parliament and its representatives are looking for to this day is federal solutions for BiH. It is not a question of Croatia's position in BiH, for federal solutions both Serbs and Bosniaks can be taken, and that would actually be the key to europeanisation of BiH. As unfortunately we have people who are unitary, and Croats are. So it's not just a matter of nationality, it's really a concept. In that first document, 2014 The European Parliament, which was not binding on this strategic compass, has taken a lot of these steps, efforts, but indeed this strategic document is now binding on the EU and it is therefore so important to highlight it today. Not because of what they are now, it has all been achieved, of course not, but one, one, one, important moment has been achieved where it is now carved as an official EU policy. Not all members agreed and should continue to work particularly with the countries of Quinte that have the key to defining Western policy towards Southeast Europe, as well as towards BiH. Therefore, this is not something that can be achieved overnight, it must continue to be done and these few seconds that remain I will use only to not only support the government's work but to encourage it to continue with these efforts because that strategic goal will also be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104326	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's representative, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would end up like this, we had I think the very important input of colleagues of Hajdukovic on this, and it was also going through a debate in other places about what the relations of parliaments and governments are like when it comes to these things. So, the prime minister introduced the practice of having these discussions run here, which is great to report to us even though there's really no obligation to do that, for example. On the other hand, there are obligations in law that are not enforced. The prime minister today argued that once the conclusions were classified Council conclusions. I don't think it should be a problem if there is a National Security Committee in the Croatian Parliament that regularly discusses classified matters, if members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and European Affairs have to sign statements that they will be able to handle classified data, I really don't think it should be an obstacle to discuss some things on board under the right conditions and classified things more than some of these things go to plenary debate in the Croatian Parliament. So, the entire Croatian Parliament knows the frameworks in which such a debate would be possible and I really have to support what counterpart Hajdukovic was saying that, that these things should be looked after. And if that is not feasible for any reason, then if the law that exists cannot be respected then that law should be amended. Then we have to sit down and agree what we should look like then these relations between the parliament and the government because it's totally insane that we're doing things that aren't binding on us, but we can't do things that are supposed to be our obligations. It simply shows us that our framework is not functional, no. We're having an argument, and I'm not going back to BiH individually. I would repeat what the thesis was earlier in the debate on behalf of the club that it is crucial that Croatia stresses in all formats the importance of fulfilling the promises made by the EU to the Western Balkan countries. It must not be underestimated or underestimated. So in some countries such as Macedonia, there is growing Euroscepticism, and if there is no fulfillment of the promise, the question is whether at some point, if there is any change in government, some populists will come to you and say, "If we don't, we don't need you or your EU." It is up to us because we are the EU among other things and others, yes, to prevent it. In the end, only two small remarks. As far as Africa is concerned, what we would like to point out in part was that of a colleague, Peovic, in fact, was talking about it. It's good, so I think it's a good idea for this investment cycle to start because in principle as we've had the opportunity to see with the purchase of the vaccine, always these poor countries are losers in that capitalist zero game themselves. So, the supply crisis, the crisis in energy, all the consequences of the war in Ukraine will most likely not be felt by EU countries, but will most strongly and the consequences will be felt there in those countries that do not have to say muscle to fight and which are always, always, always losers in this game and that is Africa. And that when one day it's all about our heads, when there's migrants or refugees at our borders that I think is still a better name for those people who are looking for a better life, then we're going to wonder why, where and then we're going to find ourselves in a situation like this again, for someone's account these poor people are beating up cops at the border. It's terrible and it shouldn't be like that. Instead, we should just learn from how we joined Ukrainian refugees and have equal treatment for everyone, because it is true democracy and it is the real rule of law. For the very end of the drone, what the whole episode of the drone was simply at the level of Monty Python's sketch. There is a lot of regret in this government at all, and I find it difficult to imagine what the debate on the European Council looked like and how anyone there could have talked at any level that was above the level of sketches, literally. Anyway, we can't support this report for any more reason. So much for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104328	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Maria Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104329	These reports also represent an external picture of our internal policy and of our foreign policy. And today's debate has also shown the true state of our foreign-political unity when we talk about those things that we even agree on. And what's got me here has actually limited the level of inconclusiveness and shortsightedness of our foreign policy when we talk about the relationship between the prime minister and the president in the things in which there is an agreement. So, nominally, each other's hill, let's say, collokiously, advocates the equality of Croats in BiH. What, though, have we witnessed in practice today? We have testified that when the issue of amending the electoral law was raised, instead of focusing on the content, the prime minister did not resist, but that he accused the main culprit of his obviously biggest or most important political enemy, President Milanovic. And then where does the problem arise? We have discovered here in one where we should be unique to our vulnerability. And of course this is Bosniak politics and Bosniak media immediately exploited and fingered us as the culprits for the inability to amend the Election Law, and this has indeed done serious foreign-political damage whose consequences will in the end be felt for years by Croats in BiH. Such things should never happen to us, ego must never come ahead of our common political interests, especially in those things where there really is a consensual agreement. And today, in this sense, things have gotten a little out of hand again because there are guys who are out of line, and the consequences will be very concrete, and they are already seen in Bosniak media. The second thing that needs to be highlighted here is really about our energy independence. Maybe a key sentence of this report, by the way, and a overlooked one that says our reserves in seasonal storage are currently low, so we're considering the possibility of support for filling the tanks revealing the real state of things. We don't stand well with gas. In which way we fill it, at which prices, who's to blame why the reserves are low we know nothing about. But we have very little of our own production, and obviously we have a very difficult time in the future when we talk about gas, and we have not heard about these measures nor about the systemic risk that lies ahead for us if there really is sanctions against Russian gas, given the cross-borderness of Russian capital within the Croatian market that goes beyond the gas market. In fact, the prime minister has even claimed that there is no concern about this because there are no dangers for us. Well, we'll see. We'd better always act like he does. That would be more politically secure. It'll be easy for us if there's no danger. What is a principle issue, as regards our policies and our opportunities within the EU structure itself, concerns two things. One is the covid and the health union that is currently out of the question, that the other is a matter of the commission that will assess the coherence of emergency temporary measures on the electricity market. To what extent will they intervene in our internal political decisions on how to deal with the crisis. Finally, here we always ask again the question of how powerful our influence is in European institutions, given that the prime minister loves and boasts. So when we talk about this issue of the election law of the Croats in BiH, perhaps no one has explicitly said so far that the 27-nation prime minister's intervention was supported by only five members of the European Council alone by five leaders, of those five leaders three of our countries are in the nearby neighborhood, and one of them we bought very expensive planes, one of which is Spain. There is so much we can do within the European institutions, at least with this government and at least on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104330	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club of HSS and RF-respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104331	Perhaps for the end of a bit of a heavy thought, but I will end up with one sentence of a philosopher, "The identity is a gnawing bone that you get before they peel you to the naked skin" my comment on the BiH debate. What is close to all BiH approaches today, no matter how different they differed, is that none of such approaches raises the paradigm of identity policy and that is, of course, an ethnic national identity, a confessional religious identity that is constantly used to maintain higher or lower levels of national conflict. There are no debates about them, they are untouchable totems, and here we can see it also in the debate between the prime minister and the president, there is a fine view of this style of imagination, the inability to imagine beyond that framework and this current example of an initiative to change the electoral law in the Federation of BiH. The topic is being treated as the most important thing for BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats in the importance of this topic in Croatia, there is a general political consensus and there are even the prime minister and president, as if the question of possibilities or inability for Croats in BiH exclusively to elect their president, not to be chosen by other something to solve all key problems in the country. But unfortunately, we know that, it would not be better for ordinary Croats in such BiH as it is if they were represented in the presidency by their Ćoric or some other HDZ from Herzegovina than they are now represented by probossan Sarajlija Komsic, who is no better. It would not in itself open up a better social perspective for them, which may not require us to think about working life immigration in Europe, such as the vast majority of young and middle-aged now. All of these are actually the profits of the political elite, regardless of what national camps they came from, the trophies caught by Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs who are neither Bosniaks nor Croats, nor Serbs, but members of a closely intertwined class group that primarily aims to retain their rich material financial benefits. Perhaps because of the above reasons, this symbolic place, this small fissure, otherwise impeccably catastrophically set Dayton, can be seen and treated as a potential policy and opportunity, not an anomaly for BiH. But, of course, the circumstance that, despite all the efforts they have made, all three nationalist ideologies in BiH are being invested in all these media machines that the national political camp is controlling, which are constantly carrying out small-scale pocket-buying votes in the elections, political party blackmails in public state institutions, etc., that nevertheless, there are still no number of people in that country who are willing to vote for theirs, and not for ours, by showing a clear political stance to give priority to the Republican-civilian, not national identity, which BiH respects as a weakness, and not as an advantage, because major critics of such a reality policy in BiH, it is instilling a coward's egg. The nationalistic agendas under criticism are pseudo-civil policy. If, by some miracle, politics is beginning to be tolerated beyond the identity policy of liberal democratic capitalism, or socially engaged collective identity based on values such as labour, employment, solidarity, egalitarianism, fair distribution of realised social wealth, then these bags will no longer have space, and BiH may have a brighter future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104332	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Honored Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104333	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. This is a form of pseudo-intellectual cosmopolitan doctoring of those who are not familiar with the real state of things and opportunities in BiH. Namely, there are not three peoples who are equally represented by their nationalist policies but there are minorities who are oppressed by the Bosniak majority in this case, the minority are Croats. And we're not here to tell anyone if they're going to declare themselves a Croat or... but rather to allow them to choose their identity and even according to their national identity according to what he wants, unless we want to give him a cosmopolitan document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104334	You know it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104335	So thank my colleague Selak Raspadic for this replica, which is actually just an illustration of what was said. And the insult to cosmopolitanism, naiveness, the lack of understanding of those who are suppressed by those who pressure is exactly what it was about and that is exactly what BiH is holding where it is. And we hope that this little crack is where people give their answer to the question of whether this or that representative is more important to you and how to identify yourself. You may be setting a better future. [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104336	And to you this was a replica you get a warning, it's your third warning as well as your colleague Selak you're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. On behalf of the rapporteur, Prime Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's 20 minutes I'll try to use it even though sometimes I don't think that's enough for me either, but here's how I feel, so I'm glad you stayed here and I respect you all. However, you know this how that beginning was somehow what was quite lit up, somehow there was a lot of thunder I would say this damage that was not there Mr. Grmoja sort of what the regiment said better was that the words were wiser, not louder because the flower was growing in the rain, not in the thunder, but the nomen est omen, but well everything was human, everything was human and allowed, but it is well known when we were in certain discussions, of course you are absolutely like a reflection of Croatian citizens, Croatian people, you are elected here and you represent because you are a legislative body and you have the right to question us and we are those who serve and we must be to have a high degree of understanding and tolerance and not be sensitive to any criticism and any criticism. But of course let us defend ourselves in a way that we can say because what we do consciously and consciously, we do with full responsibility because we are in the interest of national breakthrough, we are interested in the Croatian state, the Croatian people, so I am also a defender, but I do not fantasize with it, but when you mentioned Mr Miletic etc. Because those slow emotions that always come they're always somewhere on the edge of their minds and what, what, she's, like, what's getting out of them somehow turns into some kind of grotesque and then you don't really understand what they're saying. And that, and it actually leads to some conclusion that it is a very thin culture of our dialogues and polemics and that we should take more care of it because our citizens are looking at us, so it's good to leave the impression that they're proud of us. We may have different opinions, but it is good to see that one progress in the change, in the exchange of opinions, that it be a constructive debate. Let's say here we are now starting again about BiH, which seems to me to be busy as never before, this space and today, which has been abound with various issues and in the morning at the current morning, but here in the later debate just the last Mr. Glavasevic who was very impressed with the knowledge of the Western Balkans, and then later as if I saw about BiH as if it wasn't his own. I've recognized you know what the Germans would say to the ethos of spatungen or ethnic divisions. What in BiH is not so you know, you can love this or not like to watch out Mr. Covic is the president of the Croatian National Assembly body that brings together 16 different Croatian parties. Therefore, it was not some 3 parties you are talking about and Bosniak parties were very much at least 5 or 6 Konaković, Radončić etc., I cannot remember all of them naturally Izetbegović etc. So it was one spectrum indeed I would say the magnificent one who gathered. What our great credit for the first time the EU has been involved where we have prayed to mediate. I didn't tell you that we and 17 March had a bilateral strategic dialogue between Croatia and the United States. This was a global form, and then on 17 March was held a start-up meeting of this very bilateral strategic dialogue that raised our cooperation to a higher level and an even more intense dimension of our relations. We had 6 areas in which we spoke, of global issues, defence security, climate change, etc., one, one area was regional co-operation. In this regional co-operation, we recognised the importance of BiH. And just in the joint declaration, a joint statement between Croatia that adopted means two administrations of Croatia and and the United States, we also included this reference to the constitutionality and equality of the three peoples in BiH. Thus, the narrative contained in the strategic compass also went so installed in a joint statement. However, here I would say so many rounds of talks have been held and the interest and problem of Croatian issues has been recognised. I can say and testify that all intermediaries were and were therefore favored to have been positively oriented and wanted to reach an agreement. And I repeat on the Foreign Affairs Council, Croatian construction and exit and compromise have been praised. However, the Croatian people as the fewest people would probably be when you told colleagues Selak Rasdic that the Croats were down minorities you probably liked, let me give you the right, perhaps someone malicious would say there is Selak Rasdic who said that the Croats in BiH are a minority. The minority is by number, but they are a constituent people. According to the spirit and principle of the Dayton-Paris Agreement, he rests on the decision of the referendum issue from February 29th and March 1, 1992, remember if you have I will bring you this referendum question, whether for BiH you are a single sovereign state of three equal constituent peoples of Muslims, Serbs, Croats and other citizens. If you don't have it, I'll give it to you. Therefore, then, if you remember Muslims and Croats, then President Tudjman said of course you should vote for the unique Bosnia and Herzegovina. Remember that. We, when we talk, talk maybe on the surface sometimes, in our mind. We don't really have everything in our knowledge, and that's actually very important. You know it's fatal if you don't have some knowledge at some point and we're leading to the wrong conclusions and wrong approaches, so this fellow Glavasevic doesn't have these nationalist policies, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina should be arranged to make everyone feel comfortable, that everyone has equal rights. But we must not forget the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a multinational country, that's three nations. She's been like that forever. She was so decorated during the time, and stay still please colleagues Selak you mentioned were that water was wet. Yes, the water is wet, but colleagues Rasudic can also be iced, and can evaporate and we fight to be who she is. So, we'd like you to see our efforts. If you need any more knowledge, come to the Foreign Ministry. I'll tell you everything we've done. Sometimes you can't see it all together, but it's just, you know, it's a tiny bond, it's politics. You're talking to everyone. If you need the numbers of some representatives in the Bundestag, I will give it to you, because it is an important parliamentary dimension. Don't just think diplomacy, etc., executive power. You're all co-creators, of course you're all part of it. On the other hand, President Milanovic said that and said by counterpart Dalia Oreskovic, of course I agree that as co-creator I should be actively involved in the country's presidency. And I can tell you for sure that there are no two foreign policies. I can tell you right now that there is a single, good, successful active policy implemented by the government. Unfortunately, I don't see the president's activities, and he also has defined policies under the Constitution, certain levers, instruments of action. Unfortunately, he hasn't used any of them yet. What he knows about the constitution of the people is ok. But why don't we go see what's done? Where we saw the engagement, where we saw the victim, where we saw that some president got a letter from him, that he called an official and told him listen to help our government, we are here, I want to draw your attention to the situation in BiH. Unfortunately, we haven't experienced it. So that's what matters. So, if it is foreign policy, of course, it is unique when it comes to BiH, as it is, of course, our definition of both EU and NATO membership. But I'm saying here we don't have much of an activity and the engagement of the president of the state and on the other hand, you know me when I looked at and listened to what the president in Zadar said and be careful to tell an expert when someone excuses you know dirty, timid, evil, etc. It's like when a kid's afraid of something, when he's scared and I'm still scared of some burning badger, I'm surprised. I mean, what kind of vocabulary is that and what a narrative it is? Can you raise your own child on such a single narrative? Can you tell my son you're small or you can be like this man or some other man? So we have to act educationally. I am not a Croatian citizen and as foreign minister at all, I am disappointed, I am consterned with statements that President Milanovic today said in Zadar where he is still welcomed by the head of the Zadar County, which means he is, so at the head of HDZ's mayor. As for theirs, you know if it's constitutional obligations and you say it in the European Council. Of course, the European Council, the heads of government and state are involved. However, we have arranged so that there is always a prime minister on the European Council, while the president is in NATO. So that's some division, and as far as the United Nations General Assembly is concerned, one year is the prime minister, the second year is the president of the state. I think I'm a little surprised by knowing down there, because I passed Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it's someone for a European trip, it's the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For God's sakes, we're witnessing telling you Serbian separatistism, Bosniak unitarism, I don't know what's more devastating for BiH's stability and functionality, for BiH's future, for BiH's prosperity. Therefore, this should be considered. I mean, these are important facts. And don't look at everything through the prism of some individuals you may not like. Let it go! The house is built, first the house is built, and then later it doesn't matter to you. So what matters is if someone is legitimately elected and he represents that people, then it should be respected. And personal preferences, etc. It's other things. And colleague Kata Peovic, unfortunately she's gone. I think if someone informed you in time just the moment the phones were taken away on the European Council, because it's a practice. You know, cell phones stay on the side. We were able to get there then, the prime minister split it orally, and then he split it. That was, the drone dropped here three minutes ago on Thursday, and on Friday, NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg called. So, with the defence, with some kind of sending some special mechanisms that my colleague Peovic mentioned, it doesn't matter, it's a security organisation, but it's not defensive. Therefore, the one most informed was NATO. We are all NATO member states, and the EU has made clear the memo on Friday, and everyone had a table on what happened in Zagreb. They had a consolidated report, they had information, and I immediately reported on the first Foreign Affairs Council about the drone crash and on the NATO Council of Ministers also reported the drone crash and, of course, the ministers were interested in it, and none of it remained indifferent. And it's true that there's been an accident, fortunately, so it didn't happen to activate the art. 5. It's a big challenge for the NATO alliance. I am sorry that Mr. Hajdukovic is also not there because the legislation on co-operation is also being spoken between the government and parliament that the prime minister is saying he comes once a year and submits the report orally, but our prime minister comes several times, he comes several times, even showing the initiative to share experiences with you, to inform you etc. so that you may show you respect and inform you of what it is. Here's no Mr. Peja Grbin, of course, he didn't hear when he spoke to the prime minister about energy because they were as much as I remember the first sentence, all of them emptyed out in that one stream, you know these emotions, issues that didn't have anything to do with the report, then there were warnings, so you were left with as many of you left. I'm so sorry. Treatment of refugees is the same case, so you are a colleague of Glavasevic, of course there is no discrimination between refugees when they are refugees. For the first time, they force us, not to force us, but we are obliged to follow human rights conventions when it comes to refugees, of course, when people are fleeing, when exiles are experienced and the Homeland War when Croatia almost received a million refugees mostly from BiH, but there is a distinction between refugees and illegal immigration that we do. Of course no one has the right to cross the border just like that, you travel everywhere you have to show your passport, and it's not good to compare I think you know those refugees so the migrants, that's what nobody said today. As far as refugees are concerned, then Croatia is solidarity and implements the international legal of course international obligations it is a co-signator. The fact that we are a member of all these most important organizations is, of course, additional and none of us have received any objection about it so far. Of course, you haven't heard a lot from the Prime Minister when you're here, and now you might not be you, but some others have sent him over other questions, of course, so I'm sorry that there's not much more to be said. I am also sorry that Mrs. Peovic spoke about some PR car colonial policy which is actually foreign to me, so my colleague Selak Rasdic is again talking about the totalitarian regime, so it's a little bit expensive for me to talk about Croatia which is a democratic country and which is absolutely one paradigm in a European context and whenever you talk about Croatia, and whenever you want to, unfortunately, it is when you go out there and hear it then others tell you how beautiful you are, quality, good and so you hear a lot of compliments about Croatia. The same colleague Glavasevic you said was not allegedly this working group is not transparent. I can tell you that the government has made a decision on the appointment of a permanent group to apply and monitor the implementation of international measures and restrictions, colloquial sanctions. She is inter-minor, she is co-ordinated by the MVEP, Mr. Frano Matušić the State Secretary he traveled every day or on the radio or on TV, so if anyone is there transparent then we are really us. But of course it communicates with the media as much as it can because we're just coordinators, so MVEP is a coordinator, our only obligation is to control exports, and the rest are actually resolutions covering naturally their jobs and, of course, out of their jurisdiction. So I think this report, however you vote on it, by your conscience, we work on it, of course, we're very proud of our report that we wrote. It is the result of the work of civil servants, working hard to show respect for you, to present it, so that we can discuss it, therefore I hope that you will warmly accept it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-20-0.u104338	I thank the ministers. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Agricultural Land, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 182. Thank you very much, good night, everyone. The session was interrupted at 8:38 p.m.
