ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83001	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83002	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Friday and every Friday to take a look at what's been happening to us this week. Of course, the terrible war conflict in Ukraine has completely jumped into the first stage of the attention of all of us, but there are some other things that are certainly worth talking about, so the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest decided to initiate the procedure in the case of Mr Banozic's defence minister because of possible injury. 7.c. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest relating to the abuse of special rights of government officials. It is thus found that it is problematic that Minister Banozic himself signed a decision to assign an apartment to use. Otherwise mentioned Mr. Banozic uses an apartment slightly larger than 92 m2 because of a large family, but at the same time his family lives in Slavonia, which is why the respected Mr. Minister is also taking compensation for a separate life. So, absolutely his family proves that it's possible to be in two places at once. In Parliament, too, initiatives are being launched to recall Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic, Minister Coric and Aladrovic. We saw for ourselves what happened to now former Minister Horvat. It is possible, it is doubtless possible that Boris Milosevic is a man of order, quite ok. A man who lives to fight for the rule of law, morals and order. As his party president praised him from this pay phone on Wednesday, we still need to be tickled by the fact that someone shared taxpayers' money without respecting the laws and criteria. Then let the entire SDSS who obviously wants to be installed as the moral verticals of society take a deep dive in that case and exposes us to the culprit. I'll personally congratulate them first. I'll kiss Mr. Milorad Pupovac here in the middle of the Parliament if you need three times. Don't worry, it'll never happen! Most likely, man will remain where he is thanks to a coalition deal with HDZ that will again be revealed as the true and true guardian of the mythic Kerber at the gates of the hell of corruption. We've heard we haven't had a Minister of Reconstruction in two weeks. After Secretary of State Curaj has been denied, there is no excessive interest in that position. Mark's square is still closed to fences, closed to the public, which may not be bad in this case, because an innocent walker hidden behind the door of the Ban's Courts could take the prime minister's hand and drag him into the government and place him as the minister of construction, which is certainly not the fate that anyone would wish for. So the Ukrainian war horrors that we witness from day to day have blacked out all these affairs of our politicians, it has proved to be equally yearning for state dwellings and material fees for both HDZ and SDP and many others. Politicians in the ranks of the ruling have whispered to us saying that no one is in the interest of destabilising or not giving God to bring down the government in times of war conflict. That's not how you do it. Stories on the reintroduction of a mandatory military deadline of at least six months have also been updated. It would certainly be good, I suggest, and I demand that Minister Banozic at least while the minister is still coming here to the Parliament and from this pay phone all of us, as well as the Croatian public report on the current state of the Armed Forces and the level of preparedness for a possible increase in tension in the region because we know that due to the unresolved decades of unresolved problems could occur. From Serbia, of course, nothing new. They continue to wonder why the world does not understand Putin and his bloody aggression on an independent and sovereign republic, which, of course, we can fully understand. It is not clear to them today for 30 years after the Homeland War, "who is it that has drawn us apart?" Who has shelled and burned Croatian villages and cities? Who killed Croatian defenders, civilians and prisoners of war? Who the hell is to blame for the still missing 1858 people? Who the hell? Who?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83059	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now speak the esteemed representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83060	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleague, colleague and colleague, Croatian public. Here is what we heard and this week, which has been marked with several of my significant events, we can't look back at everything, but first of all, there will be an escalating conflict of war aggression on Ukraine by the aggressor Russia and, on the other hand, on the domestic this area of our internal political one scandal one of the flagrant unexpected procedure of our government on actually one deaf we have now on the legal and legitimate request of the DORH, the state's attorney who requests that the government be manifested, unfortunately such are the legal regulations, art. 34. The government law, on the one hand, to approve the prosecution of Mr. Aladrovic's minister on suspicion of committing a criminal offence for which the sentence was prescribed until the 5th year. Prison. The fact that this requirement has been acidified in the government for more than a few days, I don't know for 5-6 days, how disturbing enough it is for the Croatian public and for all of us Croatian representatives and righteous and compassionate people, because when in such and similar situations a parliamentary representative found our MIP was spotless within an hour, two, five hours the longest, gave this approval, or that immunity, to our parliamentary representative and left it to the proceedings and proceedings of the prosecution of DORH. However, we hear yesterday from our president, the day before yesterday, our Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, how they, he should be studied in depth, so Mr. Prime Minister Plenkovic, in this case you are not Mr. Aladrovic's lawyer, but the government should only formally acknowledge that he has received this request which casts an ugly light on his minister and leaves him to the fate of the DORH or courts. The one to study the legality of this request is the court, the judicial authority, and Mr. Aladrovic has lawyers, so that in a fair procedure, prescribed by the law on criminal proceedings, we simply face what is true and what is not true. I absolutely believe in the correctness of the DORH proceedings, even though if they are wrong, it is the court who will make the correction. That's it. So tonight, give Mr. Plenkovic permission to be prosecuted by Minister Aladrovic. Secondly, we see this escalation taking on more and more in Russia and Ukraine, increasing this scale, disturbing the Croatian public at the same time. But our authorities, apart from having had a public debate in the assembly for a few days now, we had a public theatre performance that we gave 124 million help in weapons not only humanitarian it doesn't count, and that convoy will move towards Russia, and I just don't know through which countries, Hungary won't, that through Poland ić, will give it to underground channels, above ground floor, that this handover will be carried out for our Ukrainian brothers attacked, it's not clear to me. In such public appearances you give the route and the number of trucks where you go. This all together doesn't look good, and our media unfortunately and our editorials still contribute to it, so it's actually creating a single climate here we had yesterday an opportunity to hear that 200 volunteers came to Ukraine and got a concrete move from an aggressor Russia and Putin to ask for an indication from us. We don't need that, it proves that we're not doing well, that we're not following this Ukrainian, aggression against Ukraine, that we're not national-safely under way, military-safe, not to raise the story on alert. And given the limited possibilities of our diplomatic mission, I suggest that only now what remains for us to be the former president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is sent directly to talk to President Putin because she only has the opportunity to discuss with regard to the impressions she left on him. It's our only chance. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83061	Thank you very much. That's what we'd do for today. We will continue to work on Wednesday 9 March and the first item will be the draft law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 15.06 p.m. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83124	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'll talk to you about the work of the assembly. It is absolutely unacceptable for the government to send representatives who do not know the laws they need to present to the Assembly and who ultimately need to defend the laws for which they were sent. Unless the parliamentary representative has reported a replica to the government representative, the only mechanism that can indicate that the government's representative is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 99.99% of cases, the parliamentary representative receives a warning because there is a thesis that government representatives can speak as they please and that they can answer questions as they please. This must not and cannot be so because a representative of the government has been sent to the Parliament to speak about the law, to provide facts about the law, to explain certain articles of the law, and then it must not happen that the Prime Minister shares notices to the MPs because they warn of the mistakes and wrong the thesis presented by the government's representatives. It is incomprehensible that at the end of the debate, a government representative has no obligation to answer the parliamentary MPs to the questions they have asked him, that there is no obligation to correct the wrong, possible wrong allegations concerning the legislative proposal. On the other hand, I am asking the prime minister and the president of the parliament and the ruling majority, what is the point of unit leaders of local self-government being parliamentary deputies who during the debate are not at all in the assembly and are not doing their job? Why am I asking that question? Most of these municipal and city leaders appear in the assembly only at the vote, at the same time they are paid an apartment in Zagreb, paid a fee for a separate life, paid travel expenses to Zagreb, etc., etc. I ask the same question for MPs who do not come to the assembly or are in the assembly very rarely. I ask you a question, how many of these MPs charge for one hand-lifting when they vote, and besides that, most of them who don't regularly come to the assembly except on the day of the vote have no idea what they're voting on? The only thing they know, they know why they vote, they vote for what they're... parties. Instead of actively participating in discussions on the law, they do not even inform themselves of what was being discussed. If they happen to appear at the debate, then we witness absolutely unnecessary, unnecessary, surreal, incestual replication when members of one club are replicating a member of that club of representatives after his discussions, and only with the aim of improving the speaker's statistics. Such replication actually shows that they do not have meetings of clubs where we should discuss the legal proposal and then there would be no need for such replicas. In fact, the purpose of replication is to express a different attitude, not to praise and express the speaker’s agreement with his opinion because they could agree or disagree and should express it at a meeting of the club of representatives at which the law was to be discussed and to coordinate their views. I also draw attention to the fact that most debates on laws should be moved to committees where they would be discussed with the position of the profession, and these discussions should be actively attended by representatives of the government before making legislative proposals, as legislative proposals would be given a much better quality and would face less criticism and parliamentary representatives and the public. At the same time, parliamentarians should be obliged to talk to their electoral base and discuss possible legislative initiatives. We must act in the direction of reducing politics and populism in the assembly because we see how our work is assessed by our fellow citizens. I don't remember when the council for its work got by citizens a score higher than three. Isn't that disturbing? Isn't it worrying that the media is carrying a little bit of thematic debates, and a lot of populist outbursts, a lot of bickering and insults, so the news from the assembly isn't quality debates, but insults and documentation? And finally, I propose to the President of the Assembly that, given that almost all epidemiological measures have been abolished, return the obligation to report through the electronic system of registration of presence in the assembly and then act in accordance with the rules relating to the salaries of parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83203	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83204	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. Some time ago, I put on a pile all the unsettled reports of various state bodies that were included in the agenda, prompted by the fact that some of them refer to 2018. But until today’s debate about them has not seen the light of day. So I wondered if the nerada of the Croatian Parliament was one of the reasons why corruption in the Republic of Croatia is so good. Among the unsettled reports are all those who submitted the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in the assembly of newly elected members. And then I wondered if there might be a wider picture, so I addressed the Croatian Parliament Secretariat with one request to provide me with information on all bodies that are required to notify and report their work once a year. The list lists some 70 different reports submitted by different state institutions, and what I further found was that each of these reports was subject to completely different rules. Many of them are not really aware of what their role and purpose is, as we had the opportunity to hear today when discussing the Free Zone Report. If the Croatian Parliament cannot clearly define the task of each individual report that should be written in it, which the Croatian Assembly should analyse and what is the consequence of not adopting or just receiving the knowledge of a particular report, then we give the picture that the Republic of Croatia is not only random, but is also a vain state. In fact, these reports, which many state bodies work hard to write and when they are drawn up, are not abstract documents. They literally write everything that happens in our lives, everything that's controversial. These reports should serve either to control key people and holders of individual institutions or to describe those problems that the Croatian Assembly should address by amending laws or by adopting new policies. Finally, if the Croatian Parliament has no obligation to take care of these reports properly, if there is no sanction for the Croatian Parliament if its obligations to discuss these reports are not followed, then I ask myself a question as to what kind of message do we send to our citizens? We come to work here, we're paid by taxpayers, and it seems to me that none of them in their jobs have conditions in which they don't actually know what their job is, the purpose, the responsibility for the violation of their obligations. If we want a better state, and I really want it, then I think we need to start with some much clearer, much stricter rules starting to introduce ourselves. The way we discuss the reports submitted must be regulated differently through the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I will present a specific initiative and a proposal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political Affairs in this very soon term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83263	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So yesterday, another important European consensus was reached at the EU interior ministers' meeting in response to the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. There has been a political agreement that for the first time in the EU, the Interim Protection Directive has been activated. This directive has been in force since 2001, but will now be activated for the first time. For us, it may be interesting that the directive was created as a result of the experience of war in Croatia, BiH and Kosovo when a number of refugees suddenly fled to Western European countries, and the countries themselves did not have a unique response to the sudden inflow of a larger number of refugees. This situation is now regulated by this directive, which gives temporary status for refugees. For the beginning of the first year, for one year with the possibility of an extension and obliges members to provide refugees with inter alia the right to work, health care, primary and secondary education, housing and monetary support. This creates a minimum prerequisite for people who have escaped from war to have a minimum condition for starting a new life. Yet at yesterday's meeting, dissonant tones related to the question of who has the right to seek this refugee status. The directive does not, originally, distinguish refugees by nationality or by color of the skin. Some members have expressed reservations that temporary protection should be applied to all people fleeing the war from Ukraine. It is clear that citizens who do not have Ukrainian citizenship live in Ukraine, and it is logical that they too must be protected when they flee from war. The implementation of the directive will now go in the direction of Member States themselves to determine whether or not they will grant temporary protection status to non-Ukrainian citizens. We hope that the Republic of Croatia will be on the side of those members who will provide adequate protection for all refugees from war regardless of their nationality. Regardless of all the determination of all members to activate the Directive on Temporary Protection, it is important to step up the strengthening of the common European policy. The EU failed to do so in 2015 when refugees from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq fled the war. This is a chance to correct that mistake. Likewise, I would like to make it clear from this speaker that by activating temporary protection, we are taking great responsibility to establish a system of reception of refugees and their rapid integration into our society. Unfortunately, it is expected that refugees will remain in our country for a long time. In this regard, it will be necessary to raise awareness of our health institutions to ensure access to health services for refugees under temporary protection without discrimination. Our primary and secondary schools will soon be attended by children from Ukraine, and they need to ensure that the young are as well accepted as possible in the classrooms. Strengthened Croatian language courses across the country will need to be ensured. This way we appeal for courses to be opened to seekers of any form of international protection. As a country now we are obliged to ensure dignified accommodation for refugees. We will also need public and private resources for this. We want to believe, like, that this first emotional response to war and openness to acceptance won't eventually go down and that as a society, we will be ready to deal with all the challenges of accepting a larger number of refugees. Finally, greater acceptance of refugees will bring about changes in the domestic labour market. Bearing in mind the deficits on our market, on our labour market, let us not forget that there is room for work in this country for everyone, and it is up to us all to ensure decent work. The Green-Left bloc club is ready in every way to constructively assist in accepting refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83343	We would now, as usual, move to deliver a position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and the first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club Most respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83344	How serious the situation with Ukraine may not be for us in Croatia yet, because we are still a certain number of kilometers away from Ukraine, but we should be aware that this humanitarian crisis, not just war, war and war threats, has spread to some other EU member states. So yesterday, for example, I spoke to a colleague I have worked with for years who lived in Poland and when he told me, and he is not someone who is otherwise active in humanitarian actions that is precisely in his cottage, that there are several Ukrainian refugees, that they are also located in his parents' apartment, etc., that they are facing a number of 100,000 people daily at their borders, when I realized that it had entered into the everyday lives of almost all Polish citizens then it was a little clearer picture of the proportion of this humanitarian disaster at the door of the EU, and soon perhaps our doors. In that sense I will once again return to what is happening in the Republic of Croatia and how much we are even ready to deal with this situation. Of course, our key strategic issue is what our army is in, and for years, we as HS in those things that we've been responsible for pushing under the carpet, we haven't seriously dealt with enough the long-term plan to develop the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, we haven't seriously dealt with the annual defence report seriously enough, and now that we're missing some things, there's going to be a question of what the funds have been spent on the moment when no feedback is possible. What we should be watching out for now, and in the long run to invest in this is certainly the Ban Josip Jelačić War School, which brings together the most military personnel from other countries, which is a strategically comparative advantage, we do not have to experience a serious war threat to know what is important to us and what we should do. But what may concern the most is the mental health problem of our citizens. Since the attack on Ukraine, I have received a large number of concerned e-mails from our citizens asking some things that have not been touched at all and an explanation in public space. How do you explain to children what's going on in Ukraine? We don't talk about kids who don't watch the diary anymore like it was maybe 20 years ago. but children who are on smart phones and who surf daily and are burdened with the news they read, and we are witnessing an information war in the society of spectacles where, unfortunately, even at the moment of this crisis, they do not choose funds to increase clickability and increase profits, and that content is exposed to our children. Another reason why it is necessary to get a response from the competent ministry as soon as possible in terms of mental threat and the way the ministry will deal strategically with this problem of a plan of reaction is what left us as the greatest result of the covid crisis, which is the increase in mental illness. The growth of mental illnesses is also evident in the possible growth of violence against women as it grew in times of crisis. In our country, unlike some other countries, you have a large number of people who have PTSD, whether it will be activated now is also an open question. Consequent use of opiates, delinquent behavior and criminal activity. These are all matters concerning the psychological consequences of this information war and what is happening in Ukraine, which we expect an adequate response from the competent ministry. And ultimately, we must not ignore the situation in Croatia. What is happening in Ukraine must not be used as an excuse for not acting and not having a ministry and a minister of construction for two weeks. Are we going to ignore the fact that we need to rebuild it and that it is waiting to take advantage of this as an apology or obviously such a lack of personnel in the HDZ ranks that we are ultimately going to listen to Hrebak and Cacic who may be singing loudly "Return to the St... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83345	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. A respected representative, Zdravka Busic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83506	... The strict sanctions of the Russian Federation. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] All levels of government by the presidents of the state, parliament and government, the ruling and opposition have been united in condemning this nothing-provoked scary Russian aggression on a sovereign state. Croatia has shown unity by expressing solidarity and support to the Ukrainian people. The Croatian people understand this best because they find themselves in the same situation almost 30 years ago. We support the friendly and Ukrainian people in these difficult moments and solidarity with his sufferings and efforts by raising his voice against this mindless aggression. In that sense, join the support set to be organised tomorrow, March 5th at 12:00 in Ban Jelačić Square. Let's all get together as large as we can and show our solidarity this way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that we are all extremely concerned with the development of these events. We are aware that there is a legitimate concern about the negative impact of the Ukrainian crisis and other political conflicts in our immediate vicinity in Southeast Europe, e.g. BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, as well as other countries in the Eastern Partnership of Georgia, Moldova, Armenia. Yesterday, Georgia officially submitted a request to join the EU, and senior EU officials expect Moldova to do the same soon. The upcoming summit of EU leaders will exchange views on Ukraine's request for the accelerated EU candidate country status, however, the Russian invasion creates new parameters that political analysts conclude and although new candidates for EU membership will have to meet the criteria as well as any country so far, only obtaining candidate status will be of very significant symbolic, symbolic support. Although it appears that the tragic events in Ukraine have pushed somehow into the shadow of negotiations on protracting points in our neighbouring BiH, however, and I think only now that the necessary amendment of the Election Law has not stopped, but has been greatly strengthened. Today, the international community is aware of the possibility of diverting attention and opening new crisis hotspots. During the talks so far, they had the opportunity to look at the real situation in BiH from all sides, and she realized that the international community understood the need to put a hasty focus on solutions to these problems and encourage representatives of the 3 constituent peoples in BiH to agree. It must not wait for a fall that can deepen the crisis, and how seriously it takes the current situation in the world is also talking about EUFOR's strengthening in BiH. A peaceful and reasonable solution is possible, an example is the city of Mostar. The revote of one of the 3 constituent nations is not a solution because unfair and undemocratic procedures will ultimately be losers of the BiH citizens themselves who want peace and prosperity and integrity and integrity and integrity of BiH, which would eventually become a member of the EU. Let's take the seriousness of the moment and the responsibility and be at the level of our mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u83507	Now, thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95309	We have a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 25. The Free Zone Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. With us is Mr. Mile Horvat's representative of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, does he want to take a word for it? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95310	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will pass through the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2020. This is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's report. The information contained in this report shall be provided by the beneficiaries of concessions or by consent holders for the establishment of free zones to which such status has been granted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for land free zones of concession users, and for ports free zones of the consent holder. The report uses the term concession users for both of those categories. Therefore, the beneficiaries of the concessions provided data for this report which they collected from companies operating within the business zone or which are users of the free zones. Namely, the Free Zone Act provides that company users must report their business in business zones and send it to the ministry by 5 months for the previous year. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development must agree on the report and propose it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 11 months for the past year, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes it at 12 months, proposing a meeting to discuss it. So it's some kind of hodogram for to make the whole thing very serious by users of concessions in their reporting because practically the whole report in a series of these actors is based on their reports, and fines for founders or users of concessions if they do not respect that obligation and they are very, very serious both for legal persons and for responsible persons in, in those legal persons. So, the report contains a picture of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act amending the Free Zones Act has entered into force. These amendments to the laws abolished the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones paid for free zones in the land area. The fee has been abolished since the time since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has shown that the Free Zone Institute has been reduced by activity in terms of changing the operating conditions for its users and, in particular, for those operating in other EU Member States or on the EU internal market. Another important reason for this change was to facilitate the business of users of the concession for the establishment of free zones due to the difficulties resulting from the pandemic of the coronary virus. The pandemic has caused unfavourable market conditions in the Republic of Croatia, which was most manifested by the decline in demand for goods and services, resulting in a resulting and disrupted regular economic activity within the existing free zones. In particular, we consider that the concession fee was charged and paid for and paid on the basis of the percentage of the amount of the revenue paid by the concession user in his business with the users of the free zone, and the amount of the concession fee did not come from the business results of the free zone users and was not directly linked to them. The report also contains the basic features of free zones, as well as data on the business of each free zone, in particular from 2016 to 2020. whereas the last part of this report refers to graphic images with a comparative, comparison of business compared to the previous year with respect to the number of employees, income, profits, exports, etc., so that it can pass through any business of this free zone in this report. As in the previous period in the Republic of Croatia, it was in 2020. business of 11 free zones and 7 land zones in Vukovar, Osijek, Krapina, Zagreb, Kukuljanovo, Škrljeva i, and Split and 4 port zones in Pula, Rijeka, Split and Ploča. Free zones Krapino-Zagorska and Split-Dalmatia have been in the process of liquidation for a long time, and the free zone of Kukuljanovo has been inactive since 2010. This results in only 8 free zones, 4 land-free zones and 4 ports being active in Croatia. And four ports. With regard to liquidation, the duration of the winding-up procedure depends primarily on the founders of the beneficiary of the concession and on the competent trade court where the winding-up procedure is conducted. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia or the competent ministry does not have an impact on the duration of the winding-up procedure, which is quite logical as well as on the decision of the individual beneficiary of the liquidation concession or on its other business decisions relating to business. With regard to the number of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, we consider it appropriate to note that the free zone system came into the phase when the first approved concessions for the establishment of free zones after 25 years come slowly to an end of its duration, so that in 22 years, 2022, except for the Krapina-Zagorje free zone which is located in the liquidation process expires concessions and for the establishment of free zones in Zagreb, Osijek and Kukuljanov, and the beneficiaries of concessions can, of course, depend on their economic interest and if they meet the requirements laid down by law, request an extension of concession or conclude business in the free zone regime. It is also noted that in March 2021, the beneficiary of the concession for the Danube Free Zone of the City of Vukovar applied for the abolition of concessions9 because of the economic interest of the free zone users, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on 28 October 2021 to suspend the concession for the establishment of the Danube Free Zone Vukovar on 31 December 2021. As in previous cases, when concessions for the establishment of free zones in Bjelovar, Slavonski Brod and Varazdin were suspended and in the case of a free zone in Vukovar, it is not about the termination of the business of business entities but about the continuation of their business under conditions which apply to the rest of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So let me explain. By removing the free zone, the lines that were building the free zone and marking the customs control regime are removed in a technical sense, and these companies continued to operate in the area under the free market regime as well as all companies in the Republic of Croatia. We mention this in order to remove possible interpretation of the termination of business of economic operators and similar assumptions. Since this is precisely about the proactive business of users of the concession that works in the interest of users of the free zone. According to aggregated data on business in free zones in 2020, 74 workers operated in free zones. The number of users was slightly increased by 4.2% compared to 2019. The users of free zones employed 2638 workers or 6.35% less than in 2019. The main financial indicators of users of free zones in 2020 say users totalled 1.5 billion kuna revenue or 8.33% less than in 2019. At the level of all free zones, a profit of 109 million kuna was achieved, even 34% less than in the previous period, and this indicator may best speak about the difficult operating conditions in 2020. The share of exporters or share of exports in the total income of users of free zones is 51%. In port-free zones, the share of exports totalled 69% while the share was only 20% in land-free zones. These percentages therefore do not differ significantly from the 2019 score. Exports including delivery of goods to the EU market and free zones amounted to 795 million kuna, which is 13% less than in 2019. As mentioned earlier by amending the 2020 law, the obligation to pay concession fees was abolished, and users for setting up land free zones in 2020 only paid compensation for the period from 1 January to 20 May 2020. In that period, the concession fee amounted to 476 million kuna, 38% less than in the entire 2019 period. If we consider only the first 6 months of 2019 as a kind of reference period during which the concession fee amounted to 372 million kuna, it appears that 28% higher in the corresponding period of 2020. So all of this is shown in the table in this report on page 28 and can be analysed in more detail. Therefore, distinguished MPs and MPs were the brief indicators from this report by the Government on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Of course, it also has aggregated indicators in its tables on page 22 where you can see the economic business of all these free zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95311	You, too. The first replica of Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95312	Thank you. The esteemed secretary of state in the report that you delivered to us is evident that some of the free zones have concessions on a certain deadline. It is precisely for four free zones during 2022 that the concession expires and extension is possible at the request of the founder of the zone. One of the conditions is that users have achieved a minimum of 50% of their operating income outside the Republic of Croatia. The request is submitted to the economy ministry, and the procedure lasts from six to twelve months. And, of course, users are responsible for the timely submission of applications. Now, I'm wondering if you have any information as to whether the existing users are planning to continue to use the free zones as they are at this point, so that they can regain the extension of the concessions probably and should submit requests to be granted to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95314	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So you've just well explained the procedure that follows after the end of these 25 years of concession for land concessions. So, to say that concessions in ports are given indefinitely they have no obligation to extend the concession. These land concessions, which highlight Osijek and the City of Zagreb, have about announced that they will seek an extension of the concession. Therefore, they must report to the Ministry of Economy and according to that procedure and to the conditions laid down by the law in the free zones will then consider their requirements and make adequate solutions or proposals to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to extend their concession to a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95315	Thank you. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95316	Dear Vice-President, the report is clear, the law is clear about obtaining concessions and business, but the types of economic activities we find are in the great process of commercial activity. Were economic strategies on track when they did not recommend the types of economic activities that create a higher value or production, rather than importing and selling at a higher price than in the home countries where they import goods? Can you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95317	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95318	Therefore, what is the meaning of free zones is that users of free zones must have their own economic interest in opening their own company in a free zone that has a special customs and tax regime and find their interest in this special customs and tax regime. If the companies don't find it, they're leaving. So the free zones then don't exist. We must say that there is little interest in free zones in the single European market. One Germany has all one when we see in those statistics, so I don't keep counting. There are only 70, 72 free zones in Europe on the European market. It means that there is no economic interest in such a kind of business because you must in the zone wire free zone have staff that monitors complete customs and tax laws, reports and costs, and you are operating on a single market where you must certainly pay your obligations whether you were in the zone or exited from that zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95319	Mrs. Big Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95320	Thank you very much. Here's a very simple question. So, in the period in which we are discussing, so for 2020, the income of users is lower by more than 8% compared to 2019, which is a significant and huge decline. Of course we all assume that there's the greatest impact actually on this pandemic. But I believe you already have some projections or some sort of template of information for the next year for 2021, so here's what I'm wondering if this situation on this issue is actually a more successful business of the user and if you have here, you can tell us at least something here's the projection of the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95321	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95322	I thank the honourable representative, so here there is, in this report there is a lot of data because these are the data sent by the users, the companies within these free zones. So, the users of the concession. What is important is that in 2020, it showed one drop, one regression of business in the free zones, transport in the free zones and interest in those free zones. In order to make it easier for the users of these free zones, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we, by amending the law last year, have abolished the concession law on the obligation to pay a concession fee that was at the level of 2% of the traffic of each free zone. So here we see that in the first year of 2020, in the first five months, they were supposed to pay only 470,000 kuna. Then the law came into force and they no longer have to pay any concession fee. So what are we supposed to do about it? - Shut up. - Shut [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95323	Thank you. Mrs. Anya Shimpraga.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95324	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State in this report, we have seen what brings about the existence of free zones. We have talked more than once in this place about the need to revitalise the earthquake of the affected area of Bania. I see no reason why in Glina, Petrinja or Sisak it would not begin with the establishment of a free zone primarily with users who are oriented to production activities. Potential users of the free zone could take advantage of the proximity of the border from BiH, the proximity of Zagreb and Zagreb airports, road, rail connection with other parts but today also highway Sisak – Zagreb. Entrepreneurs from Bania would have a central meeting place, the population of Bania would get a chance to hire and start a new chapter. Do you think there is a possibility and ultimately the need to set up such a free zone in Bania? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95325	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95326	I thank the distinguished MPs, therefore, your question is quite justified and logical in the context of the space you are talking about, but a proactive policy or first step in achieving, the establishment of a free zone in that area should be found by the economics or concession holders. Someone must, someone must find their own interest to establish a free zone there, to operate in a free zone, to charge for some service, to report to the Ministry of Economy, to meet a certain procedure, to carry out an assessment of such a request and to the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal to make a decision on the establishment of a free zone. In doing so, we must respect the interests of local self-government because it is a spatial plan solution, i.e. spatial location and documentation. Therefore, the active role must have the interests of some companies from that space, and we are here to follow them and to take as short as possible Let's allow them to come to such a solution. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95327	Thank you. Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95328	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State from this report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2020, we can conclude that the number of users or companies within the free zones falls each year, and the main reason is that the Republic of Croatia has entered the EU. However, these companies continue to come out of the free zones they continue to operate in the area, so you can comment on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95330	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, the finding is correct, on the single European market there are little interests that are then being done in a way that you are... free zones, which is why the interest is falling and therefore the traffic in free zones is falling. Of course, in 2020, the special situation with covid was when this entire economic activity was limited to somewhat reduced. So, by removing free zones in a certain area, the site where they existed does not mean that these companies that were located in those free zones stop working. The customs control regime in that area is abolished, the physical fence prescribed by law is removed and free zone as space is no longer removed, there remains a space where some companies that continue to operate according to the standard business regime in the Republic of Croatia continue to operate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95331	Thank you. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95332	Your Honor, Secretary of State. My first question is, why are you systematically working on closing free zones in the Croatian mainland? To support the fact that I am now saying what you did not mention in the report that Vukovar recently submitted a request for a suspension of the concession, the boat is closed, Osijek is on the air, Varazdin has come out, it seems that you will leave only Zagreb for geostrategic reasons. That's question number one. Question number two. Why did free zones in Croatia fail as Shannon did in Ireland,... in Latvia or Lodz in Poland, which were named top destinations for free zones? What is it that Croatia has failed and why are we in the EU the same as them? And three. A little bit of Mr. Kirin surprised me with the question, but it's not true that it's just a matter of economics, why it's only trade and services in our free zones, not like the woodworking industry like that in BiH whose four free zones have almost the same traffic Like our 11 in Croatia? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95333	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95334	I thank you, Your Honor. So, I appreciate your concern about reducing the number of active free zones, but do you think the state should intervene in that part of the economy? So, we created a legal framework, even in 2020, we changed the law in a way that we relieved certain provisions, we relieved the legal framework, that we had much liberalised the work of setting up, we gave shorter deadlines to adopt certain solutions by the ministry and the government, so we sought to facilitate the whole situation for the economy to operate in the free zones. Will they do business? It is, however, the interest of every user, therefore, of any economic operator, whether they can find themselves in a business zone in Slavonski Brod or somewhere else. Otherwise, I'll tell you Vukovar. only 31.12.2021.g. That is why they are not covered by this report [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Because it's a report in '20, and '21. the free zone has been lifted at their request. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95335	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95336	Thank you. There are several verycurricular issues. First of all, please explain to me what the purpose of the debate and adoption of this report is in HS, what is the purpose? Namely, concession holders submit their report to the government, pardon the first resolution ministry, the government ministry, the government of HS, answer my question, what are we actually doing by discussing this report and what is the consequence of its adoption or not adopting it? Second question, why are we even discussing this if the concession agreements for the establishment of a free zone are not publicly available? The third question, why are no specific users of each single free zone listed in this report? And the fourth question, the conditions for the start of free zone work determines the commission formed by the ministry who these people are, who controls their conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95337	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95338	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, the legal obligation is to discuss this report before the assembly, if it were not so likely to be a question of why it is not discussed before the assembly on this report, why is it not available to the public because certain data have been told about this speaker and probably the general public then could and hear the state of the free zones in the Republic of Croatia and I think it is one of the reasons why this report as well as many reports on the work of the institutions go to HS. You asked what was going to happen as a result of the adoption, the non-acceptation. And as soon as we go into the debate, even though we need to discuss this report, then we probably have to make some kind of decision whether it's a report or whether we're going to accept it or not. If we reject it, we don't accept it, we have to have arguments about why, it's kind of a logic that he prescribed. Free Zones Act [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95339	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95340	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am interested in 74 users who are employed in all these areas in the 20th year 2,638 workers or workers, and I am now interested if they have as users and tax exemptions and countries already don't get some money, I am interested in the fact that only 2007 and 2008 were significant production years when there was a lot of production in these areas, I am interested in whether competition in these free zones of our agricultural production and what are the working rights and working conditions and whether they are even trade-protected workers. And the workers in the free zones? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95341	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95342	I thank you, Your Honor. You have raised a number of questions here so whether workers are protected by union organisation, autonomy, autonomy of each and the obligation of the legal owner of the company that has located and decided to operate in the free zone. We have no insight into the fact that workers there are trade unionally protected and organized. It's not the subject of a business report, if it were, then they'd probably have an obligation to put it in this report. The point is that they also produce goods that are in the free zone, while in the free zone they are not customs and the state has not charged VAT, but only as soon as they are in the wire, as soon as they get out of the state's wire, they charge their VAT and customs pay their control. The relief is that you are under a certain regime more favourable only while the product is in the wire, when it comes out it is already on the market and is the same treatment as the others... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95343	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like you to explain to me a situation with the Kukuljanovo area. So this area hasn't been used since 2010, it's covered by the copper industrial zone. The area is a million squares, so 100 acres. He says that here for 12 years he goes, there are no users, and on the other hand, the industrial zone of Bakar is becoming one of the important drivers of the economy in that part of Croatia, so I don't understand why 11 full years, now going 12, that zone is holding, these 100 hectares without users, where there's interest, which is why you have a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95345	No, no, it can't do that, it can't, please. Go on, ma'am. Raukar, go on, apologize on his behalf...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95346	Well, no, I'm gonna talk just see my colleague explain, so maybe I didn't hear no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95347	...Here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95348	You can explain it to me. Maybe even a colleague doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95349	No, no, but you can't talk like that, but I apologize for him, it's his fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95350	Okay, thank you very much. Yeah, well, nice, thank you all for the apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95351	Dear MPs, so I'll try to explain with my knowledge the position of Kukuljanov, and I think the distinguished representative is the mayor here, Bakar, so that includes his, his work, he probably has more knowledge about it. So, in the river ring we have 3 free zones, these are Luka Rijeka as a port, Skriljevo as a background terminal for that port of Port Free Zone and we have Kukuljanovo in Bakr as, like this, this area that has been having business problems since 2010. So why is there a problem with business? It is likely that economic operators who are users of this concession and concession space within Kukuljanov did not manage the market well and do not have large and do not have large economic, economic dynamics, so that is exclusively the business interest of these users. Except for theirs, so we have to distinguish business in the free zones and business in the economic zones of industrial zones, two different business regimes. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Pavić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95352	Mr. Horvat, let's stick to the weather, thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95353	Dear Secretary, perhaps we should repeat once again that the free zone is an area or territory that is fenced by wire and in which it is operated by an indirect customs and tax regime to make it clear to all, and for this there should be an interest, primarily interest in not paying customs duties when importing goods, during processing or this storage so that we do not now interpret it, we can discuss it later. However, what my question is, a few weeks ago, we passed a law here on the basis of EU requirements that 40 countries in the world actually be free of customs payments or that customs duties are not paid for their imports into the EU. How much will it affect the growth or fall of those interested in working in our free zones if you have any information about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95354	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95355	Therefore, this information is rather fresh in order to have some concrete evaluations and data, but it will definitely reduce even more interest, even more interest in the business of free zones on the single market, so as soon as the EU single market is then it is less interested in operating within free zones because certain costs are being incurred in the capacities and free zones to be monitored, recorded and reported, etc. and the customs and financial obligations of these users in the free zones, and that was the reason why otherwise a free zone, this Danube area of Vukovar, which is why users asked the government to abolish it because it represents a financial burden and is not worth working under the free zone regime in, in the city of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95356	- Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95357	We have a replica of the part relating to the Varazdin Free Zones, so we can really find out that Varazdin is on land one, there is one of the free zones that are extremely successful unlike those that are inequitable and inactive and in this context, and in that sense I really think that a good job has been done in Varazdin and that, in that sense, there should still be an example where that did not work out well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95358	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95359	I thank the honourable representative. So, you're closer to that space, and you probably know how a free zone is operating in Varazdin, and we absolutely as a state have an interest in having as many free zones as possible, but I'm still talking about the way in the free zones whether they're going to be successful, it's not going to be, whether they're going to be profitable or not, whether they're going to be held in function exclusively depending on, on the users of these free zones, so on the economic operators doing certain jobs there, whether they're commercial, whether they're productive and who will then have and feel their own interest that in that regime, special customs and tax regime, they're being kept with their business, with business activities. It is exclusively their jurisdiction, we as a state are merely creating a legal framework and facilitating their business. Everything else is on the users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95360	And finally Mrs Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95361	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we have received a review here of the existence of free zones in the EU. It is evident that Croatia has more free zones and we have also talked about the decline of interest, you yourself have told the necessary infrastructure, therefore certain criteria that are needed to establish a free zone. I wonder if there are actually cases lately that concession seekers for the establishment of free zones have not been given the consent to set up a free zone either on land or in the port area. One thing I'm curious about is whether there are any free zones in Ireland, and I've found some information on Ireland's strong free zone on the Internet, and it's not listed here, if you know what's wrong with that area, since we've known each other many times here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95362	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95363	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So, as I said in the area of the free single European market, so only 20 countries have free zones in EU countries. A total of 72. I'm talking about the state of 2020 to which this report is referred. Even in 2020, free zones were neither in Austria, nor in Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden, so they were not highly developed, industrially developed countries, so apparently their shareholders found no advantages in business, business and free zone business, and none. We see that most of them are Poland, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, etc., but if one Germany does not have them, France has only 2, Denmark 1 business free zone. So I guess there's some reason why it's like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95364	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, starting with clubs, first Mr. Zvonimir Troscott on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95365	The respected vice-presidential Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow Members and respected peoples who follow us through the screen, when they actually get a little scratch under the surface of the free zone are one long, sad and complex Croatian story. There may be speeches today, and it has been about how certain free zones in Croatia are making money, how they grow and how technologically they progress. And there's truth to it. When more detailed reviewing this report today is the fact that some of the free zones in Croatia are operating positively. However, when only a little return to the past and today's situation is compared to the vision of the free zones that we as a state could create and have, for which many actors in the country have bled and lost their health, a man is truly sorry. The main things about the business of the free zones were still happening in 2011 and '12. when free zones fought with their hands and feet to continue their business with benefits in terms of profit tax benefits, customs benefits and VAT benefits. No one heard their arguments why it was important then to defend the free zones that were supposed to be pillars of the Croatian economy. The real picture of free zones in Croatia is that they are extinct, especially land areas. How, on the other hand, it could have survived and become such a giant Shannon in Ireland in the EU, which has now become a global brand and model of efficient governance. How one Poland and Lodz could succeed in the EU, in which many entrepreneurs today come to learn and develop Polish free zones models and thus support their economies. How one Latvia in the EU could succeed, which was recently recognised in Dubai by the World Free Zones Organisation as the world's best free port of Ventspills, which has entered the top 10 free zones in the world. Imagine, a small Latvia has managed to enter the top 10 free zones in the world. Who's crazy here? Over the years, many foreign direct investment opportunities have been missed, and many foreign and domestic investors have been driven through corruption of administrative barriers, justice, instability of key rules for the business of free zones through problems with unsettled catastres, installed competitions in obtaining key concessions, negative selections and lack of profession, knowledge and management in key positions. Before I go any further, I would take this opportunity to commend the people in the Ministry of Economy's operations dealing with free zones. It is evident that you are working really hard to continue with the good practice you initiated back in 2011 when you began to publish this report that we have in our hands today. Thank you for your hard work and your hard work. This is how the first one in the report is not a clear strategy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, but it would not surprise us that the main government's non-economic strategist, Čoric, before going to prison, does not extend concessions to land-free areas. It closes all Slavonic, Slavonic but that its strategy will focus only on the ports of the free zones. It is not difficult to conclude that port comparative advantages are manifested in business with non-European markets such as China, USA, Turkey, Indonesia, India and South Africa. The closure of the land zones of especially Slavonian areas will open the space for free zones in Maribor, Serbia and BiH, which will then take over all that economic potential. How inserious and insecure our government is about the economic strategies of free zones management is enough just to look at the way it is managed in Croatia and how in the environment. In Croatia, free zones are coordinated through the Free Zones Association and thank God that we have it for the very reason why they allowed us to sign the World Free Zones Charter in 2019. The government couldn't do that. On the other hand, the free zones administrations in neighbouring countries, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and BiH are located in governments where it is clearly visible to the governments, governments, cantons, counties and then the city. Something similar was once present in the free zone of Varazdin which targeted investors, effectively managed and used land and parcels in a different way than the rest of Croatia and Varazdin was and remained an example of the innovative business of free zones that today, some free zones in.../incomprehensible/... Croatia and Europe copy. Like Poland today, it used to be the Varazdin. Why not in one of the free zones in Croatia, for example in Zagreb or Rijeka raise and wood processing industry, logs as raw materials would come into a free zone and be assembled there in high-quality cabinets or high-quality parquets. The investor would get all the infrastructure, water and electricity and land connections. It would be important only to start production and not to export the logs anymore, rather than to export high-quality closets and parquets of the highest quality raw materials, such as Croatian oak, as well as to stop the devastation of Croatian forests by Slovenians and Italians. It's worse than the Milky Ways and the Turks did in their time. Working with investors, both foreign and domestic, requires systematicity and coordination. It seeks a clear vision and an active economic policy of the medium and especially long term. The surrounding countries have a clear vision, which is also recognised at world forums, and the name of Croatia has long not been mentioned there. Concession fees should be abolished because it is known that over the years some of the zones paid compensation and some did not. On what criteria it was going on, no one knows, but it doesn't even matter now. It's important that these concession fees are abolished and that we become more competitive. And why is this competition of free zones manifested? The free zone is successful if the space inside the fence is filled and all players in the zone win and win. How simple, isn't it? Entrepreneur and investor with material or semi-products easily crossed the border, exploited the cheaper working force of the free zone, returned home with finished products and went better than at home. So, victory. The host state that provided this, reduced local unemployment, created a new market for local suppliers and encouraged professional education. Win again. If a foreign entrepreneur wants to sell what he produced in the zone in the host country, for example in Croatia, he would pay customs because what he sells will be considered imported goods, in which case, victory again. The Mosta Club, as well as anyone who uses common sense, quality business and setting up a free zone, are only normal and should serve as a strategy for the growth of our domestic economy. That's why through this exposure, we're going to support the hardworking people of the Ministry of Economy who are working in Free Zones. To all free zones that shed tears and gave their health to save themselves and to all entrepreneurs who have failed or been expelled because of the wrong policies of the government. There's one of us today, after many years we hear your cry and hear your tears. On the other hand, the report as a report, we will not and cannot accept it because it reminds us of the capital work of English national theorists Thomas Hobbes, who wrote Leviathan, from which it is believed to be the origin of a known sentence that man is a wolf to man. The ruling entrepreneurs have been wolf for the past 30 years because they systematically and inhumanely destroyed the Croatian economy independently of the party, as is evident from the relationship to the free zones. The additional problem with this government is that it has both its "Leviathan" and its wolves. We tell them of course through this report a great and determined no. And of course, it should be pointed out in the end that any similarity to actual events and persons is random.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95366	Mr Tomislav Klaric will now take the floor on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95367	Dear chairman, State Secretary with an associate, I have prepared a debate on behalf of the club, however, listening to the replicas, and now the speech of an esteemed colleague, his last sentence was, every similarity to the actual events is random or so. I think that's true, but I was surprised why in this report the Ministry wrote this sentence even though free zones have been operating for many years, and their function and way of doing business for a part of the public is sometimes unknown and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia re-emerges their basic features here. The general public probably doesn't know, but I'm surprised the parliamentary deputies don't know. So, free zones and the very notion of free zones is a business regime and exactly the opposite of what my predecessor and colleague used to say, so, free zones are space within some business zone, spatial plan... by the local self-government unit, the purpose and the free zone business regime, which means that it must be fenced, that it must have a special entry and that it has special advantages related to their business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This does not mean that in these business areas that they have and within their space a concession for business in the free zone regime, that there is no economy, that it is suppressed,.../incomprehensible/... declines and that there is no economy there. This is what I'm saying because I'm the president of a congregation of such zones in front of the founders and what I've been actively doing for 4.5 mandates. So we have a business zone here very active, I'm going to say that in the example of the Kukuljanovo industrial zone, it's mentioned here as Squirljevo. And we have a free zone of Kukuljanovo and one and the other are in the same area. In the same business zone, only here is the concessionary of Luka Rijeka who seeks a concession of business in the free zone regime, they have fenced their space, 600 and a few thousand square meters and operate as such and here you see, according to this report that they operate very successfully, which does not mean that the rest of that business zone does not operate, with numbers saying they do very well. How? The business zone has 5 million squares. The town of Bakar as the founder of the zone has requested a million-square concession to be in the free zone regime. Why? For reasons when we negotiate with investors, if the Danes come, the Germans, the Russians, anyone, the Chinese, that we can give them that benefit. That we can offer them land and if they want to do business in, according to the free zone model with the benefits the state gives them, to give them space. What happened? By entering the EU, and you see it from this Report and all the other reports, you still mentioned the Varazdin zone, not that it failed, that it was gone, that it was gone, that someone destroyed it, but simply, when you look at the report, where goods are exported from that zone, if the market is Austria, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, they are EU members. So that's that part of the business. As far as the Kukuljanovo zone is concerned, it has now been in this report, which is since 2020, says it has 190 and some business entities. In 2 years, there are 220 of them now. Those 40 aren't missing. It has not been closed, so they have come into the area, but simply, investors, among other things, Italians and Germans and Croatian firms, and at the moment 20 new halls and over 2 km of new infrastructure are being built and open 300 thousand squares of new land, here is thanks to the Ministry of Economy because right now we are dealing with the issue of property and legal relations for certain particles and, among other things, from the EU funds, 15 million kunas of grants for the construction of new infrastructure. So here we're not talking about the economy in a way that some segment of free zones is being destroyed and that it's destroying the economy. It is only one tool, one element, one model to allow the economy to be more competitive on the world market beyond the EU borders. If we have been in the EU since 2013, and the areas in Varazdin have exclusively dealt with countries that are on... The EU, does it make sense to determine that job in the free zone regime, if they have no exports, I don't know, to China or America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what you mentioned was a proposal to abolish this concession fee. Well, the Secretary of State also wrote this in the Report, and here he said that there are no concessions in 2020, there is no pay, although 50% went to the budget of the state, and 50% to the budget of the local self-government unit in which they are. And another piece of information, here from the Report is very well seen, Europe's most developed countries do not have 5 or 10 or 15.../incomprehensible/... of these free zones. Croatia is 11. Germany has 2. Ireland is gone, Slovakia, Sweden, Finland, Belgium, free zones do not exist in Austria either, but what is good in Croatia is that we are geostrategically positioned, and this is seen from this Report, that they are doing extremely well and will remain business in port zones, it is definitely, now with the construction of the Zagreb coast in Rijeka, with the construction of new traffic routes,... surely in that regime and very successful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, Luka Ploče, also Vukovar. Those who don't have an interested investor, he doesn't make sense to exist. So we have a business zone that, through the urban plan, has taken up some space, economic operators operate in that area, local self-government units build infrastructure, negotiate, create conditions, come investors and thank God, there are more of them. And there are huge investments. In Kukuljanova space, last year there were a billion and 200 million kuna investments. In a city with 8,000 inhabitants, 1,000 jobs will be opened. It says here that Kukuljanov's zone is inactive. Yes, it is a free zone, but it is not a business zone of Kukuljanovo, it in its business model has this advantage to offer to an investor who comes for now of interest does not and what is certain, we will not extend the contract because it expires this year. A concession agreement for that free zone. Why? Because in Kukuljanova we have a free zone of Skriljevo and there is no point in having 2 when we are in the EU. So this is a report for every praise, it is an indicator of the direction in which we are going and the economy with this kind of leadership, with the development strategy, with LNG, with the city of roads, with all these benefits that the Croatian government is creating at the moment, it simply has to be successful. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95368	Thank you, too. Now it's the Social Democrats' Club and Mr. Zeljko Pavić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95369	The Honorable Chairman, secretary and associate, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, my colleague is leaving right now, and I just wanted to mention why there's no point in insisting on a free zone in Bania. I will repeat again what is said several times in the assembly, as the secretary mentioned, as I said in my replica, as Mr. Klaric said in his statement that the free zone is territory, meaning territory, the area that has been fenced and in which it is operated under a special customs and tax regime, means business is slightly different. Why? Because, here, we heard a little while ago if we were to say, our company is working with a company in third countries that pays customs duty so that the customs duty is not paid when the goods will be processed or processed in Croatia, after which customs and tax refund is again sought, it is easier to operate in a free business zone. Also, if foreign companies want to work in a free business zone in the sense that they do not pay customs duties when importing goods to Croatia, do not pay taxes, they can work there in a free zone without those obligations. In addition, some incentives can be obtained in the free zones, meaning incentives for micro-enterprises, incentives for those mentioned earlier tax and customs incentives, then there can be incentives for eligible costs of new jobs related to the investment or investment project, incentives for eligible training costs associated with the investment project and then we have some other incentive measures that are related to... investment activities, etc., etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, in order to open a free zone, there should be an interest of business entities in that area, in that territory. Unless there's an interest, there's no one to point it out to the government or the ministry. That's what this is about. And if that interest doesn't come out, then there's no way that free zone is opening up in that territory. It's an answer to a colleague who may have a good idea to help Bani, but not with a free zone, because there should be some special interests to deal with in the free zone. Perhaps to propose another model, to create business zones in Bania, and then all business entities operating in Bania and opening new jobs get different incentives, to maybe cut taxes on that area, that's something else. However, such a model and such a request is actually unfounded and I don't think there's any point in discussing it at all. As for the report, the report shows us in one section that we have some slight increase in the number of business entities or users using business zones on the one hand and on the other hand we can say that when we look at the report that we already had here in the assembly perhaps a year ago a report for 2019. We see that the decline compared to 2018 was about 20%, so 2019. Some 71 users did business in the free and business areas, which was 20 percent less than in 2018, we now see that something increased by 3 users compared to 2019. However, what is again on the other side is not confusing but actually indicates that a completely different activity is being carried out in free zones is an indication that now in a number of free zone users we have fewer employees, which means that the work done in those free zones has actually changed and I think that in fact most of these business entities that do this in business zones mean I don't say all of them, but most of them are actually engaged in the storage of goods and it's actually some kind of transportation of goods that comes into Croatia and then comes out of those free zones. There's very little processing industry in those areas. There may be in these areas which are located in certain locations because it is appropriate for goods to be easily transported with cheap transport if it is a ship's transport and after that by train to the same zone, then that makes sense. It was that question why we don't have free zones like Lithuania, Latvia, I don't know what countries were mentioned. See, so business entities open their businesses in free zones in countries that are closest to the market with which they operate or where it is easiest to approach them with means of transport because transport is a very large percentage actually in the price of the cost of a particular product. So it makes sense that Pula and Rijeka have actually filled their own, their free zones and that they are successfully doing business because still down comes a large amount of goods with ships and a large actually this hot spot for the exchange of these goods. On the other hand, we have indications that the total revenue of free zones is about a billion and a half kuna, which is about 8% less than it was the previous year, but in the previous year it means 2019. We had a 14% drop compared to 2018, so the drop slowly stopped. But when you count the percentages you know what it looks like, when you count the percentage to a small amount you get a small number, so that's what it's about. I think that given that we recently passed a law on the basis of this EU requirement, which is, which we should have implemented in our legislation, that we will not charge customs duties for some 40 countries from third countries and that means we will actually lose further interests in working in or operating in free zones. Namely, if you don't meet these conditions, it doesn't make sense to do business in a free zone because it only makes your work harder and then you move from a free zone to a business zone. Now, moving into a business zone isn't as simple as having some big drives, you might have some machines inside, and it's tried to set it up in some free zones in a way that sets up different fences again, and that's fine if these business entities were located somewhere on the edges, so it could all be isolated together, and then it's no longer a free zone after that, but after that, it's a business zone where the business entity continues to operate normally. Now let me not elaborate further, I have tried to explain why we must not misinformed our parliamentary representatives here in the assembly, and the public that something is wrong, primarily because this part that is related to business zones is not a matter of activity that the government will or will not implement but is implementing at the request of business entities. And if there is an interest, if there are spatial possibilities in the area of individual units of local self-government then it can be done and it will certainly be in the interest of all of us because we will have an increased number of employees in the area. And in particular, this is the goal of unit leaders of local self-government if they have employment or have no unemployment at all if their unemployment falls, then you have a leader at the head of that local self-government unit as many, four, five mandates as it does, that's about what it looks like to you. Therefore, it is the interest of all of us, however, in order for this interest to be fulfilled, there must be an interest in business entities, it must be the interest of investors. If that interest doesn't exist, we can't have free zones and we won't have free zones filled. That's why the free zone on the mainland is going down, so what you did was a free zone in Varazdin was shut down, there's no more, but there's a business zone. Unfortunately, a small defect occurred in Krapina, the area is in liquidation and there will be no business zone, there will be some propulsion, but the business zone will not be a business zone opened on another territory, and probably one part of the owners who were in that business zone who owned those land. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95370	You, too. Mr Branko Grcic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95371	Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have heard actually where we might be able to locate problems with free zones in Croatia. So the key question for me is why do we have this breakup between the land and these coastal areas, why do these land-landers fall and enter themselves in some way disappear, and why do these ports, so to speak, succeed? The second key question is exactly what your colleague was talking about earlier, so if you have a regular zone in the neighborhood, a business zone, and a free zone next door, the free zone is empty, and this one is filling up and there is investing. So all those responsible people who do this, I invite them to study why this is happening? What are the conditions in these entrepreneurship zones, and what are the conditions legally defined in the free zones with everything that the free zone by definition is? And let's see what can possibly be improved to make these free zones in Croatia more attractive. Of course there is a limiting factor, it is certainly the date when we entered the EU and when we accepted stricter rules of the competition. They are restrictive when it comes to aids and different instruments that can be applied in different ways to say entrepreneurship infrastructures because both free zones and business zones and business incubators and all of this is part of this broader concept of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The second thing that is seen from these data, which are included in this report, is that the covid has also significantly affected the business of the entities in the zones, so now we're talking about billions, billions and a half of kuna incomes or profits or I don't know about other export parameters achieved by the entities in the zones is quite difficult and to analyze some trends because there happened what happened in our environment. But it is certainly imperative to see that in a legal sense and in terms of supporting some instruments, free zones can be made even more attractive than is currently the case. When I speak locally then, of course, I am concerned and not thrilled with the fact that in my county, Split-Dalmatia County is being liquidated by a free zone, let's say the mainland dish because this port works and shows certain results. But we know what is the key difference compared to the objectives set in establishing free zones between coastal or these port zones and land free zones. Therefore, landland was to be primarily developed towards strengthening industry, hence production, and these land-based land-based areas in particular where certain services are being provided. Let's say when you look at the Split-Dalmatia pardon is in Split-Dalmatia County, but the port is a free zone then you see that there prevails exclusively the storage of goods, so imports, repacking, transportation to some new locations and it is not something that gives some particularly great economic effects. Some of our people will be employed and that is fine, which is also important, however, for the contribution to the overall Croatian economy and GDP, the effects are relatively, relatively small. When we look at the measures that exist there, and I see that there are certain misunderstandings. Being in a free zone doesn't mean much of an excessive benefit, and that's probably why there's no great demand for settlement of free zones. When we talk about VAT, when we talk about paying customs, excise duty, etc., it's actually more about delays than any kind of release. So that's the advantage that you don't have to immediately pay some VAT or customs on certain imports of goods, especially if you want these goods to be processed, processed and re-exported. Only when the goods are finished on the domestic market will you really have to pay import, customs and excise duties and VAT because each import is paid VAT. And there's this key difference when we look at the meaning of the entrepreneur and his position in the free zone that he's in a more favourable position in terms of liquidity, but nothing further than that. Although this may also be a very, very important factor and may be encouraged to choose as your colleague said earlier. So this is actually about the business regime. What happens next to free zones? It's hard. It's hard to predict. The Croatian economy is, unfortunately, particularly in a region where I, from which I come, is debilitated by production, so the classical industry that we have always wished for in some way, and on the other hand, it returns as a boomerang because it continuously reduces that production capacity. Especially by the shore. And that's what the problem of the end I come from. In major crises such as this latest Ukrainian one, therefore, this severe Russian aggression against Ukraine without, without clear causes and goals will certainly affect our tourism this year. If the crisis is prolonged and if it really is this worst scenario that we hope will not happen, which is that Europe will, in a certain way, be exposed to the need in any way to include it in all of this, then it is clear that it will have repercusions in the tourist season. And that's what I'm afraid of and that's what I'm afraid of in some middle and long term for our shores that are definitely highly dependent on tourism. Especially Split-Dalmatia County. So there's very little production, there's very little new investment in the manufacturing sector, we rely on tourism, many families only live on tourism from renting apartments and providing certain additional services, and when big global crises like Covid are happening, like now this great war, unremembered in these areas, then it's clear that it's going to have repercusions on our lives and on some medium-term standard of people because when you have such a expressed monoculture as that is tourism in those parts of our region, then you have to hope, not to say hope but to fear that in these situations and our position will be quite, quite difficult. Well, that's where I'd stop, so I'll say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95372	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Mrs Ursha Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95373	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, enough has been said so far. To me, there are some questions that I think are kind of logical when reading this report, which takes you to continue to look at these situations around, about the free zones in Croatia. Because and a half, just at the beginning of the finding of how many free zones there are in a particular European country we see that it varies very much, so let's say in as already said in one Germany are enough 2 free zones, with us nominally 11, some in liquidation, Kukuljanovo has not been functioning since 2010, so it's not clear why so many free zones are being maintained. Of course you're saying it's a need from the field, people from the field are looking for concessions, but here I think they're free zones like Mr. Bakra said one of the tools in business, so it seems to me that the ministry in this sense should also be more active about, about and establishing free zones, information and certainly the question of why business in business areas in the Republic of Croatia is more or less in, as a fellow Greek said in storage, repacking, rather than in production. What's the problem? That's why the free zones didn't become an incentive for the economy, but it became one of the arms for the trade. Are these incentives, therefore, that the reliefs in the free zones are likely not attractive enough for the production to be started and that some stopper would be sought? These are the same questions for both the government and the ministry. I don't think after 20, 30 years, it can only be determined that free zones, especially land-based ones, are slowly dying. These ports of free zones that are used of course to store there they are doing well, which is logical, but the very purpose and goal of the free zones are obviously not, is not, has not happened. Well, according to this report, it's obvious. I would still ask again the meaning of the Kukuljanov free zone if there were no users since 2010. I understand that the copper industrial zone is perfect, I may be exaggerating perfectly, but it's doing a very good job and it's developing. You say it's a tool, you haven't used that tool in 11 years, and you're holding in the middle of an industrial zone 100 acres fenced, you're going to have a free speech, so you're going to answer me, yes, but that's a question that's being asked. Which is why 100 acres of fenced... and it should be. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95374	I warn you, I will have to warn you, both the representative and the representative if they do, yes, if they talk to each other, for they are not to be allowed to do so. ... Here you go. You'll meet me for coffee later. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95375	I didn't start, so I don't consider myself responsible. Several times both Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues said the free zones were fenced, fenced, wired. Well, here's what I'm gonna do later. I'm gonna ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain the situation. Which, which is why there's something fenced up, as Mr. Secretary says, 100 acres in an industrial zone that's progressing and that's developing well, thank God, here's hoping that you'll explain it here because when you spoke on behalf of HDZ in the presence of the HDZ Club you spoke about the Bakar Industrial Zone, you didn't talk about the Kukuljanovo Free Zone. You just said it was a tool you didn't use on data, you didn't use it for 11 years, and 100 acres stands. So here's the question where is the point, what's the point. And in the end, unlike my colleagues, I would support my colleague, Shimprag, because I think now in areas like Bania, which has been devastated before, and then there's this devastating earthquake, we can't just look at it with, from the position that economic operators should organize and request a concession for a free zone. I believe that the state should also give signals and incentives and information, and as I was saying at the outset, obviously reviewing these reliefs offered in the free zones in order to enable one end such as Banija, which is indeed completely devastated, has been here for more than a year that their houses have not been restored, let alone what else, that as Mayor Bakra says, this tool is to be used for the purpose of reviving that space as well as similar spaces in Croatia, but Banija is certainly in the first place. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95376	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreskovic, will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95377	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, the debate on free zones is a good example on which we can prove why Croatia is sometimes not only a random but in vain state. Several MPs before me pointed to the fact that free zones in Croatia are either being shut down or actually not achieving their economic purpose or achieving those objectives in other countries. Why is that? Well, among other things, in my replica, I've asked a question here to the present proposer's representative what is this report for? The answer was, so as soon as there's a report, as soon as we discuss it, it's obviously something to do. In a similar way, he answered the question of what the economic zones are for. So his answer was so if free zones have other Member States then there is obviously some reason. One of the major tragedies of the Croatian state is that we have in the ministries, in the competent authorities, people who do not know how to articulate themselves, which is the reason for the existence of something and what a single document serves. And now I'm just gonna look back on that report. Therefore, in accordance with Article 25. The Law on Free Zones concession holders submit their reports to the competent ministry by May, the competent ministry shall submit a report to the government by November, and the Government shall submit until 31 December all for the previous year to the Croatian Parliament. The law does not stipulate what will happen if a concession holder does not submit his report within the time limit. The law does not stipulate what will happen if the government does not submit its report to the government within the time limit, nor does it stipulate what will happen if the government misses its deadline, and no matter what happens to the report later when it reaches the Croatian Parliament. It is discussed in the working body of the Croatian Parliament, in the home Committee on Economy. However, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which define the powers and role of the Economic Committee are not prescribed what happens to individual reports. So I ask, of course, that it will be adopted because the ruling majority is obviously unquestionable, but what does that accomplish? Which we have received as a legislative body through this information contained here. The Croatian Parliament has two essential roles. One is the supervision of the work of key institutions. Regulatory bodies shall be controlled by the Croatian Parliament and, when the reports are discussed, the failure to adopt reports, for example, of the State's Attorney-General's Reports, should mean that the head of an institution should be changed. The second purpose of the report is that as a legislative body, the Croatian Parliament is given information on what is happening in a particular sector so that it can amend its legislation and labour rules. None of these two functions can be read from the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. Who are we going to replace if we realize that there's something wrong with that report? Government? The Minister of Economy? A concession holder or a user of a single free zone? Who? No one, because it's not prescribed anywhere. What are we going to change in legislation? And obviously nothing, too, because we don't have any elemental data for that. When we talk about this elemental data here's what's wrong. To start working conditions and start working on some free zone determines the commission. The commission is elected by the resolution minister. There are no criteria, it says, from which sectors members of the commission come, the criterion of which is unknown. No one controls their conflict of interest. Therefore, several people will find that a person who has applied for a concession meets the conditions. They will agree on a draft solution for the start of work. Since concession holders themselves can be users of a particular business zone here is the basis for various corrupt actions and bargaining. Is it any institution in the state body on the radar to check it out? It's not. Secondly, the existing concessions for free zones are given to different periods. Some of them are running out soon. Very likely they won't be restored. The content of these contracts is not publicly available, we don't really know whether these terms are even, which is also written by anyone controlling these contracts. Third, it's not even known who the users of each free zone are. It's listed as such in general and in jutura. And when we talk among other things about the reasons why free zones in the Republic of Croatia failed to achieve their basic goal, which is to be some pillars of development and congestion of the economy let's also think about these data. It is said that the Vukovar business zone made an investment in 2020 from an idea of 8600 kuna. It is not said, though, what was the amount, nor who invested it but 8000 kuna. Then we have a free zone of Kukuljanovo, a free zone of the port of Rijeka Škrljevo 270 000 kuna. I won't mention this to Kukuljanov. Well then we have a free zone of Osijek 33,000 kuna investments. So then we have a free zone of Zagreb 2 million kuna investments. I say there's no record of who invested and what he invested in. Then we have some free zones of type of Split-Dalmatia County that are shutting down and then we have very interesting data for the free area of the Ploče port in which investments worth 221 million kuna were made in 2020. Now, if you'll excuse me, but I really don't understand what the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia is, and since free zones can get different subsidies, different forms of aid that we can't control again because they're not even listed in this report. I don't even know which pages we could look at, collect, analyze these data that I think should be an integral part of this report. But if we have a free area of Vukovar for which a special law has even been passed and if we have an investment of 8000 kuna, and for example in the free zone of the port of Ploče we have an investment of 221 million kuna, I would like to know how such a large disproportionate and difference occurred. How, then, in other topics on the agenda, we will be able to direct our debate, how we will be able to submit proposals for laws and amendments if we do not know what is happening in the Republic of Croatia on such important topics at all. And now I'm going to go back to that initial thesis of a state of disorder, a vain state where the authorities don't even know what their role should be. It seems to me that we should start by setting up decent, fundamentally decent rules for submitting a report from different competent authorities in which it will be clearly defined for the start of what their purpose is. Second, precisely defined what these reports should contain. Third, the consequences of missing the deadline for the report to be submitted within the prescribed time limit. Fourthly, when discussing the fact that the report is unadopted, it is noted or accepted by the ruling majority by acclaim. None of these rules are in the Law on Free Zones, nor are there any provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, of course there are no regulations under which the Committee on Economy works. And then we wonder why this country is allowed to do whatever it wants. Well, because that's what HS decided and let it happen. And if we want to turn Croatia into the state it should be, then HS's responsibility in the process of discussing and adopting different reports should be put in motion. Well, that's the first starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95378	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates, the first is Mr Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95379	I believed that the experience of previous years would be taught this report with a smaller, shorter debate, and with more knowledge of something to be discussed. Therefore, by law, as well as amendments and additions to the 2020 law in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty, 40, Art. 41 fines are prescribed from 15 to 75 thousand kuna, the founder will be punished for the offence if he starts working before the solution is issued, etc., within the prescribed deadlines adopts the rule, everything is prescribed, everything is written, everything is known. But if we are talking about the economy, and free zones are among other things, one important segment of this economy and development, then we need to talk about something much wider. Something that's been going on for years and something that's happening on the ground, and it's often being neglected and demeaned. The work of cities, municipalities, units of local self-government which are the first and main step in the launch of any entrepreneurial or economic activity in a particular location, in a particular area. In the debate in front of the club, I said that the Free Zone Institute is a simple tool that allows the economy to operate according to a special regime. Done. Anything else prescribed by these regulations, operating conditions, building some space with special inputs, customs controls and everything else is prescribed and that is known and if an investor who wants to operate in that unit of local self-government or the business zone has to do with it, can thus enable them to operate in that regime. But to think about the economy in part, segmentally speaking of it is wrong. We remember that big shout and the hook around the LNG terminal. What's the situation now? Who's he bothering? Is the sea colder, as they said, because they will drop balastic waters, that something has become yellow there, we see a beautiful boat tied to the coast, everything around it is clean, nothing smells, not even noise, and Croatia has a gas supply direction. What is an entrepreneurial zone and what does it have to have? It has to have infrastructure, it has to have plumbing, it has to have sewers, it has access roads, it has to have telecommunication, it has to have optics, it has to have public lighting, if it's possible industrial colossium, it has to have solved property legal relations 1/1 because no investor is going to buy something that isn't, we have to have an institute and the right to build and service rights. Among other things, and this part about free zones, if anyone wants to do business. So if someone has requested that in their business zone it can enable the investor to operate under free zone conditions, and that means that the farmer, the type of one in Varazdin, that it was useful for them to do business in the regime before because they worked with the market in Europe. But by joining the EU, what advantages does he have and has obligations? So people just give up on that regime because it's not worth it. There's only room being fenced when an economic operator comes inside it. The space is available to investors. When we talk about what development means, no investor will come to a space where there is no infrastructure built, and infrastructure mainly builds units of local self-government and cities and municipalities. The model of how something is created means long-term investment, hard work, let's just look at land books. We recently passed this part of the law relating to the construction of land books. Let's look at this part of the EU's funding, how much of it has been withdrawn in infrastructure building, in these kind of entrepreneurship zones. It was all done by people on the ground, with cooperation, of course with the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Government because they are the ones who create preconditions. I really have to thank the Ministry of Economy here for the transport that's amazing because without their transport, a lot of things wouldn't be possible. And you wouldn't be opening jobs. Thank God, I've got 5,000 people working at Kukuljanov's and they're going to work another 5,000. We have 21 letters of intent. But none of those 21 Letters of intent do not show interest in business [[Thank you. Time.]] in free zone mode because [[Intruder: Time.]] products are exported to EU countries. [[Intruder: Mr. Klaric, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95380	Time, time, time. No, no, no, no, no, no. Well, if you like, if you'd like to answer. - Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95381	Thank you, dear colleague Klaric, at the beginning of the presentation in front of the club, you mentioned that 220 business entities are located in the corporate zone of Kukuljanovo in the town of Bakru, which is a truly respectable number. Since today we are talking about free zones, and the town of Bakar is 25 years old and there is some connection between the establishment of free zones and business zones in the city of Bakru, whether these business zones were in some way wind in the back for the development of entrepreneurial zones and which the town of Bakar actually took advantage of now and well, because by weakening the interest in the free zones of its resources, it has shifted into the construction and functioning of entrepreneurial zones because here, we rarely have the opportunity to hear positive experiences of people from the field, which you certainly are. Most of the time we hear comments, criticism from people who didn't work in the field, so here, it's useful to hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95382	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95383	Here, the zone on Kukuljanova was at the same time imagined during Yugoslavia as a place to move the dirty industry from the city of Rijeka out of the city of Rijeka. In the 1990s, it died, declared a twilight zone, and there were no investments in it, except that several companies that were transferred to that space in order or ended up in liquidation and bankruptcy or ceased to exist. In 2004, the new structure launched an investment cycle that set up the area in such a way as to build infrastructure, prepare terrains, solve property-legislative relations and attract economic operators with numerous advantages, 30% of the release of municipal contributions if the headquarters in the area, minimum prices and permanently built new infrastructures, and now 5 million squares of those zones from the initial ones that were thought of only a few prepared for investors. And at this moment [[Intruder: Time.]] investors come and build their facilities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95384	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95385	Thank you. Well, since you've mentioned yourself. 40 Laws, you say everything in it is well defined. No, infringement provisions have been defined in relation to the concession holder, and among other things, if he does not submit his reports. But I'm asking a question, what about the responsibility of the resolution ministry and what about the responsibility of the government itself? So, we're discussing the report that the government submitted to HS and we have the right to say whether it was doing well on the free zones or not. And when you talk about free zones being defined according to their performance depending on how much infrastructure there is, so isn't it logical that these amounts of investments that have been made in each zone, they say that the government or state has invested in building infrastructure and if we have a large disproportionate proportion of one business zone, such as Luka Ploche compared to all others, we have the right to ask ourselves whether some entrepreneurs have been granted there, and how will we determine that if we don't have any information about it at all? who were entrepreneurs who used a certain business zone, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Or free? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95386	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95387	To be picturesque. Last year, we invested 26 million kuna in infrastructure building and the next year's report will probably say that 26 million kuna was invested in the zone. We don't invest anymore this year because we invested that year. So is Lucy Ploche. It's also in the free zone of Squirljevo at my place on Kukuljanova. There are no.../incomprehensible/... there were minimal investments, I think 26 and some thousand kunas, preparing some terrain. Why? Because all the other investments in infrastructure building, in everything they needed for their business, were invested long before, and this one. 45 speaks of the obligation of one who delivers data. These are the data according to what the Law stands for and what the Ministry provides, they collect and deliver as a report to us, and the data was delivered by those who are bound to deliver them. Not the Secretary of State or the business of Luka Rijeka or Ploca compile their reports. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you.]] They got 'em. they deliver them to the Ministry, and the Ministry brings them together to us in the form of reports. [[Thank you, sir.]] for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: You were, you were clear, Mr. Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95388	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95389	Thank you. Dear colleague, we have a theme for today's free zone. So your industrial zone is brilliantly organized, it has great progress, it has its own meaning, it is a blockage of development, not only of Bakar but of a much wider area. There's no doubt about it. That's what I said a few times, too. But we're talking about free zones. What's the point of having a free zone since 2010 that hasn't had any users? Here, that, I keep asking you, and you answer me about the industrial zone, you say it's a tool, and that tool hasn't been used, apparently because if it was used, you'd have a user. Which one of these benefits?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95390	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95391	Here, I really thank you for this question. So it's about the same zone. It's the same zone and that freedom zone and this industrial one that's talking about making huge progress. But in that zone, in that area where you say it's developmental, it's bombistic, it's all 5 is that free zone. As an element, if Mr. Pavić shows up and wants to perform production, storage, whatever, that I or my people as owners can enable him to do so in that space. So it's about the same zone. The free zone is in the area of the industrial zone, in the same area is the free zone of Škrljevo. This one here in the report, doing excellent work, is it there? She's in the same space. Only in that part of the space, of a million squares, since the interest of Luke Rijeka was gained by the Republic of Croatia on unlimited, they are that space of their 600 thousand squares build and operate in free zone mode. [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95392	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95393	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Klaric, free zones played a very important role in the economy in the Republic of Croatia until the Republic of Croatia was an EU member. Since becoming a member of the EU, free zones have played a different role and a different role, so can you comment on that a little bit?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95395	It's very simple. The question of cost-effectiveness, i.e. the business intention of the entrepreneurs of the plan, whether they want to do business with Indonesia, America, China or whether they will place their product in Germany, Austria, Slovenia, EU member states and now the question is why, if I am doing a product that I am going to export to Germany, would use a space of free zone on which I have to build, where I only have to introduce an entrance that must be monitored, so customs and everything else comes to me when I don't need to export my goods to Indonesia, to Africa, Japan, I don't know where, outside the EU. So most of our entrepreneurs, and it's a clear example of this in Varazdin business, and look at the report on where the goods are exported from these business areas that are still operating, and that's why I'm saying that this number of 11 and of these 8 that are active is too large and will eventually be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95396	Thank you, Mr. Klaric. - Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95397	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Klaric, on the basis of not only knowledge but also great experience today, you spoke about the formation and functioning of free zones. However, we have a 2020 report ahead of us. And as if we're forgetting that in that year we passed the Law amending the Law on Free Zones, that in that year we stopped applying the Rules on how to pay concessions for free zones, that it was above all the years of the pandemic of Covid disease that violated regular economic activity, so please how much did all this reflect on the work of your zone or zone?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95399	Fortunately for the investment and investor pandemics did not reflect, the interest is greater than ever, investments bigger than ever, and at this point building down if you want, you can try. But if I wasn't just talking about my zone, we have our colleague Loncar down in Zadar County, we have his Poličnik zone, let's look at that zone, so they could also ask for this part to have a certain area of their zone, that part of the free zone, and probably both the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia would give a concession, but there was no investor interest in it. So the investors are coming down, here's the company now... and recently bought land with them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The expansion of this area is evident. So, Davor Loncar and his associates plan to work and create an incredibly successful business zone in Zadar County, the fact and at this time as you speak pandemic. So, and this law, the government came out to meet the economics, even concessions gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95400	Thank you, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95401	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, you are a long-standing and successful mayor of the city of Bakar, and what I must especially stress on this occasion is that you have created a city worthy of life, business, housing and that these conditions are far, far better than before. You are also changing the economic picture completely throughout the Primorje-Gorski County better. What you mentioned in your speech is the number of employees in the Kukuljanovo zone, as well as projections for the future. I think you mentioned 5,000 and in the folks' period of the new 5,000 if I'm not mistaken, Kukuljanovo will soon have more employees than there are the number of people in the town of Bakar itself, so I'm interested in actually where you draw your workforce and how you manage to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95402	Here's your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95403	Here's a thank you. We do not consider the Bacar industrial zone as the area of the town of Bakar, it is the first already industrial zone of the entire Primorje-Gorski County, including Croatia. If we don't think that way, then we're not on the right track, and that's exactly what we're doing. I'm saying, Bakar has about 8,000 residents, and only in the zone at this point without cooperatives is over 5,000 employees. But what's a fit back to Bakru after 400 and a few million kunas over the past few years has invested in building infrastructure. Fit Beck Bakru's, are free medical examinations for the employees. Every pensioner will now receive 300 kunas of Easter and 300 kunas of Christmas, buses where people in all 12 villages of the town of Bakra ride absolutely free of charge, pediatrician, logod, 5 kindergartens, first leaguers in basketball and everything else we try to enable our citizens and that is the purpose of investing and investing in the economy. It's beautiful to make sports halls and parks, but without an economy, there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95404	Thank you, I know you're happy to list all that, but the time is coming, thank you. Now, Mr. Sinisha Yankee, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95405	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we're talking about free zones, but here we're also talking about business zones because they have divergences and similarities, so here we see that some don't understand what the meaning of free zones is and what is the difference between free zones and business zones and why, at this point, many free zones are being shut down, as the example is doing. They are shutting down, changing their structure, as an example of a free zone in Varazdin is changing its structure and is no longer a free zone. It is precisely the reason for the number one entry into the EU, which is the basic reason, and that is one of the first reasons why once free zones were formed because there were certain benefits because we were not in the EU and for this same reason as counterpart Klaric said, I will repeat it in the replica, for this same reason many free zones no longer achieve those basic privileges that were achieved before we were in the EU. The interest in free zones still exists in those areas in the Republic of Croatia where exporters are oriented to third countries, means countries outside the EU where they can still achieve these privileges and that is exactly why certain free zones are being put out because examples of the Varazdin free zone are practically and there are no exports to countries outside the EU, and it is highly concentrated on the EU space and if we look at the profits they have essentially been among the strongest business areas in the Republic of Croatia. And so the owner's interest is to change shapes, founding forms, and normally as I said from these interests of liberation and various benefits they were founded and for the same reason they are currently shutting down. I would like to take a brief look at the business zones in general and complete my colleague Klaric here because here he is visible to know what he is talking about and to draw attention to both the ministry and to all fellow parliamentary representatives that we should think in the following way. Since we are coming here, here are a few of us who are here from local self-government who know the problems of forming, so here are the free zones of such generally business zones, and I think that the possibility of forming a business zone that 99% form and so many critical units of local self-government, and without them there would be almost no business zone, and even a significant number of free zones should think that it allows units of local self-government and that it is integrated into the Law of Execution. So just like when we build roads or examples it's still still defined in the construction of cemeteries, so you can own someone on those two, on those two infrastructure projects. Let's just say he works for the business zone, you can't rule out anyone. And it's a big problem in forming a practical zone and operating many zones because you have those private co-owners, the owners of areas that just don't want to sell out of them only known reasons and not 200, 300 square meters for the road, and then that plot where you could eventually continue to form a business zone. And that's one big problem, and the problem that ends up going on from year to year, and by intervention in the Law of Extortion, I think it would greatly help not only local self-government units, but also the economy to further develop quality development. What counterpart Klaric said in order for you to form the zone you must bring in a significant number means roads, sewers, plumbing, electricity. So you have to invest tens of millions of kunas and the automatic value of that land is increasing and people who are co-owners let's say private co-owners in these zones where someone on, through a spatial plan and urban plan draws up a zone and automatically raises the value of that land unfortunately often they don't want to sell it. And so on and so forth. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95406	You have replicas. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95407	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to hear and think another leader of a Croatian city. Free zones should be seen as part of the entrepreneurship infrastructure, which includes both free zones and business zones as well as supporting institutions. Joining the EU and changing the tax and customs regime have reduced the demand and opportunities for business in free zones. The Republic of Croatia has responded by abolishing concessions, but this will not significantly help and it is precisely strengthening the entrepreneurial areas that you mentioned yourself, investing in infrastructure and accessibility for entrepreneurs that units of local self-government should go. But we can't also say what we've heard many times today that free zones have been and are useless and haven't done that job they were supposed to do if some external conditions changed, of course, that local self-government units should adapt and adapt to what we've heard about. and positive experiences. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95408	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95409	That's right, not only do local self-government units adapt, but this is exactly an example of adapting entrepreneurship to new conditions. It is very simple and as I said, entrepreneurs were agile in time and were looking for models of liberation and customs, etc., more favourable business models and formed free zones. As I said, times change, relations change, and normally that those free zones are practically many that no longer export to third countries, so outside the EU no longer have these benefits and no need to be as formed as such, but they continue to function, they continue to operate, they still have the opportunity to expand and to continue to do quality business and thank God many of such zones have achieved their sense of existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95410	Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95411	Here's the esteemed mayor and colleague of the Yankees, I can only say now that ours, our homeland there around the Varazdin business zone and the free zones that were made 10-15 years ago by the Principal, say, Yalzabeth later, down around you around this Varazdinske Toplice, and the Chakovec that I'm not speaking has contributed exceptionally to the development of our landscapes. You practically don't have unemployed people in villages, young people, women. The only problem is that there are small salaries in all these areas. All those investors who came, they all came to them, all their infrastructure was secured, but the labor force wasn't paid right. That's one of the problems. And the second and my grandfather also took it right there in Yalzabet, it went for peanuts, it's for kuna, two, people aren't told what it is, they're out of capital, and that's why they're not going to sell now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95412	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95413	Yeah, I doubt it's right for the kuna, but here I know that we can't, and I'd love to buy for the kuna, two, five, but when we buy it, it's EUR 10, we buy the ice, and we have to bring on all that infrastructure that costs tens of millions of kuna. Normal times change, other relationships, other prices were in the '90s, others are today, and the different price is estimated when you buy agricultural land or already when you buy meanings through a spatial or detailed urban plan when a municipality or city forms a zone then normal and that assessment is slightly higher and more expensive, so here I am now in individual cases I can't and I find it hard to enter. It is that many foreign investors who have built their special entities in the Varazdin County so far have been giving relatively low wages and here we need to turn around more. our business entities that are sometimes more quality than foreign ones. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95414	Mrs. Big Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95415	You mentioned the changes and needs on the market, while we heard from the secretary of state that the negative trends in the business zone are justified by covid. Here I looked at the previous year's reports a little bit, and the data suggests that, for example, in 2018, the number of zone employees was almost 2900 today, so 2500 jobs were less and, of course, trends were changing, clearly that one part of the pandemic also caused adverse market conditions and the decline in demand. But for example, there is a clear drop in addition to that number of employees hanging and falling of total income. So in 2019, income was a billion and 500 million, let's say 2017. 2.5 billion, 2017, 2018 billion and 800, and already in 2019 and 600, therefore, it is not only this pandemic that causes less business, nor the entry into the EU, which we have also heard as an explanation because all these years have already been a period when we were in the EU [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] A colleague from Bakar said all this [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] It didn't affect his zone, so do we really need better access to free zones? [[Intruder Radin: Ma'am Mean Time.]] [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95416	Time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95417	So you asked me about the free zones, so it's clear if I see a very significant link here between the reduction of interest in business zones, the disgusting of business zones and the automatic in the report goes and the incomes and the number of people in the free zones is smaller, so I don't see any problems here. What we mentioned as the secretary of state means the state intervened in free zones that freed them from what we did here at this high house, so it freed business zones from paying those obligations they had towards the state. So business i.e. and business, and then free zones are primarily defined and formed by the interest of local self-government entrepreneurs and those as such businesses a quality of business again in each free zone [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] depends on the mass of things. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95418	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95419	My dear colleague, you mentioned the Authority and I agree with you, but there is a model of declaring the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I responded to the replica because you reminded me of another thing that the ministry and we all have to think about, imposing sanctions on those who don't activate the land, and they bought land because they started to show up speculators buying land at the moment when the price is 50 euros, seeing the development that it is, they don't activate it, so they don't run business activity, and then they sell at a much higher price than they paid. And I think that there must be some kind of restrictions, or legal provisions, that will force that investor inside the business zone to enter with the intention of building, to give him full support. If it does so from speculative... build within some reasonable time frame in some way limit it to lose that land at the price at which he paid it. Because, in any case, speculation has already begun to come to light. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95420	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95421	Yeah, that's another problem that we all see and notice when we form zones and basically when we have formed zones. We put through the contracts an even contractual provision that it should run business within three years, but you don't have a legal provision to end up with that land that he bought from you you take away, but in a way we kind of went a little bit by what let's say scare the potential investor. Unfortunately, we do not have mechanisms, and in any case, it would be good if these mechanisms were in place and they could be applied. On the other hand, it is good that at least the tax is chosen to resell land within two years without paying taxes to define it in any case, so that many then transfer it to their own homes, etc., there are all sorts of speculations, etc. And so we meet unfortunately with all kinds of problems in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95422	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95423	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Jenkač, you have talked about the differences of free and business zones, especially their importance since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, and here in this report we have a whole series of specific features of these free zones saying that although the free zones have been operating for many years the public has sometimes represented an unknown and then says that this is a particularly fenced and marked space in which economic activity is carried out under special conditions. The retail trade is not allowed in free zones. Furthermore, it states that traffic only takes place through certain entrances and exits where it is necessary to provide rooms for the operation of the customs service, for part of the book's operations, users must also conduct separate accounting in those free zones. What is very important is the value added tax is paid at the time he leaves the goods free zone, but only when it comes to the EU and Republic of Croatia as opposed to third zones when you're not paid. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95424	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95425	Well, here's a thank you, colleague Branka. You have read a good article well to those who may not have read it in essence and what is the basis and what are the propositions of free zones and what is ultimately the difference between a free zone and a business zone. And that's what we have here, colleague Klaric and I were saying that by changing Croatia's relationship with the EU, our entrepreneurs' interest is losing interest in a free zone, or God forbid there might be a new interest in free zones somewhere, but we see it primarily in port cities where goods are coming outside the EU, and it's practically logical in the north, again, on the other hand, we're more focused on the EU and we don't have these opportunities, we don't have ships to transport goods to China. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95426	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now, here... And now it's Madam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ankica Zmaic, who will speak finally on behalf of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95427	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today we are discussing the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and during the debate we heard a lot of things both positive and negative, but the report provides data as they are. In 2020, 11 free zones were operated in the Republic of Croatia, the same number as in 2019 and 7 land free zones and 4 ports of the free zone. Krapina-Zagorska Free Zone is a free zone and the free zone of Split-Dalmatia were in the process of liquidation, and the free zone of Kukuljanovo from the Primorje-Gorski County was inactive in 2020. In 8 free zones, 74 users operated in the Danube free zone of Vukovar 6 users or companies, in the free area of Luka Rijeka, Škrljevo only 1 company, in the free zone Osijek businessed 15 users, 21 companies operated in the free zone of Zagreb, in the free area of Luke Ploče 9 users, as well as in the free area of Luke Pula, while in the free zone of the Luka Rijeka area in 2020, 4 users and in the free zone of Split operated 8 users or companies. In all of these free zones in 2020, 2,638 workers were employed, which is 6.35% lower than in 2019. The most employed workers in the Luke Rijeka free zone in the port of the free zone are 915 workers, and at least 29 workers in the land-free zone, the free zone of Luka Rijeka, Škrljevo. We see from the report that users, i.e. companies, deal with most of the storage in these free zones. When we look at the revenue achieved by all users, both in land and in port free zones, in 2020, 8.33% lower than in 2019, as well as the profit achieved, which is 33.95% lower than in 2019. Here, a few years ago, they were also operating free zones in Slavonski Brod, where I am from both Bjelovar and Varazdin, but now they no longer operate, but those companies that were users of these free zones continued their business in those areas, but within some business or business areas. The fact is that the free zones since their establishment have contributed greatly to the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia or in the area where they were founded, we can freely say that it was one wheel, a stopper of the economy, and back a few years of free zones are being shut down, and the economy still has its significance and growth, and companies continue to operate, produce and employ. I believe that this report is like everyone here who is present from the HDZ Club we will support for and make up all of those provisions that the report should stand, and the fact is that the data is shown in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95428	Thank you. And Mr. Zeljko Pavić, who will present the final views of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95429	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Mr. Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. If we look at this Report and.../incomprehensible/... this, what this Report looks like and what are the parts of that Report, we compared it to 2019, the report is almost identical for the simple reason that there is nothing to add or take away anymore. When we discussed this report, on the Committee on Economy, we all agreed that the report is good, numerical indicators are what they are because unfortunately they cannot be different at the moment. We have tried today with these discussions to draw attention to the misunderstanding of the free zones themselves, we have tried to draw attention to fellow parliamentary representatives and the public, because it is actually a free zone and who and how it can establish a free zone and what are the conditions for establishing a free zone, after all, and what are the conditions for working in the free zone. We need to be aware that we have a lot of things that we can criticise if we talk about government work, about the work of individual ministers, but those things that are good, we have to simply praise and say, these things are good. This report is good and we as the Social Democrats Club will vote for this report because there are no shortcomings in this report. The real situation has been shown, the situation on the ground has been shown, the situation in certain business areas has been shown, it has been shown in particular to areas which are port business zones, especially land-based business zones, we know what the differences are, we know why problems are happening in business zones. We have turned our attention through our replicas that there is a possibility that even bigger problems will happen, given that we have passed the law to abolish some more customs duties from some countries, therefore, our business, our entities, our entrepreneurs, are no longer interested in working in these business areas and we need to be aware of that. No one's going to do their own expenses and raise costs to satisfy some interests that don't make sense. Therefore, business entities come out of these free zones because they no longer have a business interest there. And I think that's where we all need to conclude that it should be clear to all of us. It must also be clear to you that the opening of free zones, unfortunately there are no colleagues here. It's not just a matter of state, it's a matter of entrepreneurs who want to work in the area in the free zone and the matter of local self-government units. If these interests are not available, a free zone in a given area cannot be opened. And it doesn't make sense. Why doesn't it make sense? 'Cause it's gonna stand empty. This infrastructure will be invested with big money, you need to bring both gas and electricity, the Internet, so that I don't list sewers, water and everything else, and then no one will use it. And we need to be aware of that. We also need to be aware if we want to attract entrepreneurs we have other mechanisms, we have business zones. We can draw business entities into our local self-government unit through business zones. We can give them some relief, we can free them from some givings per year, two, three or five. We can give them some more subsidies. We can further stimulate them in another way to open up jobs in our local self-government units. However, the mechanism for this is not free zones. And I'm asking you to understand that, and when next year we're going to discuss the 2021 report or maybe in a few months, that we don't have the same discussions on the same subject and the same ignorance that was present here today. Once again, our club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95430	Thank you, too. I can see it's gone. Is there or isn't? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda and also the last item of the agenda today is - The proposal for a decision to declare the 14 May "Croatian Day of Sugar disease", the Proposer: The Committee on Health and Social Policy is the Proposer of the Committee on Health and Social Policy on the basis of Articles 85 and 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. It is, isn't it? The government delivered an opinion. This is the chairman of the Committee of Renata Sablar-Dračevac who will introduce us to this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95433	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. From its 37th session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy addressed the President of the Croatian Parliament, and at the initiative of the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Metabolism The proposal for a decision to declare "Croatian Day of Sugar Disease on 14 May" in order to give additional importance to this topic twice a year on the World Day of Sugar Disease, held throughout the world on 14 November. Marking and Croatian day of diabetes on May 14th. It is one of the contributions to the impact on health improvement, prevention, early detection and treatment of diabetes, its complications, and raising the quality and length of life of all of us especially the youngest generations. Given the pandemic proportions of diabetes, and the fact that more than 40% of patients who do not yet know he has a disease, it is important to raise awareness of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens more frequently, that diabetes can cause anyone to suffer. By preventing, early detection, timely treatment, we increase the quality of the patient’s life. We reduce the production of complications of diabetes, on which treatment is spent 88% of all the means to treat diabetes, which is 19.8% of the total amount of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance per year and, of course, extend the life of the sick. In 2020 310212 people with diabetes were registered in the Republic of Croatia. Previous studies show that only 60% of patients in Croatia have been diagnosed, so the total number of patients above 500,000 is estimated. Sugar disease is the third leading cause of death with a share of 7.8% in 2019. Diabetes is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, blindness, limb amputation. Complications reduce the quality of life of patients, while the concomitant treatment of complications makes the most of the treatment costs for diabetes 88% go to complications. Information on the world’s, therefore, sugary day, World Sugar Day is held every year on November 14th, according to the International Diabetic Federation’s recommendation, with the aim of raising global awareness of diabetes, and indicating the possibilities of its prevention and treatment. The topic of last year's marking of World Sugar Day was the availability of concern for people with diabetes, if not now, when? So this kind of practice, I believe, will continue in Croatia, only now it will be twice a year and it is very important to point to the problems of this pandemic disease and because of the large number of people who are sick. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95434	Thank you, too. Before we go to the replicas, Marija Selak Rasudiæ asked for a word for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95435	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club because we're talking about an extremely important topic. About half a million of our citizens are already affected by diabetes, and what are we doing to help them? This is the question that we should discuss today, because of course we all support that we also have a Croatian Day of People with Diabetes, but the day as such is a declarative nature. I'm sorry that we didn't get a more detailed plan here and work out how, apart from the announcement of the day we want, we need and we can help people with diabetes and I'll immediately set out two very specific things here. Diabetics and these little diabetics, their parents have collected 32,000 signatures to approve the drug, to come to Baqsim's HZZO list, so it's a medicine that children can get without needles. That our kids who are diabetics don't have to be afraid of needles when they're taking medication every day. The Ministry or HZZO has done nothing. Why can't this medicine come on the list and why we don't help, primarily our youngest diabetics, and then everyone else with this revolutionary drug where no needle has to be used. And the second question, I put it in the budget as an amendment, however, there was no hearing, and that is to allow funds to store medical waste for those with diabetes who now have major problems. So we have two very specific demands on how to help the quality of life as diabetics. If we're going to declare Declarative days, then we could make sure that they [[Intruder: Thank you.]] live and in practice, concrete assistance. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95436	The apartment is, of course, approved, but we continue to work as usual lately. - Mrs. Crescent. Andreya Maric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95437	Thank you, dearly respected colleagues, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, here I must thank you as a member of the Committee for accepting this initiative of the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Diseases of Metabolism whose member I am and who, in the end of the line, have done this, put this into the procedure and thank you for all the sessions, the thematic sessions which, among other things, have been dedicated and will be dedicated to diabetes. We worked both in January and November, there was a session on decubitus, etc. And I believe you will continue to do so with our support. The next task we have to do is the resolution on diabetes. We have from 2011 and exactly what has been touched by a colleague is also the task of a new resolution. So today we are talking about declaring the Croatian Sugar Disease Day on behalf of the Committee, and that is the procedure that is on the side of the Committee, and what is related to the tasks that will be listed in the new The resolution, is there a move by the administration [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And of course the waist [[Thank you very much.]] Will you support it all? [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95438	Intruder: Answer./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95439	Thank you, colleagues. Of course, thank you and for your complete engagement around means this announcement of the day. This is an excellent initiative, and it is really necessary to warn citizens at least twice a year about what kind of pandemic they are facing and what they need to look after. People respond very nicely to these health actions that happen during such days. Yes, we definitely have a resolution on diabetes adopted by HS at a session held on 17 June 2011, and there are definitely new experiences now, some new knowledge and I believe that the administration will accept it and that, therefore, the profession and administration will bring a new resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95440	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95441	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, so here we are talking about a diabetes that represents a major public health problem, but also a socioeconomic problem. The great costs are the treatment of diseases, the great costs are complications of this disease, we know that Croatian health care is trying to monitor all trends, follow all the guidelines in terms of introducing the latest and most modern medicines, but also, monitoring and developing health techniques precisely on the subject of the youngest. We know that approximately 2 years ago on the HZZO list a single aid called SAP, it is a sensory device that controls glucose levels throughout the day and also sends insulin pump information on the exact application of the required insulin. This is exactly what is useful for the youngest patients, and here, of course, Croatian health care will need and must follow all trends to make it happen. As little complications as possible and the consequences of this disease. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95442	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95443	Thank you, dear colleague. Yes, this, these insulin pumps are an excellent solution and have proved to be extremely useful in practice. I would point out once again only this time that type 2 diabetes suffers 92% of patients in the Republic of Croatia of these 500 thousand, means 92% of these types 2, whereas type 1 suffers 7% and is detected in early childhood or at the time of the disease and some other types of diabetes mellitus about 1% of patients in the Republic of Croatia. The biggest cost anyway goes from this 92% that we might be most focused on with this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95444	I was amazed by the number 500,000. You said 500,000? which has from increased to disease [[Sabljar Dračevac: So 310,000 has been diagnosed.]] Okay, well, I'm not supposed to interfere, but I was curious. [[/Intruder Sablar Dračevac: Who have a diagnosis, but every 4...]] Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95445	Thank you, dear colleague. Here I welcome the proposal for a decision to declare May 14th on the Croatian day of diabetes because you said yourself there are over 500,000 people in the Republic of Croatia whether it is diagnosed or not. We also mentioned here the type 2 diabetes that is one of the most common diseases in this matter and what is significant is that it is a disease that can be tempered, perhaps even withdraw by changing life habits, primarily by changing eating habits, by reducing body weight, but by increasing physical activity. And that is why it is necessary for these initiatives to provide citizens with as much information as possible and to increase awareness that they themselves are responsible and are able to prevent and control exactly Type 2 diabetes. And that's why it's good to point out these things again today, and of course we're not just talking about it twice a year, but all of you as health professionals all year round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95446	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95447	Thank you. Here first I'm going to relate to this part that the vice president asked me to, so some estimate is that it's 500,000 patients because it's believed to mean that it's diagnosed in the Republic only 60%, and that means 40% of them have no diagnosis at all. Some estimates in some world studies go even more that each other, another person, or patient, has not been diagnosed with this disease. Yes, it's very important that we stress all of this, the issue of prevention is extremely important, and it's excessive body mass, too little activity, but also an unhealthy diet that is very, very strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95448	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95449	Dear fellow citizens, well, here's a real number and diagnosed and potentially ill is when we keep in mind how many of us there are, so every 7th, 8th citizen is in some way threatened by this diabetes, and also keeping in mind that this disease is also called a quiet killer, and I think that the situation is serious, and we all probably have a defense mechanism in us that motivates us to think that those bad things aren't going to happen to us, while those nice things are going to happen to us right now. I would also like to emphasise here the efforts of our healthcare professionals either from HZJZ, any of our family doctors with professional associations who, in our streets and cities, not only when these days are but throughout the year, organize education for our population prevention measures, but we know that response is not always at the best level, so here we are certainly still looking forward to a lot of effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95450	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95451	Thank you. Yes, very often these health actions are organized in our markets, and I would even say that citizens are very happy to visit and to watch and control their sugar and their pressure because it is most often about such activities. But I agree with you that this is a serious public health problem not only because of the number of patients but also the high cost of HZJZ 19.8% is going to mean most of the resolution of the complications of the diabetes mellitus, but these about 18% are going to self-medication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95452	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95453	Dear MPs, first of all, I must express my satisfaction and commend your initiative here today given that this is a disease we have said and we have heard a quiet disease that destroys many organs in our body. I have one question for you right now, and here we have heard that there are various actions to measure sugar, but these actions are actually responded mainly to by people who are at home. These are developments in the markets, in front of shopping malls usually during working hours, for the time being are our workers or fellow citizens who work in jobs. I therefore believe that there should be a different activity in order to allow them to participate in such actions, since they usually find themselves too late to have diabetes because it happens in some kind of systematic examinations or if they happen to be ill with another disease, then they are determined to have diabetes, and they are not aware of it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95454	That in principle a very affected working population is and means, of course, that the majority of patients in the period from 65 to 75 are then 79% of patients suffering from TIP 2 diabetes, but between 18 and 24 years of age, 27%, it's a big one that almost 30% of people have diabetes mellitus, and not even 25 years old, these are significant numbers in the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95455	Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95456	I already told you at the stop what I want to know, so I'm not interested... in the declarative exchange and that we have a day of diabetes. Of course, though, it is our fundamental task to change something for these people in practice, so let us help them. Not to have a nice day when we will remember them, a job done but to manage to fight for their rights and to raise awareness of their position, of course, by working to prevent them so that they don't have more and more diabetics because it is now a serious global problem. In this sense, I'm interested in very specific, do you think it should be supported that Baqsim comes on the HZZO list, a medicine that is a glucagon without a needle. So which, at a time of hypoglycaemia as aerosol, is stuck to the nose and thereby greatly facilitates, especially small diabetics, the handling of disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95457	Absolutely co-workers, like you and I, agree that we really need to take care of our youngest population and that such technological reach has been earned by our patients on HZZO's burden. Why? Because that's, that's our future, that's our kids, and I think any calculations with that age group shouldn't come, they shouldn't be taken into account, but like you, I can only be declarative about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95458	The next replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95459	Thank you. Fellow Members, of course, we support every raise of public awareness about this really serious illness and epidemic we actually have, especially type 2 diabetes, and especially among children, however, the whole narrative that happens around it actually puts responsibility on the awareness of citizens who should be aware that by eating themselves, of course, they can prevent it, and on the other hand, it is allowed that in schools, for example, there are wedding machines,.../incomprehensible/... so machines where kids can buy sweetened drinks, sweetened so much that actually, if they drink them every day have a great risk of diabetes. At the same time, we will give large money from HZZO farms for medicines for diabetes treatment, and we have not done basic things to move from the market products or at least their high availability of those products that actually cause diabetes in children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95460	Thank you. Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95461	Absolutely, colleague, I agree with you. So these machines at school are therefore an offer for children to take the most possible, unhealthy foods to satisfy the moment of hunger at that moment, not what they brought from home or what they were advised to take, and of course, we should have well-organized meals at school, so these problems would be much less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95462	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95463	Well, fellow Members, of course we welcome this Committee initiative because we heard from you that diabetes is widespread in our population. Of course, it is important to encourage preventive checks, and it is also important to act. I'm on my own, as I know that you, too, participated in the local community right now in conducting these preventive checks, and I know that we've had mostly about 500 measurements, mostly 5 new cases, let's say or 5 cases that are outside the allowed frames. And therefore, it's actually important and to talk about this and to encourage, in fact, that as much and as often as possible people do reviews. I once visited the Association of Diabetics and they actually complained about the great cost of meaning both these strips and chains, it is also a special diet, here, we hear that they must also collect signatures for some medications and here, I believe that both you and this day will also influence the health sector to take care of this issue as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95464	Thank you. Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95465	Yes, unfortunately in the past year is meant for patients who are suffering, who have been diagnosed with a disease and who, who are suffering from this disease, have reduced the number of test tapes on which they have the right and of course needles and everything that goes into the control kit. And control of the sugar itself is very important and can show us this, some changes, so it's important that patients know that they have to regularly control the sugar in the blood and the damage is that it's reduced and even more limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95466	Thank you. The next one will be the club.../incomprehensible... ah, now.../incomprehensible/... I will open the debate and the first one will be the Club of Representatives of Mosta, and the Honorable Representative Marija Selak Rasudiæ will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95467	I will immediately say that I support this initiative and I am glad that we are dealing with something that is seriously affecting the lives of our citizens. Not only do we have a serious public health problem, almost half a million people by estimates of diabetes, but it's a growing problem, which is linked to a number of other diseases and where we don't see a slowdown trend. When we add to this some other risk factors such as obesity, where we are at the top of Europe when we compete in Croatia, means poor health habits of our children and adults, the lifestyle that potentiates these same health habits, especially when we look at the lives of children who are less and less and less able to regularly feed in a classical way, and increasingly left to various food supplements that consume daily in walking sandwiches, sweets, not to mention drinks that are gasted and everything else that is largely sugar-rich, which is often hidden in these other classic foods as some type of flavor enhancers that makes you consume more. So not just in those candy we're used to, but in everything else. It's a serious threat to society, and we have to face it. What's devastating is that diabetes develops and that type one diabetes in small children. So we're not just talking about type two diabetes anymore, we're talking about more and more and more little kids for unknown reasons who are suffering from type one diabetes. In that sense, I think, apart from declaring this day a declaration, that we can achieve a broader social consensus to do much, much more for our diabetics. And so I will talk here about two very concrete things that I would like to agree on in the Croatian Parliament, to fight for them and thus improve the quality of life of Croatian diabetics. The first one is... without a needle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's this about? So it's a revolutionary remedy for life-threatening hypoglycaemia, which, in the form of aerosols, is stuck in the nose of an unhappy diabetic. He is present in Slovenia, Germany etc. The medicine is new, the medicine is revolutionary, the medicine is expensive. When he showed up on the market, and he's particularly important to those youngest diabetics. The petitions have been launched by associations of people with diabetes to put HZZO on the help list. However, 6500 signatures were collected in the first wave, and HZZO refused. We know what happened to the cystic fibrosis medicine, what it meant to animate the public in putting this medicine on the HZO list. We can do the same when we talk about this medicine without our pressure and without our awareness of the public it will never happen. We here really have a great responsibility and a role in having a concrete impact on the lives of Croatian diabetics if we decide to target the real problems they face, and then together we fight for their medicines and other things like the medical waste storage they need to improve the quality of their life. After the first wave rejected the drug, diabetics did not give up and the second petition started. The second petition was a far larger number of signatures, bringing together nearly 32000 signatures. Therefore, at the Zadar Association of Cukrici, they were not satisfied with the HZZO decision or with the number of signatures collected and organised a new petition. We now have a serious number of signatures of Croatian diabetics who have been collected to get the medicine on the help list. And let's hope that these speeches of ours here in the Parliament, and I believe that this is in everyone's best interest, we are talking about the health and life of half a million of our citizens, will contribute to making this problem more conscious and that this medicine finally comes to the list of aids. Because a petition of citizens is not enough without our vote and without using our position as parliamentary representative in helping our citizens in a very concrete way. Without enough media pressure, we won't be able to fight together to make our diabetics better. Almost 36,000 signatures have been collected today, and it is an incredible success. Obviously, there are a large number of people who want this medicine to be classified and finally become available in Croatia for crisis situations. I hope that we here too will agree on this and that things will change when we talk about HZZO institutions and in practice. Another thing I want to talk about, which I have already advocated in terms of amendments to the budget which, unfortunately, has been rejected, perhaps because it was an opposition proposal, concerns a specific problem that people with diabetes face and society as a whole. It's a medical waste disposal. More specifically, it is about needles for the administration of insulin chains, sugar measuring strips, sensors, and consumable material for the insulin pump. All these orthopaedic aids they have been using daily as a protocol in life with diabetes. The applicable laws and regulations relating to the management of medical waste and their implementation in practice state that recycling courts and medical institutions are obliged to collect medical waste from natural persons and to take care of it in the prescribed manner. And that's where we get the problem. One is the law on paper, the other is the rules in practice. There are a lot of complaints from people with diabetes that their medical waste has not been received either in recycling yards or in health institutions. And a lot of these complaints come from the Zagreb area. From one home of health, they thus received an answer that waste management is not free, and therefore they provide waste exclusively in their own infirmary. What does diabetics need and what do they want? They want rules to be respected in practice. So they want the law not to be a dead letter on paper. In this context, it is necessary to provide funding of half a million kuna for medical waste tanks, and a disposal of medical waste where people with diabetes can uninterruptedly put their waste away by the day-to-day consumers of the aid mentioned. Unfortunately, no funds have been found in the budget for this, but I hope that we may again be able to enable joint pressure here to be a problem that is not only a problem for people with diabetes, but indirectly because it is a medical waste problem for all of us. Do we want him around in the absence of the possibility of taking care of the road, the streets, the parks? Is that a solution? Will the citizens come to that? What I'm going to say is that finally the insulin pumps are put on HZZO's help list. That's what I asked Minister Berosha about, and I got a satisfactory answer that it's going this year. So it's possible that things can get started for the better. I hope that these two requests around the glucagon without a needle and about medical waste will also be respected. There's a lot of problems that people with diabetes face. It should certainly work on education especially of teaching staff working with children in kindergartens and schools, providing assistants in kindergarten, of course not only children with diabetes but also other children who have a recommendation for inclusion in regular groups. Problems in interpreting laws and regulations should be addressed, especially for children with diabetes and their families. to the achievement of equal rights of children with diabetes. When enrolling children with diabetes in kindergartens and some high schools, there are problems because such children do not want to receive. Gestational diabetes should be educated in pregnant women, especially since each 7 women have gestational diabetes, and education is very weak. It is also necessary to ensure that glucagon is included in the protocol for primary and secondary schools and the writing of kindergarten protocols, so that people who work with children can act at the moment of crisis. Other things that our diabetics need to really improve the quality of their lives I will talk about in an individual debate. So far, I'm going to say that I'd be happy to see a glucagon without a needle appear on the HZZO list and solve the problem of medical waste, so we don't just have a declarative day, but we're actually fighting for the rights of diabetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95468	Thank you, thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95469	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We all agree that health, especially diabetes, is not a political or secular issue, so I hope that this committee proposal will come across unanimous support during the vote. I've already said that I'm an endocrinologist, I'm a member of the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Metabolism Diseases, and here at the initiative of our society the president of this society. Rahelić sent me a memo that I then sent to our Committee on Health and Social Policy in procedure, and we unanimously supported it, and here we are now talking about a proposal to declare the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease on May 14th, so twice a year would mark Sugar disease Day, you know that 14.11. we mark World Sugar Day. Of course, it's not about declarative marking, but about the fact that it's really about health and illness, especially about prevention and the more quality treatment every day, and that as a society and as a state, we provide conditions for our citizens, or our patients, that everything we talk about on all those days is that they have access every day. Now we're in the covida-19 pandemic, but we've been talking about the pandemic of diabetes for a very long time, huge numbers year by year, projections for the coming years are getting bigger and bigger, so we're really talking about the pandemic of diabetes. Today is World Fat Day, and we also need to talk about the pandemic of thickness. The thickness, of course, is one of the risk factors for the development of diabetes, so that's what we need to talk about. It is important to increase the awareness of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens that diabetes can really make everyone sick, but by preventing, early detection and timely treatment, we increase the quality of life of patients, reduce the production of complications of diabetes and actually prolong the lives of the sick. However, in addition to us healthcare professionals, administrations and society as a whole, citizens and patients should be actively involved in the care of health. The cost of declaring this Croatian day of diabetes in the budget of the Republic of Croatia will not be directly, so here again I hope it will all be unanimous. I have already praised our chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which is indeed supported by our members, organized by different meetings between us and the thematic session, so in January 27.1.2021 thematic session entitled “Sugar disease in Croatia before and during the covida-19 epidemic, where we are now?”, so we also had an important session of 25.11.2021 how to live normally with diabetes, the representatives of the profession were involved, so from the clinic Vuk Vrhovac and also the president of the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Metabolism Diseases, and from the Croatian Association, Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations, from the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters, of course from the Ministry of Health, HZZO, the medical chamber, the Institute of Public Health of the Croatian Medical Association, etc. and we also had a thematic session dedicated to decubitus, which among other things affects people with diabetes. Of course, we will continue to convene thematic sessions on different topics in the field of health and social care, including this declaration of the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease, but as I mentioned in the replica of the Committee president, I will also talk a little bit more about the parliamentary resolution on diabetes which really deserves to be renewed because it was declared 2011. What are the facts regarding the management of our diabetes patients? Of course, there is an important role for a family doctor who is unfortunately missing, but also a diabetic in the Republic, there are only 160 of us. It is also insufficient for nurses, especially educators only 100 in the Republic of Croatia and should actually be our goal, and it has also set as some future goal, or strategy, the National Commission for the Strategy for Treatment of Diabetes headed by our colleague, Professor. It is said that each county center has a daily hospital, two diabetics at least, one educator sister, one nutritionist, of course we also talk about the outcome of the treatment, we will also talk more about it and insist on monitoring the outcomes of the treatment and on diabetes. So here's as a diabetic duty to me a little here's a few words about diabetes itself, which is what it really is? Thus, a chronic metabolic disease resulting from the inability of the body to produce or use insulin. I already said there's a big connection to the fat. Here we are today marking World Fat Day, the motto is “We All Need to Get Involved”. Unfortunately, we are at the top of the number of overweight persons 65% of Croats have excessive body weight or thickness, so Croatia and Malta are bad in Europe. 16.3. is marked Croatian Day of Enlightenment and we will also talk about it on that day. Sugar disease is a serious public health problem in Croatia. It is as we heard the third cause of mortality in Croatia with 7.8%. According to CEZIH's data or register over 310,000 is the number of people registered, however, since over 40% of people have no diagnosed diabetes or do not know that they have a diagnosis of projections are that in fact 534, even slightly more people have diabetes in Croatia. 1 out of 11 adults has diabetes 90% Type 2. Good regulation of glycaemia despite all our efforts, there are only 40% of patients. Common complications of cardiovascular 1 out of 2 patients, eye 1 out of 7 patients, neuropathy 1 out of 6 patients, renal complications 1 out of 10 patients and complications on feet 1 out of 18 patients. There is a major problem with cardiovascular disease, and it is precisely these diseases that can be prevented by acting on risk factors such as smoking, unhealthy diet, obesity, physical inactivity, high blood pressure, diabetes and hyperlipidaemia, hyperlipidaemia. World estimates suggest that over 463 million people aged 20 to 79 years live with diabetes. By 2045, it is projected to be 700 million. Among just over 4 million people who die annually because of diabetes each other is under 60 years old. At the world level, health care costs related to diabetes amount to $759 billion, with 59 million people aged 20 to 79 in Europe. Treatment costs care for diabetes are 161 billion dollars a year, and 465,900 people die annually from its consequences. What are the economic effects of diabetes in Croatia? According to the 2016 calculations, 4.6 billion kuna or 19.8% of your total budget are spent on the treatment of HZZO diabetes. The cost of treatment complications are represented in the largest proportion of 88.1% of total costs. The cost of basic treatment at all levels of healthcare is 1.3% of the total cost. The cost of medicines 8.1%, but for aiding 2.5% of total costs. According to the Crodiab Register in 2018, 97,000 people with diabetes were 31.83 well, as well as well regulated, so HBA1C below 6.5%, 33% of border regulated, 6.5% to 7.5% HBA1C, and 34 almost 35% of poorly regulated glycaemic means HBA1C over 7.5%, and we really need to be concerned about it and see where things don't work out. A few words about the psychosocial effects of diabetes. A large study of Down2 was conducted involving 15,000 respondents from 17 countries and where the results were that 19% of people with diabetes felt discriminated over their health conditions, 37% of family members felt frustrated because they did not know how best to help their family members with diabetes, and 45% of people with diabetes experience anxiety because of their illness. Unfortunately, the pandemic has further deepened all these psychosocial changes or damage to the mental health of all of us, and, of course, the person with diabetes and due to the more difficult availability of care for diabetes patients, but I also say because of these problems that I have caused you. The pandemic itself has led to 62% of the patients in the last year not having one or no diabetes-related examinations, 68% of those in patients having 1 or no control HBA1C in the year and less than 20% of those in type 2 diabetes have regular self-control. So these are all the problems that most of course we who are waist are struggling with, but on that We must all imagine together and see what we can fix. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95470	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, he will now speak to a respected representative, Renata Sablak Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95471	Thank you, Vice President. The secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, is a diabetes, and will continue to be one of the world's leading public health problems and so on in the Republic of Croatia. A steady increase in the number of patients is therefore necessary to continuously highlight the importance of prevention, education and early detection. According to the 2021 International Diabetic Federation in the world, diabetes suffers from 53 million people and between 20 and 79 years of age. And the figure is estimated to grow to 643 million by 2030. In Europe, diabetes suffers from 61 million adults. 1 out of 10 adults aged 20 to 79 have diabetes in the world. 1 out of 2 people with diabetes remain undiagnosed, so each other. 3/4 people with diabetes are working age. 1 out of 5 people with diabetes are over 65 years old. 541 million adults in the world have abnormal glucose tolerance and are at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes. This is a serious pandemic problem. Every 5 seconds, one person dies of diabetes. According to CroDiab's register in the Republic of Croatia, 310.213 people with diagnosed diabetes are registered, and since about 40% of people with diabetes have not been diagnosed with diabetes, it is assumed that the total number of patients is over 500,000, the colleague said exactly 532,000, somehow. In view of these pandemic levels of diabetes, and the fact that more than 40% of patients still do not know that they have a disease it is important to raise the awareness of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens more frequently that diabetes can make everyone sick. By declaring this Croatian day of diabetes on May 14th we want to raise awareness in this great public health world, not only in the world, but also in the Republic of Croatia. This is an opportunity for us to, with the World Sugar Day marking each year on 14 November, but also on a number of other activities, public health actions, as well as public health education campaigns that remind the public of the frequency of diabetes, and the importance of prevention, early detection of diabetes, its timely treatment and prevention and delay of chronic complications. HS, more specifically, the Health and Social Policy Committee has been involved for many years in activities aimed at curbing this silent modern age killer, starting with the adoption of a resolution on diabetes that was adopted in the HS in 2011, and we hope to have the opportunity to adopt a new resolution in this year, the National Health Protection Programme for people with diabetes 2015 and 2020, organised by blood sugar measurement actions, then thematic sessions and round tables. It would just go back a second to the National Health Programme of People with Diabetes Diseases, so in 2020, this national programme was meant to be presented to us, we heard from a colleague, a colleague named Maric, who, who was just dealing with this particular branch of medicine that still some of the items from that national programme were not formed until the end of the day hospital by county to get a review of what was done, which was not done, but also so that we could before, before, it would be our turn to have the National Health Programme come in front of us, meaning in '22. We're a year, 2. It's about time we had him in front of us again. So now we have before us a proposal to declare May 14th the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease, which was referred to in the procedure by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and in order to give further importance to this topic twice a year, given that the World Day of Sugar Disease is marked on 14.11. every year. So our Social Democrats Club will support, support this proposal, and I'd just go back to the parts that might have stayed so semi-declarated, so it would point to some, some facts. So, we said that type-2 diabetes has about 92% of patients with diabetes, type-17%, and these other types of them 1% in the Republic of Croatia, and according to HZJZ in 2020, 4.479 pregnant women with diabetes were registered, which is 12.56% of pregnant women, and this is indicated by colleague Selak Rasudic. I think this is a significant number and that all pregnant women must be warned about this problem. Diabetes is the leading cause of death in 8.2% of total deaths, and we are on 3rd place leading causes of death in 2020. After ischemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease. The number of people diagnosed with diabetes in recent years has increased and on average is 3.7% a year, and the number of new patients has ranged from 30,000 to 40,000 a year, also worrying figures. HZZO has allocated more than 450 million kuna to medicines, treatment of diabetes, and this is when compared to consumption 14 years ago. HZZO has singled out 200 million kunas, which means that in the last 10 years, financial resources have doubled. The consumption of medicines from year to year is increasing, on the one hand, due to the introduction of new medicines and their combinations in therapy, and on the other, due to better and faster diagnostics, as well as the resulting significant increase in the number of patients. She'd also say something else, so the diabetes is the leading cause of mortality in '19. was 7.8% of the deceased. As far as diabetes and covid are concerned, we've said it many times, but here I'm going to use it and repeat it again. People with diabetes are at increased risk of severe forms of covid. Published studies and data suggest that diabetes is associated with an increased risk of severe disease and higher mortality in covid patients. The HZJZ data also talk about the lack of response of people with diabetes to vaccines against covids by 1.9.2021.g. Only 60% of people with diabetes have been completely vaccinated against covid. Data are very worrying that people with diabetes have 2.4 times the risk of developing a severe disease and 1.5 to 3 times the mortality in the case of covida-19 infection than those not suffering from diabetes. So I'd end up with one warning, if you haven't been vaccinated, and you have diabetes, you're being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95472	The next club of representatives will be that of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95473	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I see that the debate started in dealing with the consequences of diabetes, that it started in the cost-effectiveness part as the resulting resulting condition of diabetes in our society should talk a lot more and talk constantly about prevention of diabetes, healthy diet, healthy life, movement, physical activity. Unfortunately, we are aware that there is less and less, that we and our children sit too much, that we do too little physical work, that we have too little physical activity. And it's a hot app on your phone that shows you more than 10,000 steps a day, it's one of the best things for diabetics you can have on your cell phone. So, esteemed in my personal name and on behalf of the representatives of the HNS and HSU Club and the independents, I welcome the proposal to declare itself on May 14th as the World Sugar Disease Day, which we mark on November 14th, would be another contribution to the fight against this insidious disease, to talk about it, to deal with its prevention, early diagnosis of diabetes and successful treatment. To fantasize about total healing is very difficult still, perhaps the pharmacology industry will find a solution to having complete healing, but it is very, very difficult to talk about at this point, although technologically everything is progressing and every day we have new preparations and new technical and technological devices that we can solve. Diabetes or folk diabetes is a silent killer of the consequences that one person or more than 4 million people die in the world every 5,6,7 or 8 seconds. In Croatia, 310.212 people are registered with diabetes, and it is estimated that this number is about 535,000 people because almost one of the two people does not know that they suffer from diabetes, of course we are talking about 90% of type B disease. When a person is left to high sugar whose symptoms are constant thirst, rapid visual impairment, chronic fatigue, frequent urination, constant hunger, sweating and weight loss risks severe and life-threatening incurable situations and severe disability, as well as addiction to other people's help and care. The result of the destructive effect of sugar on the human organism is a heart attack, kidney failure, blindness, amputation of limbs individually or cumulatively. In the Republic of Croatia, 20% of the health budget is spent on the treatment of diabetes or complications caused by diabetes, or around 6 billion kuna. Of these, 88% refer to the treatment of complications or the result of unfair treatment. 8% of the cost of diabetes treatment refers to medicines used to treat diabetes and about 5% for technical and orthopaedic aids. So, in the interest of society and people, individual early detection of the occurrence of increased blood sugar levels, serious understanding and facts, the setting up of valid therapy, adherence to therapy, regular self-control and medical control, the continuation of regular quality of life. In fact, the prevention of those terribly difficult complications that happen when people leave. Unfortunately, in Croatia, among all registered patients, 53% achieve treatment goals. That's the quiet killer people get because our lizard, our sugar-degrader factory, doesn't make enough insulin. High sugar causes may be genetic, excessive introduction of carbohydrates into the body, irregular and unquality diet, insufficient physical activities, obesity and certainly one of the most significant ways of life, or subject to stress or stress exposure. It's interesting that when we're exposed to stress then the lizard would do the most work as well as the inflammatory processes in the organism, and she's canceling our obedience and strike. Fortunately, the progress of technology, technical aids and pharmacological preparations enables almost normal life for patients with diabetes, with the prerequisite for life-long use of therapy. That happiness did not have generations before us when acidic white wine was prescribed as therapy, then the Zagori were indeed in advantage. It also has a significant impact on the production and treatment of diabetes, so the Adriatic County and the City of Zagreb record the lowest incidence of diabetes. I've personally been in love with diabetes for 20 years, and I personally think that the trigger in 2001 was extremely psychophysical efforts and high stress. I worked intensively on human fates in three major bankruptcys, at the same time as their representative and ended up with 27 sugars which in the weaker, in the hospital, which in the weaker organism could cause the body to collapse. I've had all the symptoms I've given before, but I've ignored them. So much for my and our seriousness. Fortunately, in those seven days of hospital treatment, I faced myself and realized that I was a slave with a mistake. Rigid, impact therapy on my happiness, the lizard worked, and with the help of the pills, I had a good 15-year period when my doctors prescribed the Insulin, so it is today. It's important in this story not to be a slave to the disease, it's important to take it seriously, but not to be a machine and train the endurance of the body at too low levels of sugar because 3 times in 20 years I've been on the verge of falling into hypoglycaemia and no one wants to experience that feeling. It is important to eat a little and 5 meals a day of various foods without 5 white products bread, sugar, salt, fat, pasta and not after 6 hours in the evening and certainly to take more than 10,000 steps or physical activities during the day. After all, this is what doctors recommend for everyone for quality and healthy life, as well as prevention and many other diseases. This doesn't eat after 6:00 a.m., we're all having a hard time falling and maybe we should invent a refrigerator with a time lock on which other family members would have, know the code, and not us, here's a little funny but it's not to throw away as a suggestion. What I think society should do more is public campaigns to get to know the consequences of diabetes, frequent level measurement actions throughout the territory of Croatia, but also emissions sponsored by the Ministry of Health about all the characteristics of diabetes, and especially about the terrible consequences of the disease for the human organism. And we sweets have to talk about our experiences because if only our own are insignificant and none of them benefit except ourselves, but we can't be boring because then we can't, and we can't, we can't choke with our own disease, with another's disease. The conclusion of the HNS and HSU and independent representatives club supports this proposal for a decision to declare the 14 May Croatian Day of Sugar Disease because it is an important contribution to prevention, education, treatment and public awareness of the problems and consequences of diabetes. Unfortunately, diabetes can cause anyone to suffer, but by preventing, early detection and timely treatment, we can increase the quality of the lives of the sick and extend their lifetime and ultimately reduce the black numbers of this major public health problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95474	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95475	The esteemed chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, has been told a lot about diabetes, so the most significant, one of the most significant, challenging public health problems in the world. 10% of the adult population in Europe is estimated to be suffering from diabetes at this time. We have two types, Type 1 that are obtained in youth, in childhood it makes only 5% of the patients and that's the type that's only been treated with insulin and that up to 100 years ago actually led to a short and fast death until we invented insulin as such and so far it's not possible to influence it differently. It is caused by genetic factors and has the same incidence through the population. But the much bigger public health problem that makes diabetes 2 is something that we can influence. First of all, for reasons that even 95% of those who suffer from diabetes suffer exactly from Type 2 diabetes. It's diabetes that, which is the type of diabetes that we actually call a lifestyle disease because it can be prevented first of all by physical activity and by maintaining good weight. Thus, it is directly caused by motion and obesity, therefore increased body weight. Otherwise, it is currently estimated according to the national programme data that in the Republic of Croatia about 10% of the total cost of treating all diseases is to treat diabetes and complications such as heart attacks, strokes, kidney failure, blindness, etc. And so Type 1 diabetes is the main task of the public health system to ensure that all children, all young, all those who suffer from this type of disease have available quality insulin. But with Type 2, the public health system's tasks are actually to work on prevention. So, first of all, to prevent and curb the pandemic of obesity through promoting healthy lifestyles, physical activities and healthy nutrition. So, preventing the very development of Type 2 diabetes should actually be a key step and a key public health goal when we're even talking about diabetes because what we're doing right now really costs us a lot both in money and in the health of our citizens. So let's see how we stand in Croatia. The national health care programme for people with diabetes that the note does not have at all because it was valid for the period 2015 to 2020 was preceded by a SWOT analysis which, as a weakness of the system, led to an unequal availability of care, partially insufficient education of family medicine doctors, but also the fact that the severity of care is when type 2 diabetes occurs at secondary and tertiary so-called hospital level. With regard to the implementation reports of the national programme available on HZJZ sites, it is evident that only 50% of the points in the activity plan have been met, with the key point of adoption of guidelines for the organisation of healthcare, with the definition of the level of care and powers under the system not being met at all. Combating obesity and insufficient physical activity more or less successful water and much more developed countries than we are and this problem is certainly complex. But the ministry’s lack of definition of the level of concern and authority in treating such a problem and such an epidemiologically important disease is really unacceptable. To begin with, it should be made clear that Croatia is literally the first to reach its adults in Europe by the percentage of citizens who are overweight. 66% of Croatian citizens and citizens have overweight, which is the first predisposition to develop type 2 diabetes. What is even more worrying is the fact that unfortunately we are at the top and when there is excessive weight of children, as many as 35% of children in Croatia have excessive weight, so there are also records in Europe. And right there there is room for preventive action, primarily through educational education institutions, through education of children and through parental education, but also through concrete actions, so through the introduction of green public procurement to schools that children eat healthy, local, domestic, but in addition, we need to reduce the availability of unhealthy food and unhealthy drinks in our schools. This is something Europe has been doing since the beginning of 2000, so France has banned the so-called so-called Wedding machines, machines with snacks in their schools. Most EU countries insist that only fruits, vegetables and healthy snacks should be given in such machines, or that all juices other than water and possibly 100% of the natural squeezed juices are completely prohibited in their schools. I brought an example so our kids here at my school can buy Coca-Cola whenever they want, from my high school friend as soon as she gets out of school she has a drink machine, so in half a liter of Coca-Cola that our kids can buy on machines you drink this much sugar. So it's just an example to make it clear what our kids are bringing in and they can bring it through the educational cycle that they're in every day. So, as a society, we need to do it much more actively and clearly and send clearer and unequivocal messages. So, you can't tell the kids that Coca-cola is harmful, and at the same time in the school cafeteria to offer Coca-Cola, so these are double messages and I'm telling you as a psychiatrist that it's not only not effective but it's dangerous and harmful. So, our national programme should be re-emerged in many other health matters in EU countries, we can start from our first Slovenian neighbours where the fight against type 2 diabetes is based on the empowerment of the local community in implementing preventive programmes, in significant co-financing of sports activities, in nutrition education, and most importantly, and what we do not do continuously, is empowering primary health care doctors because they are key factors and key actors in treating this disease, which, in its basis, is not pharmacological in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Treatment of type 2 diabetes must primarily be a change in lifestyle. So when you develop type 2 diabetes, the battle is somehow already lost. In addition, the vast majority of patients with diabetes are treated within the hospital system, which is completely unsustainable and actually deepens inequality in the availability of care, not all people live near hospitals. On the other hand, there is also an effective strategy for prevention as well as for care, so we have neither one nor the other, and at the same time many rich countries, so I am sure that my colleague Maric can confirm, from England, our list of medicines approved by HZJZ because there are far more expensive medicines than they use. What's this about? So in Croatia, we have very low human insulins that are equally effective for type 2 diabetes, and multiple times cheaper than so-called. A lot of more expensive insulin analogues that are found on lists that no one checks how they are treated, so there is no strict control of the effect of antidiabetic therapy, many patients take it according to their own opinion, costs accumulate, side effects are accumulated, and all without legal medical advice would say medically. Our strategy for the treatment of diabetes is based on shutting down in the most expensive way possible. Otherwise, it is appropriate here today to mention Frederick Bantinga is the man who first produced insulin and thus saved millions of children with type 1 diabetes from certain death. He sold his insulin extraction patent for a symbolic dollar, because he believed deeply that insulin belonged to everyone, not only to those who can afford it. However, today, unfortunately, although it is a drug that has been on the market for 100 years, we have been witnessing a dizzy increase in the price of insulin. And when we look at this story from the beginning to the end, so from this glass of sugar that our children can get inside or in the county of their schools, to our diabetics using super expensive, and no more effective insulin paid by all the citizens of this country, I can't ask whose benefit is the Republic of Croatia, the benefit of its citizens, the benefit of those who have diabetes or the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry? As clearly as the Green-Left Block Club, we will support being symbolically marked this day, but with the skepticism that it will all come down to a few balloons in the Flower Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95476	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95477	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a decision to declare May 14th on the Croatian day of diabetes. Of course, by declaring the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease, we will not solve this big problem, as has not been solved by the World Day of Diabetes, but by declaring on May 14th the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease, we would be alerted every year to this major public health problem in our country, of course, and throughout the world that can be reduced by prevention, education and raising awareness of citizens, health professionals, as well as society as a whole. This would give additional importance to this topic twice a year to mark the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease on May 14th, as well as the World Sugar Day on November 14th, which is marked throughout the world. A series of data we have heard today on diabetes is repeated, but that is exactly what the public needs to know, and that is what the disease means as a public health problem, but also as a socioeconomic problem. Given the pandemic proportions of diabetes, and the fact that more than 40% of patients do not yet know that they have a disease or have a diagnosis or a certain treatment, it is very important that they raise the awareness of all our fellow citizens, fellow citizens and citizens that diabetes can make everyone sick. By preventing, early detection, and timely treatment, we increase the quality of the patient's life, but we also extend the life of the sick. It is in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. 310.212 people with diabetes were registered, and according to studies carried out, only 60% of patients were diagnosed and treatment started, however the total number of patients was assumed to be greater than half a million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. Sugar disease is the third leading cause of death with a share of almost 8% in 2019, unfortunately this data according to knowledge is growing. Diabetes is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, blindness, and limb amputation. The complications greatly reduce the quality of life, while the concomitant treatment of complications seems to mention the largest share in the cost of treatment for diabetes. Marking the Croatian day of diabetes is one of the contributions to improving health, prevention, early detection and treatment of diabetes and its complications, as well as raising the quality and length of all of us, especially the younger ones we mentioned today. Sugar disease is called a global epidemic because the number of people in the world has grown to levels that were unimaginable just 10 years ago. The biggest reasons for this, for this phenomenon are mentioned today, and this is actually a change in the lifestyle that marks the way, diet, or increased intake of high-calorie food and reduced physical activity. World estimates indicate that some 463 million people aged 20 to 79 years. Lives with diabetes, even half of the patients have no diagnosis and does not receive any treatment. Among them, just over 4 million people die annually because of diabetes, and each other is younger than 60 years old. At the world level, the cost of health care related to diabetes is $759 billion. In Europe, diabetes suffers from 59 million people aged 20 to 79 years, and the cost of treatment and care for diabetes is 161 billion US dollars a year. According to data we have already heard from CroDiab's sugar register in Croatia in 2020. There were 310.212 people, the number is increasing year by year, and given that only 60% of the patients have been diagnosed, it is assumed that with the proportion of those who do not have a diagnosis of the number of patients in Croatia as I said 500,000. It is also worth saying that diabetes is the third leading cause of death with a share of almost 8%. As said here in this session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which has been active for a number of years on this issue, discussed at two sessions, a session in January and a session in November 2021. right on the subject of diabetes. These sessions exchanged all relevant data on diabetes, and suggested how to contribute to raising awareness of this severe chronic disease, how to improve the early detection prevention system, and how to monitor the outcome of diabetes treatment. A significant, significant increase in the cost of medicines and the treatment of diabetes, as well as the treatment of complications caused by diabetes, suggests precisely the importance of preventing early detection of this disease. Sugar disease increases the frequency of cardiovascular diseases, the amputation of the progenitors, but also the cartilage, and kidney disease, and of course all of this has an impact on the quality of life, but also on the length of life. At committee meetings, it was also concluded in order to provide adequate care for diabetes patients that regional diabetic centres need to be addressed in terms of lack of diabetes, nurses, educators, nutritionists, and that regional diabetic centres should be strengthened in order to ensure equal, equal care, equal quality of health care for patients in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The Health Committee right at its meetings for a number of years points to the problems caused by this silent modern age killer, starting with the adoption of the Resolution on Sugar Disease adopted in 2011 and the adoption of the National Health Protection Programme for people with diabetes 2015 to 2020. Of course, it has been repeated on all the Committees on Health and Social Care that, in order to have a positive effect in strengthening the awareness of diabetes, there is also a renewal of the parliamentary resolution on diabetes, and support for the new national programme, the new 5-year National Programme for the Protection of People with Diabetes. In view of all of the above, the importance of this issue of the HDZ Representatives Club absolutely supports the proposal to declare itself on 14 May the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95478	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will now speak the esteemed representative Davor Dretar, please. ... Free speech will be when we finish the point, of course, as always. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95479	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman. We have absolutely nothing to say, The House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will support the initiative to declare itself on May 14th the Croatian Day of Combating Diabetes. The data both colleagues and colleagues have provided here in the debates so far are truly fragrant. 5 hundred 37 million people worldwide suffer from diabetes, 61 million in Europe, and the total number of diabetes patients in Croatia is estimated to be more than 5 hundred thousand. So, every seventh person if we take data from the last census in Croatia has diabetes, or some form of it. The third is the cause of mortality in Croatia, therefore a serious and worrying situation, so I would once again join all of the previous club representatives who talked about the fact that prevention is one very important thing. Unfortunately, I'm going to introduce you to a sad state where consciousness is primarily our children's youngest, awareness of the harmfulness of excessive sugar in the diet, primarily of course through sweetened sodas, and of course various kinds of sweets. He spoke to a dear lady who is a production tech in the largest Croatian shipping company and unfortunately told me that they have been systematically reducing the amount of cocoa in their products for several years and increasing the amount of sugar. Why? Because children simply don't want to buy their products because they're not cute enough, there's too much cocoa and they're bitter, and outside the world's big brands in the production of these chocolates, sweets and, of course, they're mostly selling us extremely unquality goods full of sugar, artificial sweeteners, etc. etc. Unfortunately, prevention from the earliest age since kindergarten, preschool, and then, of course, school should be constant, and I believe that there is every lip that could be invested as a state worth it. You should consider moving self-service appliances from school institutions as a matter of fact. They should certainly be removed, which should allow for the sale of what we can call products from a healthy diet group. The fact is, we've all seen this amazing amount of sugar in one single glass. It's actually in one bottle of soda. It's too much of course. We don't even have a nation of too healthy eating habits. Well, I'm on my own. I've got to admit, I'm on my own. We don't move well, of course, our food is often filled with not only sugar, but other unhealthy nutrients, and then, unfortunately, it all turns out the way it turns out. I would remind myself once again that we support May 14th as the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease, but we think that we should fight this silent killer, the third one as a cause of mortality in Croatia every day with even more support from both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government and the implementation of concrete actions, and this is not only to gather ourselves together on city squares every 14 May, so we take some shirts to ourselves and thus try to sensitise the public, but, of course, to try to implement a wider social action in which we will primarily try to explain that excessive amounts of sugar are extremely bad for their health, and what perhaps rarely is created by addiction. So the receptors in our brain, the receptors for sweets are extremely intense and our experience, i.e. the sense of pleasure in eating sweet after some research, is also equal to the consumption of certain types of opiates. That's certainly what they need to be warned about. The House Movement MPs' club fully supports this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95480	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95481	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. No one is against accepting this proposal, but I see that the Croatian Parliament will support it. So here's let me suggest something further on behalf of the CENATR party and the GLAS party. In fact, since the Croatian Parliament has decided to declare one day a year on which we will mark all the problems arising from this monster and this world's actually in some way pandemics might be good for the Croatian Parliament to take on additional obligations through its parent board. It might not be a bad thing to mark that day or before it is marked by the competent Committee on Health collects and analyzes the data on how the prevention system works, how the system of diagnostics and therapy works, how diabetics are integrated into the life of healthy people in society, how much we have done on the agenda of education how different public sectors, such as kindergartens, schools, and other institutions, what to do when someone who is dealing with this disease enters those stages of their hypo or above. And in the same way that we will oblige the RES to provide the relevant parliamentary committee with all the necessary information in due time for such an analysis. In fact, it is not for anyone to say that as a colleague before me said, this day is marked only by several balloons in one of the main squares, but it is necessary for the Croatian Parliament to take a greater role in creating public policies in order to better protect those who suffer from diabetes. So in this direction, I propose to the resolution committee who has also proposed and encouraged this initiative, that I come up with a concrete plan, which the relevant parliamentary committee on this issue will do, when it will ask the government, when it will ask HZZ, but also others to simply tell us what the current situation is and what it is thought to do to improve the conditions of those who suffer from this disorder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95482	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be those of the Croatian sovereigns, and the respected representative Željko Sacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95483	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, we will, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, in particular, support this initiative on our own behalf absolutely. And we had the opportunity today to fully get to know everyone who hasn't so far knew the terrible and devastating consequences of this, this grave disease, the insidious one that we had the opportunity to hear even the estimates of 400 to 500 thousand people in Croatia struggled with it. Some people don't even know. 300,000 people are registered, others neglect. Anyone who's sick has his own personal experiences. The most important thing is to recognize. Mr. Silvano Hrelja made this remarkable and unsurpassed description of how the disease had progressed, what caused it, how it was treated. So the conclusion is that once we diagnose with the help of our doctors, we can continue to live in a special regimen, if it's not too late with high doses. Now this special regime requires a great deal of effort, not only for our families but also for professional help, we need to change our habits, primarily for nutrition and bring things into one normal style and way. I, as a Croatian defender, can say, and I am aware that many of my dear friends, fellow warlords, suffer from this disease. Some have not even asked the doctor for help because they believe that they can handle a certain consultation of certain access information on how this disease is being treated. I invite them all, especially the Ministry of Croatian Defence and all the district offices to re-launch the campaign to ensure that our people, not diminishing the importance and value of all other categories of our society, but now I am talking to the Croatian defenders to carry out these checks in the final and if they go to the target in person today only on this topic, it costs about 40-50 kuna and will immediately know what kind of situation they are in. And after that, they'll know what to do, who to turn to. Our society, the Croatian Society for Prevention of Diabetic Diseases, is taking good measures. What is important to us that we are in this treatment program, yes, that we are lost in this way and in such an affordable way by nutritionists and all professional people in this way, if we are not quite concentrated then we have strayed from these rules, and basically the fact that when someone enters that type 2 diabetes zone with one tablet does not have to drink two and can actually stay on that one tablet with no problems, of course respecting the recommendations of this doctor which and how to continue. So what I'd like to point out again is that everyone who has these symptoms is very simple. For example, we could talk from our own experience, if you get a daily addiction to eating sweet, chocolates, cookies, if you want to eat half a box of cookies that I've done in my life, it's a sure sign that you're already in the disease zone. If you like chocolates and sweets as if you've never eaten them in your life, then if that's a reliable sign, if you're thirsty, dry mouth, and that's a sign, if you're sleeping, it's not the laziness of the care you're sick. Now, everything else is in your hand, don't ignore it, and once the lizard stops working, I can be far, far bigger problems than we can possibly assume, but let's walk, let's walk, let's stop, let's prevent. We can gradually if we arrive on time, we can gradually actually reduce these values, but we must not ignore it, and if the crown reaches you, you are at greater risk because the medicines treated by the patient or infected by the crown themselves raise these sugars, and that is why the problem. To the existing high levels of sugar you get medicines that lift it even more, and then there is difficulty. So we had, so we had this and unfortunately some complicated and some cases with fatalities. And probably God forbid it's so that this Coronal and Viral disease is becoming less and less burdensome as the weather is coming to us, and that we can only devote ourselves to our own, own diabetes problems, not even something more difficult. So the Croatian defenders go get your blood out, control yourself, if you are at an early stage or at an already critical stage, everything is treatable is not over, but if you do nothing can be fatal. You are too valuable for us, we need you, you need your families, you need children, you need this society to see how the situation is, the wars are around us, it's very serious, we're going to need you all and we're going to need you for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95484	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95485	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. As a diabetic, I could talk for hours about diabetes, but of course I've been limited for five minutes, so I'm just going to go on for a little while on what my colleague Sacic was saying. So, what's the point of prevention, early detection of disease? So, the point is that you don't get into a phase when you have increased thirst, increased urination, fatigue, etc. and the sugar is 18.20 there will not help you, but the point of all these programs is that sugar is discovered in a phase called before diabetes, so when the values of 5.6-6.9 are on the mother-in-law, it means the diagnosis of the setting by measuring glycaemia to the mother-in-law from the laboratory and precisely these systemic examinations, public health actions are going to reveal sugar at that stage before diabetes or diabetes when you can continue or by introducing a healthier diet, physical activity perhaps with a few pills keep your disease under control. When you have diagnosed high-glycaemia diabetes, you should know that when you have been diagnosed for the last five to eight years, there is a process happening in your body where there is a weakness in your pancreas function, and there are no pills that will help you. We have thanks to God and systematic examinations of the defenders, here's fellow Sacic knows it, so I invite all citizens to respond as much as possible to public health actions that will surely be more when the pandemic freezes a little bit and responds to systematic examinations with their doctors. I'd like to share with you what kind of things we're dealing with every day with diabetes patients. When some happier times are before the pandemic, of course, we do more intensive and public health actions and education of patients through the stands, through associations of diabetes patients, we do educations and health care professionals and nurses, patronage nurses, family medicine doctor, secondary or higher medical school, and of course we also do group education of patients who come to us at the Center for Diabetes and certainly at each examination of individual examinations of patients where both sisters and doctors play a role. What are the problems before and during the pandemic? The lack of a doctor, I said there are only 160 diabetics, not enough nurses, not enough master's degree in nutrition. It is commendable of course that we continue to be enthusiastic and working for all of us. Other problems that existed before covid, so I did some research on the quality of care and access to the patient with diabetes before the first arrival of the diabetic, whether too few patients are sent, too, whether they are sent too early, too late, whether they are well processed, whether there is room for improvement. Also, the problem of imbalances between available therapy, aided by modern technologies and a small percentage of well-regulated patients. We bear witness to the lack of awareness of hospital management and other health care professionals and patients themselves about the problem of diabetes, which is our common goal of working on this all together. Furthermore, during the pandemic of diabetics, nurses were engaged in the care of covids of patients in numerous on-calls, consular examinations, reduced work capacity of departments and polyclinics even here in certain workshops and up to 75%, with us in particular in the hospital since here I am doing the same all the time there even up to 40% went further and of course the increase in waiting lists, the failure of patients to check in lockdown due to the isolation of disease fear of infection, the deterioration of the regulation of glycaemia, so using corticosteroids itself, the infection itself, more and more newly discovered people with diabetes, the deterioration of acute and chronic complications of diabetes, and the long-term consequences of covida-19 will only be seen. Furthermore, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of severe illness and higher mortality in covida-19 patients. It is important to work on vaccination and against covid, influenza and pneumococcals. We were, of course, as far as possible for patients and doctors of family medicine through A5 instructions, emails, phone consultations, Vibera, Whatsappa, different platforms in terms of modern technologies, so we managed in some way to reduce at least the number of diabetes patients that could not come to their doctor, but in any case the education of patients, the doctor of family medicine is difficult under the terms of the pandemic, there are naturally tools that we can overcome as much as possible. The use of modern aid has facilitated patient care and education, but there is no substitute for the doctor's personal arrival primarily a family doctor, or patient to our diabetics. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95486	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative, Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95487	Respectfully, you are a doctor and in fact all day long who should be committed to the day of fight against diabetes is actually committed to those who already have diabetes. And I think that it should also take special care of children, hence the ban on selling from energy drinks to candy in school facilities and school meals. Therefore, in European countries some of them are prohibited from selling bakery products in a particular circle of school facilities. So we need to know that the fight against diabetes starts with those who don't have it yet. What do you think of that as a doctor?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95488	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95489	So here is one of the tasks of the Croatian Sugar Day or World Sugar Day is prevention, so we're not just talking about those who have diabetes but also about prevention of diabetes. This is a big problem that you've naturally touched, and it's a question of early childcare, school, the issue of nutrition, and here I can say that we can all kind of contribute to it. For example, JLS, we're here a few years ago, now they've been renovated, the advice for healthy Čakovec where, I've been a diabetic, several nutritionists, and a few other colleagues we went from kindergarten to kindergarten in the town of Čakovec, we've scanned all the menus, we've changed menus, we've adjusted as much as possible, you can't shock the schoolboys now, but you can at least bring in some healthier diets, so from kindergartens, schools, and then you can work on improving your diet. There's also a question of the media, a question of advertising these unhealthy products, so there's a lot of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95490	Thank you. Dear Representative Simic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95491	... preventative checks by Croatian defenders. [[Last-on speaker]] We're saying that prevention is one of the most important things in the treatment of diabetes, but also in the prevention of all other diseases. Thanks to the initiative of Minister Medveda, Minister of Croatian Defence, 2017 In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and HZJZ, reviews of Croatian defenders have been launched. They had an extremely good result, but only in our hospital was the review of 3,000 Croatian defenders in Nasice. Unfortunately, many diseases have been found, but thus saved both the lives and the quality of life of many Croatian defenders. It should also be noted that the life of the Croatian defender is only about 50 years old. and unfortunately, 8 to 10 Croatian defenders die daily. Here is the prevention in which the diabetes was found with various other problems saved many lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95492	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95493	Thank you very much. I myself have participated in the systematic examinations of the defenders and, of course, I support all forms of various systematic examinations and, of course, our defenders. Now it's a little bit in a weaker form given the pandemic conditions, but the essence of these systematic examinations is that you see whether increased fat, whether increased glycaemic values, then with this information you do something and do, means not only then, I generally mean not only the systematic examinations of the defenders, so you come to your family doctor and then you need what you heard in the examination itself and actually adjust your diet, increase your physical activity, etc., do additional tests if you are looking for and then actually apply what is advised, so that's kind of the point of all these reviews. And when it comes to public health actions, let me just rely on what I've said before. Also, we don't make a diagnosis based on one sugar measurement in the square, one has to contact his doctor again and then take further steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95494	Thank you. Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95495	Thank you, thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would only return what you were saying at the beginning of your current debate. So it's about time for people to be more clear somewhere, a time period that comes from glucose tolerance disorders, which is what a large number of citizens have, and they don't even know they have it, until the moment these values become serious. That means above, let's say over 10. How much time has passed and how much of the system is being disrupted, I mean you've listed them before, but I'd just like to point out once more that that time is long and that our organism is being destroyed and that it's very important to measure that sugar further, so that's only if you can say it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95496	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95497	Yeah, I'll try to narrow it down for a little while. I've said it before, so about five to eight, even at about 10. The pathophysiological process occurs in the body. Of course, the later you discover diabetes, the longer this process is. The underlying problem in people who have diabetes or have predisposition, who have an excessive body mass, is even 80%. The problem is, people would be surprised, when you measure the level of insulin in your blood it is increased, why does it mean that we do not lack insulin but that insulin in type 2 cannot work because you have, have, have an intolerance glucose, intolerance God to insulin, and that is then the main problem that you reduce your body mass in time and increase physical activity. And again, I point out, the point is to detect diabetes in the early stages when these pathophysiological processes on the pancreas and cardiovascular system have not been expressed so much but rather wait until there are symptoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95498	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95499	Dear colleagues, here you are a doctor who finally deserves that story and we're talking about this in HS today, and I'll talk about it later in the speech. I worked for 16 years. in school, 14 years old. I was a high school student and I kept telling kids, my kids come out of the classroom, every little vacation, every big vacation. We were one of the biggest high school students in the region with almost no 700 students, a bunch of automatics, so chocolates, Cokes, sprites, boyfriends, wrinkles. What can we do here, we know which are the founders of elementary schools, high schools, and what can we do at this level in HS to get out of school poison because it's poison, so sugar in that amount I take it poison and we tell stories, it turns out to me, so I commend it because it's worth it, but we tell stories, and then we actually have kids that we allow to drink terribly unhealthy and eat unhealthyly, what can we do here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95500	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95501	Well, here we are, as I said several thematic sessions have already been made on the topic of diabetes. I have also announced that there is a need to renew the resolution on diabetes, we will certainly do so by ourselves who are from the profession, and then this one according to the Health Committee when some session is organised on the subject, of course we will call on different stakeholders, administration, from the Ministry of Health, Professionals, etc. and then, together among other things, install it into the resolution, and some things are written in the resolution to go on that then the action is actually extended to all the moments in society, means that there are also media that won't like boredom whether to advertise sweet drinks or, or this food that children love, and also what you said in schools. So in any case improve the diet and remove these, these are appliances where these unhealthy things can be bought. So that's the problem that's waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95502	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95503	So I'm going to ask you two questions, one as doctors, because I believe that our citizens are interested in the other as parliamentary representatives, as well as doctors. So I think the citizens are really confused about how dangerous the candy really is for children's health. Is it dangerous when a child eats a chocolate a day or are we talking about it getting threatening if he drinks 3 glasses of coke a day? I believe you'd like to explain them a little more specifically if they knew what to do. And the second question concerns these activities that I mentioned in my speeches what can we do to help Croatian diabetics? What kind of pressure should this Glucagon without a needle be on the HZZO list, is there any chance of such a thing and how there may be such a problem with the storage of medical waste that sufficient funds or the law is not respected enough that diabetics whose life is already difficult have to face it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95504	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95505	So here I go from behind, what you did to me first, this second part you asked me. Not only glucagon, but we also asked for the number of strips that are reduced to half, so it was 100 per year, and now it's 50 per year, I speak for people who have oral therapy or are therefore not on insulin therapy. We also had signatures and the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations encouraged this to sign petitions. There was also a petition for glucagon, but the administration hasn't really responded to it yet, so we'll press on as far as that part goes and not give up, of course. And as for the first part, the point of a healthy diet is moderation in food and drink. So if you eat one chocolate you won't die, but if you eat a bunch of chips every day, I don't know any cakes and I don't know what, then you have problems. So, moderation is what we also advise our diabetes patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95506	Thank you. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95507	Here, respected colleagues and respected doctors, doctors, first of all, we personally thank you, and all of your colleagues 160 you said, there are few of you who care about such a large population of sick people, but tell me if it's possible, whether or not you appear more, whether there's any possibility on this particular trail of prevention of this disease, and even later on, for certain curative programs to participate in public TV, in radios I don't know any media that would somehow not see you right now, we see a campaign against smoking, against alcohol, against not even I don't know everything, but for the very diabetes, it's kind of weaker or I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95508	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95509	So we also have radio shows and TV shows that are a little bit more concentrated when these days of diabetes, obesity etc. are being marked, today you have organized in KBC Zagreb, here are 5 to 12 prevention programs dedicated to obesity, and I said that the thickness is one of the risk factors for diabetes, so of course it should be more and we will work to get the media involved, not only to mark while these days are. So there's a lot of work anyway. It would certainly not be left unsaid, so we are not just diabetics who have to take care of diabetes patients there is an important role and a doctor of family medicine, but also of the citizens and patients themselves. It is bad when you prescribe expensive therapy for someone, and they do nothing for their health. So we must all be partners in the treatment of diabetes or other diseases. So I say the problem is layered, huge and It's about time we improved it, isn't it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95510	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95511	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner with a co-worker, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about diabetes and here I am, even in person, so if we look at how much this disease is present in society, I don't think there is any family in the nearer or further place that is not faced with the problem of diabetes, and then on the other hand, so I'm an athlete who's been living actively for the last 30 years and now I'm engaged in sports, even competitively, so I think I can talk here about the importance, prevention of which I think is very, very important. So we've heard diabetes is even a disease that has third causes of death, so in our society, which is terrible, so it shows how important and important it is to talk about it. And I'd like to publicly commend my colleague from the SDP Club to Dr.sc. Andreja Marić, who, as a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, has actually initiated it, if I understand correctly, and I believe that I am the Croatian Parliament declares May 14th the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease. And thanks to colleagues from HDZ with their SDSS partners and others who have decided to accept the proposal. And I think that this is one concrete indicator that where it's right where it matters and where it's important that we all stand side by side and finally it's the health of the citizens and the health of our youngest, our children that we're always kind of the most sensitive to. My colleague, Andreja Marić, has also talked about the resolution we have since 2011, which is old, today in 2022, and so much has happened, so much has changed, and I really encourage those who are most responsible, these are by ruling that we do what we can and we go with a comprehensive story, vision and strategy so to fight, prevention and everything else that involves reducing the consequences of diabetes. I'd like to talk specifically about two things. So, first of all, our kids in primary and secondary schools are malnourished. Dale, I've worked in the system for 16 years, I've been classmates in high school for 14 years, kids get out of your classroom, a little vacation is being put into machines by swearing, drinking co-workers and Cole, the Spritovs, so it's poison, so it's poison. Those who drink sodas that's so much sugar that it means, of course, you can't matter if you have a drink once in a while, and that's what the doctor was talking about, I'd say we always come to a book that's old and ancient whether it's important to be moderate or, well, then it's about that, but let's get back to the subject. But I think it's very important that we put pressure here in HS and get those junk out of our schools, so these machines, then the kids come out of the building physically, and they're in front of the buildings, so you don't know where the bigger problem is. So here I encourage all of us who are in any way co-responsible and in the health of our children and youngsters to make sure that our kids are healthy, healthy. The obesity is our big problem, so almost 70% of our population has excessive weight problems, and we know that from that situation come a lot of other diseases. And I'm going to talk again about prevention, what are we doing as a state to encourage recreation? What do we as a state do to encourage sport, sports? How are our programs in kindergartens, elementary school, high school? Can we hire Chinese experts more strongly, therefore, people who are there who have so much to say? And I think it's important that we make one comprehensive national program to finally give the sport the place it belongs to, and we know that every kuna invested in prevention returns hundreds of times, so hundreds of times. And I'm asking you so I'd say, I'm a athlete and I've told you my whole life competitively, it turns out that we have so much success in sports despite the system, and it doesn't work system, and I'm telling you that because I'm inside, I'm inside. So, because we as a people are talented and then individuals are extremely working and what Drazen Petrovic said is whether what talent is 10% friend, 90% is your work and then Kostelic and everyone else achieves top results, not the system. The system is often not so focused at all. Education is extremely important, we need to explain to kids in kindergartens, in primary schools that overuse of sugar is poison, that they will get sick, that they will have serious problems and that way we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95512	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95513	I agree with you as much as possible to educate children and parents, but what bothers me is the education of teachers protocols that we have in schools at all. Let's say you worked as a professor, how much do you know what to do, how to treat glucagon and what to do with a child who comes into a state of hypoglycaemia? Would you know and your colleagues know how to react? Since the number of diabetics is growing, are our teachers even familiar with how to help children with diabetes if they get into such a situation? So, I think that with this part of what all children eat, we should also work on getting teachers to know first what diet is harmful to children’s health, and another how to help a child who comes into a state of hypoglycaemia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95514	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95515	My colleague Marija Selak Rasudiæ, first of all, I would like to thank you for "screaming" today and for warning how important this medicine is to help the children primarily in the treatment of diabetes, so thank you for doing so in your personal name what you are doing. On the other hand, my classmates and now I don't know if what's changed in the last two years, maybe some of the educations have been. I kind of feel like they're not knowing the system. I'm an example of you. And that's your answer, he used to have kids in his class, I mean young people who have epilepsy, that's what your parent tells you, and then you go to the doctor and you ask what to do, so what would you say as a classroom you're left to yourself because you're interested and then explain to you what to do, and in this case. I don't know that it's systematic that there was a teacher's education, a teacher's behavior, which must have been a big problem, so it must have been a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95516	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95517	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, first of all, let me just say I did really refer this to the board, etc., but I don't think there is now my universal role I think that there is primarily our society, the Croatian Society for Diabetes and Diseases of Metabolism primarily initiator and our President Professor. Rahelić, and I am a member of society and, of course, as a parliamentary representative, I also referred this initiative to the board simply so that it doesn't turn out that I am the most responsible for it now. As far as the education itself and all of these parts you have stated, in fact, my colleague Selak Rasdić jumped in with what I was about to say, and that is this problem that was about education, and that is how to do how to approach a child who is suffering from various diseases, and among other things from diabetes. There is, of course, a problem in kindergartens, but also in schools and the question is what we discussed about staff education itself. A lot of kids with type 1 have these meterers and then parents. They do, but some don't, so we should really work on [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] education... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95518	Next replica of respected MPs Excuse me. [[Intruder Miletic: I Can Answer.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95519	Thank you, colleague Maric, you are as humble as all great people, and the smaller you are, the more you are, the more you are, the more modest and late you are, so here's thank you for your contribution. And we who somehow look at this world know that every shift always happens to some individual who makes a step, so thank you and all of you and all of you at the club and the rulings at the end of what they saw and supported it. And education, education, education I would say in everything, so the most important thing, so whatever topic you take is much cheaper and wiser to educate than to cure and put out the fire when there's trouble, I mean then you do what you have to do because then you put out the fire there's no other. But education is at the root of everything and when we as a state come up with a story of education, not only in this respect but also in a number of other topics, I am convinced that progress in every respect will be much greater, even less jumping on each other's heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95520	Now she's a respected representative of Sablar Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95521	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'd like to refer a little bit to the part where you refer to the number of hours of physical education in primary and primary and secondary schools. But she'd say something else if I thought it was a big problem of our schooling that we had shift classes. That the big problem of our schooling is that we do not have a well-organized day for a child where he will have enough physical activity, but also a quality healthy meal at the school itself before his parents return home. So I would just beg you, ask you to think in any case the predictor and this disease is one of those behaviors, and so our school system is affecting that, so if you can look back on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95522	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95523	So we know that our clinics at school are at 6, 7, 8 hours even sometimes with an extra class, it's half a day spent by our kids at school. And then it happens to put your physical health culture, not everywhere, but they put you four hours, and then the adolescence poor they say what I'm going to run there now, sweat, then they don't have the right conditions to continue with school, that you have the right conditions, so maybe you wash up or something if you prepare for teaching in any case it would be a lot easier. So I really think that our mission here which we are in the Croatian Parliament is to consider strategy and vision. So any lip that is invested in prevention, recreation into sports, in stronger physical, health culture in the education system, so you have a healthier nation. If you have a healthier nation, you'll spend less money, so we don't have to give all the money to the big farm and the pharmaceutical team, so we can do something a little bit more healthy than our grandmothers taught us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95524	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95525	Dear fellow Minister Miletic, I would like to ask you about your extracurricular activities and did you guide your students on mountains, mountaineering, and did you develop certain strategies in your school? And secondly, what interests me, so in Croatia is still available Glucagen with a needle called Glucagen Gypokit for which feedback is obtained from the field to ignore both breeders and teacher staff for acceptable reasons that everyone is actually afraid to handle the needle, and the whole protocol that it is complex. Have you had any examples, and do you resent the same from the needle?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95526	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95527	And more seriously, this is another question, so I'm going to answer him right now. So, my students used the deal themselves is in school, the thing I think normally he knows when, if he feels or if he has to go out then he has to go out to the bathroom and he's using somewhere so I personally didn't, I didn't have it with that means personally whether. As far as the school system is concerned, I say again that I think education is very important and that we need to come up with a whole system. And secondly, look, you have our neighbours of Slovenians who have 500 excursions, who have recreational paths, who have everything, and we have beautiful nature and I really hold that it's not enough for us, we can't say that it's not used because a lot of things are done whether, but it can be much, much more quality, and we can present to kids recreation and healthy life as a challenge, as something nice. They need to be interested in it so that they can deal with it and live more actively because if we leave only children they won't have a child without motivation whether to do much in life what it is quality and valuable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95528	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative of the Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95529	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues who follow us through the screen, in the Republic according to the National Register of Diabetes in 2020, 310.212 persons with diabetes were registered. The assumption is that the actual figure and much larger, i.e. the total number of patients in Croatia is 534. It should be noted that most of them, therefore, are 90% with type 2 diabetes while 10% with type 1 diabetes. While people with type 1 diabetes are relatively well supplied with insulins and other orthopaedic aid, there is plenty of room to improve their care in the overall health system of the Republic of Croatia. One such example is a recent case of glucagon in the Baqsim spray intended for first aid in case of severe hypoglycaemia. In spite of several petitions to include this glucagon on the list of HZZO medicines from those that last had over 30,000 signatures of citizens, mainly underage children with HZZO diabetes, rejected the proposal. Understandably, the price of this medicine is about 790 kuna but the psychological effect this glucagon would have in spray, for example, the educational system is immeasurable. And what we have touched in Croatia is still available glucagon with a needle called the so-called glucagon. Glucagen Gypokit, of which as we receive feedback, is particularly despised by both breeders and teachers for very acceptable reasons, is afraid to handle the needle, and the entire protocol around its application is complex. On the other hand, severe nausea and vomiting often occur with impaired children as side effects of glucagen administration. And spray in such a case would be of exceptional benefit to everyone. People with Type 2 diabetes on the other hand are those who are not well controlled enough and often have unwanted complications that present a difficult life for the sick, his family and the environment, and a great financial cost for the health system. In this classification there are also those who have prediabetes who, over time, do not recognize the growth in Type 2 diabetes. It is therefore extremely important to pay attention to a group of patients with type 2 diabetes and prediabetes. These conditions require individualised access, regular communication at the doctor’s route and monitoring the outcome of their treatment. Unfortunately, in practice, this approach is missing. Doctors do not have too much time to devote themselves to this patient with Type 2, follow their daily self - control, motivate them to keep diet logs and generally direct them to the proper taking of care of their health. Of course, a patient’s motivation about self - care is also important, but to do so requires guidance. The Covid-19 crisis certainly contributed to the general fear in this population, in rarer departures and not communication with the doctor, and lack of care about its health in general. That's why she failed her diabetes care. In addition, people with type-2 diabetes on oral therapy last year have been reduced the right to the blood glucose measuring strips from 100 to 50 pieces per year. This decision has prompted a revolution among many who really care about their health, however, there is no too much emphasis on how these individuals have the right to regular control of glycolyzed hemoglobin at the primary level in medical biochemical laboratories. This search is important to them because it detects what sugar was like in the last three months. It also serves as an excellent parameter for a general medical physician who should guide further patients according to their findings, in practice it does not work that way. In this context, it is often mentioned panels for monitoring diabetes at primary health care levels that should be monitored for patients’ treatment goals, but they are obviously not well implemented or used. We therefore believe that panels should be made as simple, efficient and targeted as possible in order to facilitate the use of the doctor himself, and individual approach, and help the patient get concrete guidance in the further management of this disease. In conclusion, for the type-2 diabetes patient himself, it is essential to understand the disease, to be informed about its consequences, and especially to work on mutual communication, the doctor. By adjusting lifestyle, timely recognition of disease, early induction of optimal therapy, and continuous education of diabetes can be put under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95530	Thank you, and there's a lot of replicas for you, so stay here, please. First respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95531	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Troscott, here's why you're Dinam's child, you've been a athlete all your life, as important as it is, so we know, now maybe colleagues are watching what Miletic's talking about now, so I'm not just talking about us, we're talking about the Croatian people, we're talking about citizens, so we want to raise awareness, sensual people to realize how important it is to practice sports, how important basic basic recreation is, and how much to forgive you to walk only half an hour a day to help yourself, so in your health and to show people that they're co-responsible for your health and that it's actually the most beautiful when you're calling someone else to live somehow, to be an example. You know, so if we invite people and be honest, then don't be a ball, if we invite people, live like this, be an example. Here's how you look at it, what can we do to make the public more sensitive to recreation and sports?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95532	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95533	This is a very good question. So in time when I was playing in Dinamo and for the Croatian national team until 18, so something we promised to do was that we popularized sports at the quarter level so that we would announce, but we came to play in parts of the town where we played small football, we invited people, we organized tournaments, we invited young people, we popularized this sport, we popularized the way of life of professional sport that is different from recreational, but we definitely went to the fact that we spent as much time out there and that the more we did sports and not only that, but we popularized Zagreb sport in general, we also worked with other clubs and sports, we hung out together, we went hiking on Slje, we went to hiking in neighbouring Slovenia, so it was kind of an international collaboration. And in that sense, I think it would be best to continue this practice like we used to do in neighborhoods to let today's kids take over.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95534	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95535	Your Honor, it's very good that my colleague opened this topic. Namely sports, sports and recreation, it is an extremely important prevention of diabetes, even when a person gets sick of it, it is extremely important to move a lot, to move a lot, and to actually consume energy so that later it does not reflect on his blood count. But I wanted to draw attention to what you said, which is that the smaller number, the number of strips that you get annually or monthly for, by, by this retirement to test sugar. [[Clip intrusion: type-2]] I mean, that's a big problem, that's a bad disease, and the question is, is this exactly the right place to cut costs? I think there's a lot more room for cutting costs in our health care than there are for patients like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95536	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95537	About the first part that matters is the sport and diet that goes with it. We had very strict programs, though, that Dinamo was an institution, so we had to watch out for what we were eating because of the energy we needed and for the training, and therefore for the way we ate, so it was very important. And about what you said, I agree, and it's not just a matter of financial expense, but it's also a matter of psychological nature because it's obvious that these tapes have helped people and that it's caused a huge amount of revolt among citizens since they've had the right to those 100 strips. And I agree that this is not the place where it should be cut, corruption should be cut, so it should be cut down on setting up jobs in state-run companies of negative selection, so all of this would lead to savings, for example, corruption in Croatia itself costs about 60 billion kuna. If we cut it, there'd be plenty of room and money for the ribbons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95538	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95539	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here's to not being inexplicable and inexplicable. As for glucagon, therefore, a preparation or hormone used to treat severe hypoglycaemia means in situations where the patient cannot take sweets etc. It is used by another person. So as far as the glucagen hypocite is concerned, here is clear that the public knows it means it is administered intramuscularly, and we of every patient or family member who receives insulin, by law he must have glucagen on him, we educate on the use of this preparation. It's about family members who are also most laymen, same as most laymen staff in kindergartens, schools, etc. But why is it better for children this Baksim than glucagon, first because of the simplicity of application, this intranasal powder, you have to put this in the muscle, and the second one is really hard to educate all the staff in kindergartens, by schools so that we will certainly as a waist, support to put on the list and this preparation of glucagons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95540	Thank you. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95541	No comment, this is an excellent replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95542	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95543	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I am very glad that you've looked back at HBA1C, which points to blood glucose regulation in the last three months, and it's important that we tell the citizens that four checks, four times, take out the blood that they're going to be working out for some other disease, that they certainly do this, and that they know what their regulation is. A colleague, Maric, according to the data I have, but I am not an expert, 7% or so is still satisfactory, but a colleague says it is 6.5 to 7.5 that the problem is already considered and needs to be treated. And thank you again for bringing this up again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95544	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95545	Thank you very much for your comment, so we are all here to learn about this topic that is increasingly present and we see that unfortunately this number is growing in Croatia, and I would not like to get into a situation of Malta which unfortunately has been declared, or were the EU countries that have been most struggling with both obesity and diabetes, and they have brought some national programmes, but I think that this thing is primarily prevention and sports and these blood extractions as a preventive method to identify certain things as soon as possible and then to control it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95546	Thank you very much. She will now speak to a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95547	Here is a colleague Marić professionally explained about a glucagon without a needle, I might add one thing that I didn’t say at first because I wanted to point out how difficult it is to have diabetes because of the daily use of medicines, which is that this medicine is not often taken, so these are exceptional circumstances regardless of the fact that it’s a set of it is still rare, and taking such a glucagon without a needle would be much simpler than what is currently available. It means you can find funds inside HZZ to really put it on his list. And I am glad that there is a consensus here that professional associations advocate the same, and I hope that then this debate today will contribute to really changing something in practice, that this administration is rushing. Another thing I'd like to point out again, of course it concerns medical waste. It's amazing to me that today we're talking about a problem of storing medical waste for people with diabetes. How is it possible, despite the rules and laws of them, that different institutions should do so from recycling yards and continue to reject them? That's very humiliating. So it's not just a question of what you really don't have with it, it's a question of one humiliation, something that's hard enough for you every day to use in a situation where you're supposed to be rejected and brought into a very unpleasant situation that you have to what, some kind of thief in the middle of the night wrap in three, four bags and put in a piece of junk or God don't put around somewhere. These are certainly not the conditions that we can agree to, these half a million kunas, in which I have put the amendment must be provided for the storage of their medical waste and ultimately it is a public health problem if we do not solve it adequately, so to the problem of all of us. What concerns me in principle when we speak, and here we have extended the topic in general to the health of our children and the health of our citizens is the difference between what is true and our own perceptions. When we think about Croatia or about the citizens of Croatia, we think about the thin Mediterranean who are in the abundance of Mediterranean nutrition, who are athletes, who had the most beautiful muscles, and like that in practice we are in a great deal of trouble and he is not aware enough. Unfortunately, when we talked about the pandemic of covida, the topic was politicized to the point that we never had a serious debate about why the number of dead in Croatia is really so large, and it may be in the best way or the most clear, but in the worst possible way, it has shown how fragile we are and what is the difference between what we think of ourselves and how we can really deal with any disease. We have seen how fragile and unprepared our health system is, and we have seen how vulnerable we are when such a virus comes around because it's probably a 50-year-old Dane that I am, in a better health situation than a 30-year-old Croat, and that's something that we haven't seriously approached, and it also shows when we talk about diabetes, but also when we talk about all other diseases how serious a public health problem we generally have from obesity and beyond. We're going to have to tear down that auto perception so we can seriously deal with prevention and then prevent diabetes and all other diseases. Another thing I'd also like to point out, and they're missing diabetics, and today we need to talk about them, is that it would be useful for them to make all the insulins available without surcharge, replacing old pumps with new ones, as well as providing new Libre models via HZZO. They may need to subsidise quality shoes and food supplements. Foot examinations should be included in the standard, make sure that they are removed or at least extend the time limit when the insulin is raised because the insulin requirement is not uniform, changes from time to time. And make it mandatory to work on reducing the discrimination of diabetics in employment and what is already highlighted here on education and on nutrition, but also on teaching staff on how to deal with diabetic children, children who have diabetes and how to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95548	The Republic has a respected representative, Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95549	Thank you, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Representative Selak-Raspudic. Let me just point out a little more. We had a recent story, you know, and you yourself took part in our fight and you advocated that a pack of cystic fibrosis medications enter the list of HZZOs that we ended up doing together and managed to achieve. But what I was saying in my presentation, I think it would be good for you to comment a little more, try to sort out the offer primarily in school or any other institution where the children are these self-service appliances, try to sort of remove from them what is potentially the most harmful to their health, which is, of course, all of them artificially or any other sweetened fruit-based drinks, chocolates, energy bars, and what they all call them. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95550	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95551	Comrade Dretar, I remember how much you fought for cystic fibrosis medicines and how in the end this story had a positive epilogue. And that's why I think it's extremely important that we, as Parliamentarians, take advantage of our position that at a time like this when we have the opportunity to talk about some of the diseases in this case of diabetes, use it for very specific things, to publicly say put it on the HZZO list of Baqcimi, please solve the problem of medical waste. And let's hope it ends the way it did and ends the story with cystic fibrosis and medications for her, and you fought for it publicly and thank you for that. As far as this issue of yours is concerned, I agree that it is necessary to work out that at least the schools of that minimum institution are propagating in practice on a purely healthy diet. But I'm afraid the problem will only remain partially solved, if not unresolved because of everything children can come up with. The moment they leave school. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95552	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95553	Dear counterpart Selak Rasdic, it is less known that my colleague Miletic and I in Gorski kotar went to the local self-government and we solved the problem of medical waste, so we should also mention where certain Italian companies cooperated with local self-government and used large warehouses where medical waste was loaded which had all the documentation. Trucks were heading towards Romania, but were unloading, so medical and effective waste in the Gorski Kotar. Well, here's your opinion on it. And secondly, you mentioned sports, and then your opinion of it. So, the Nordics in Northern Europe, somewhere in preschool, they're kind of kindergartens, so they're already going out to the first grade of basics, propagating swimming as a sport, and they're doing a lot of swimming to become their swimmers at that age. Do you see that it is possible in Croatia? That would be very good, for example, if our children were already swimmers at that age, and we directed them in that direction as far as sports are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95554	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95555	As far as medical waste is concerned, I'm glad you mentioned your struggle and it's good to remind her, because it's a serious public-health problem and I'm afraid he's been pushed under the rug, because right now we don't even know how much medical waste we have because of the covida-19 and everything that was used from the vaccine and further in trying to treat and suppress the virus. I asked that parliamentary question to Minister Beros, I never got a concrete answer. And the question of what our capacities are, what we've done with all this and, indirectly, through the use of different disinfectants and everything else, polluted the environment. These indirect effects of covid, I'm afraid we'll only feel when we talk about medical waste. And as for our diabetics who are in our focus today, I'm going to repeat once again that it's really humiliating that with all the troubles that you're being followed by this disease that you have nowhere to go with the waste resulting from the need, the fact that you're sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95556	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95557	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, you spoke today on several occasions about Baqcimi, so I ask you to speak again for the sake of the Croatian public and for all the people who are crucial at the end. Why is it important for you to make this medicine possible for people, and what should you do to make it available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95558	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95559	I'd best tell you here what the expert associations said about this drug and why it's important. It is laity and simplest because it significantly facilitates the procedure in case of hypoglycaemia, so there are much greater chances especially when it comes to children and unprofessional non-medical staff who will be in this situation, to help them and not only help them, but help them in a quality way. So it's a medicine that's given to a person by life to a dangerous and severe hypoglycaemia or coma. No more injections, no more needles, so I keep saying... For it may be a clearer idea than the dust which is now given through the nose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doesn't have to stay in the fridge anymore. The first is such a product and is not cheap, but is rarely used. A number of diabetics signed a petition. We could have heard from our colleague Maric here who says that society, professional society stands for the same thing. A number of diabetics write white recipes for this medicine and richer people are already getting it abroad, and this should not be a matter of property, but a question of health that everyone has the right to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95560	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentation, and on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95561	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm glad the debate was in the same tone. We will all hope to accept and vote this Croatian day of diabetes. I have to point out that it's not diabetes, it's a person who's suffering from diabetes, but here's if somehow he's still left. I also underline that there is some intention on world days or Croatian day of diabetes, so prevention, early detection and timely treatment of diabetes. When it comes to gestational diabetes, this prevention also plays a role in reducing and adiposeness, of course, you can't influence genetics, but in any case we take care of our pregnant women in time to detect gestational diabetes through OGTT 24-28 weeks if there are some risk factors then and immediately at the beginning of pregnancy. We also talked about the availability of various modern medicines and modern aids that really are our patients on the disposition, but at the outset there is a imbalance with the regulation of diabetes, so that in any case we will have to work and monitor the outcome of the treatment and, of course, motivate our patients and encourage them to be partners in their treatment and that indeed here they are taking care of how better to deal with diabetes. There is, of course, the issue of administration, which, despite its expertise and diabetes patients, has agreed to the reduced number of strips that have occurred for those on oral therapy from 100 to 50 per year. I know the details, we even planned a meeting of the secretary of state at the ministry, but we didn't end up keeping it because it turned out that a colleague who was a member of that KBC committee actually asked that the number of strips be reduced so that we had to coordinate the profession in any case. Most of the profession is to return the number of strips and, of course, be available to faxes and diabetes patients especially to children. Furthermore, I would like to underline what is certainly important to us as a profession, education and family doctors, nurses, increase the number of nutritionists, talk a lot about nutrition, about healthy lifestyle, about increasing physical activity. Daily hospitals must be in all hospitals, sufficient number of diabetics, educator sisters. And since as I said, the goal is to detect diabetes when it has not yet developed symptoms, so in the pre-diabetes phase, or diabetes that has those that we would say less glycaemic values when you don’t necessarily have to come to a diabetic, so there is an important concern for a family doctor. We're working with them a lot, there's a colleague who's really doing a lot of work. Of course there is always a need and somehow a tendency to especially younger colleagues to become more educated, they want it and we hope that we will increase education a little more when the pandemic allows us. In the health administration to adopt a national health care programme for people with diabetes, we have the last 2015-2020, some of us have heard that much has not been done in the national programme, so in any case we, as a committee headed by our president, will certainly open several more thematic sessions on the subject of diabetes and not just diabetes but a general health system. And I would just like to say a few more words about the resolution that has existed since 2011, so the Resolution on Sugar Disease declared by the Assembly, and we will certainly as a Diabetological Society, or as a profession, again refer the procedure to the Committee or to the Assembly to adopt a new Resolution on Diabetes Disease. So, this resolution has two pages of writing, but what is important is to propose to all competent institutions, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health, Science and Education, HZZ, HZZZ, all health institutions, economic operators, media and associations of diabetes, to take all appropriate steps from the section of their responsibility in relation to prevention, early detection and treatment, including rehabilitation in order to reduce the number of patients and deaths of diabetes. So everything we talked about today, from nutrition, from the media, from physical activity, from treatment, etc. We'll do all that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95562	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ivan Kirin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95563	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. An explanation of the proposal for a decision to declare on 14 May the Croatian Sugar Disease Day, declared by the HDZ Club of course. On 14 May, the Croatian Sugar Day would warn each year of a major public health problem of diabetes in our country that can be reduced by prevention, education and awareness raising of citizens, health professionals and society as a whole. This would give additional importance to this topic twice a year by marking the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease on 14 May and World Sugar Day on 14 November, which is of course marked throughout the world. Given the pandemic proportions of diabetes and the fact that more than 40% of patients still do not know that they are sick, that they have a disease, it is important to raise awareness of our citizens more often that diabetes can cause everyone to suffer. By preventing, early detection and timely treatment, we increase the quality of life of patients, reduce the production of complications of diabetes, and prolong the lives of patients. The treatment of complications consumes 88% of all diabetes medicines, which account for 19.8% of the total amount of HZZ. In 2020, 310 211 12 people with diabetes were registered in the Republic of Croatia. Previous studies show that only 60% of patients in Croatia have been diagnosed with an estimated total number of over 500,000. Sugar disease is the third leading cause of death with a share of 7.8% 2019. Diabetes is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, blindness, limb amputation. Complications reduce the quality of life of patients, while the concomitant treatment of complications makes the most mentioned, the share in the cost of treatment for diabetes. Marking the Croatian Day of Sugar Disease on May 14th would be one of the contributions to the impact on health improvement, prevention, early detection and treatment of diabetes, its complications and raising the quality and length of life of all of us especially younger generations. So diabetes is a complex and severe disease. A disorder that cannot be cured, but can be controlled to ensure a better quality of life. Thank you for your attention, dear God save you, God save Ukraine and the glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95564	Here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will be the final address of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95565	Before I go on this topic, I was reminded by my colleague Maric when she mentioned that it is not diabetics but people with diabetes who have a problem with the terminology that we have when we talk about vulnerable social groups and generally about the sick population of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, here I wouldn't want to be strictly possible if I was wrong, maybe even at some speed because everyone had a really good intention and the attitude of the assembly is unique about having this day, saying it together, helping people with diabetes, and it's very difficult to change the wrong terminology. However, I find it really important that we restore dignity to the Croatian Parliament to use the right terms and to speak as well as possible in a better and more correct Croatian literary language. And in that sense, on the trail of what counterpart Maric mentioned, I would like to highlight two more common confusions that occur, which affect those vulnerable social groups for whom the appointment is used inappropriate terms. One of the disabled is said to be a person with disabilities, so that should be correct. And we speak very often of disabled Colloquially. And secondly, there may be an even more common problem, so here it is useful to clarify this termology, for children are told children with developmental difficulties. And there are a whole series of wrong terms, children with special needs, children with disabilities etc., the official term is children with developmental difficulties. Like the official term of a person with disabilities, and when we speak if we really want in literary Croatian about diabetics or diabetics, the most accurate would be people with diabetes. And what may not at all differ in public terms in terms of proper terminology is not said by mental patients but by persons with psychosocial disabilities. Perhaps here in the Croatian Parliament we contribute a little bit to rid ourselves of these termological traps that are often used in public space. As far as people with diabetes are concerned, and of course this is always self - criticism, because I have a lot of work to do to express myself better and more correctly. I'm glad we have a consensus on declaring the Croatian Day of People with Diabetes. I hope that we will also do something concrete for people with diabetes. I pointed two things out here. One is a glucagon without a Baqsim needle to come on the HZZO list, and the other is to ensure the means to solve the problem of medical waste, storage medical waste for people with diabetes. I hope that this debate will contribute to these two issues being highlighted in public space, and that the result will be that they will be dealt with favourably for people who suffer from diabetes. Another amendment I asked for when the budget was proposed, and it could help the quality of life of people with diabetes, which is to invest in an educational recreational centre and resort for people with diabetes. Unfortunately, he was not accepted either, I don't know if it's because there's not enough hearing for people with diabetes or because he was opposition, but here's the opportunity to point out that need again. And then we have a broader public health problem that is a growing disease, which affects the younger age groups and, in general, our lack of awareness, the leniency of our own health when we talk about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. We need to see a little more realistic about what kind of condition we are in, and then work on education, prevention, sports, and anything else that will help us not to suffer from diabetes, but also to protect ourselves in any other sense, even if in the future, and God forbid we have Covid-19 or any other similar disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-04-0.u95566	Thank you very much, then I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and of course we will vote on it when the conditions are obtained.
