ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102795	The third is the Club of Representatives for the Righteous Croatia and dear colleague Miroslav Škoro, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102796	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. From this pay phone here, it's either hooking up or accusing itself or boasting or calling itself in some moments and threatening, but I'm going to just factography. So 10 months ago, I was talking about stealing the election that took place, and that's how the state institutions literally legalize electoral fraud, people accept it, part of it because they have to or because they don't care, but I don't have to, and I care, so I'm going to talk about it because it's one of the main reasons why I'm leaving and moving out of our country, namely this feeling that you can't do anything about it. And today, I'm not going to talk about the death of a beaten young man from the Vinkovakia New Sela where nothing happened, I'm not talking about privatisation robberies where nothing is happening, I'm not going to talk about the applications I filed myself, but therefore the electoral seat of Vrhovina, Gradina Municipality next to Slavonski Brod. During the election, it has been proven that people who were not at the polls voted, and that's where I could talk and end this speech, but I won't say it like this. Tomislav Tolic, who sat on the election board in front of TV cameras, confirmed that people who do not live at all in Croatia were rounding up, but in emigration. Tomislav Tolic also showed a text message from Draga Andric of HDZ monitors asking him to confirm that there was a person at the vote who, of course, did not approach the vote, and the message was sent the day after Monday's election at 9pm and 33 minutes, I don't think I can be more specific, perhaps for seconds, but I don't know. One of those in polling stations is Antonio Babic, who lives in Augsburg, Germany. Antonio Babic was last in Croatia on April 1st, 2021, after an election round he did not vote on because he was in Germany, addressed the competent municipal electoral commission as soon as President Domagoj Kozul confirmed that he was registered as a voter who joined the elections. Gabriel Prgomet, who lives in Hungary, was also not in Croatia at the time of the election, but his name was also circled as if he had voted. When asked how this was possible, he was told that his name, not his brother’s, had been misrounded. Gabriel checked and found out that his brother didn't make the election either, so that's what he tipped off, but of course nothing. It should also be noted that the president and vice-president of the electoral committee must not be party to the law, but it has been found that the chairman of the electoral committee is a member of the HDZ Supremes. So, everything was notified to the municipal, county and state election committee, the reaction is gone and I'm talking in the assembly there's nothing. We have choices and what's going on is happening. It has been proven that the rounded up people who were in prison that day, abroad or otherwise don't go to elections. So, after this presentation, I, Miroslav Skoro, the man who has committed many sins because I have run in the presidential elections, because I have created a party that won 16 mandates, mostly for people who would never win those mandates, because in the local elections I won several hundred more seats, here I call on everyone who is in charge of protecting the Croatian Constitution and the laws to respond to these evidences. First they come from me, then in a row. And that's an opportunity to show that we don't need to be powerless, that we can change something because ultimately in the assembly of 76 people's trade coalitions can now raise their hands in broad daylight and say that today is the night, at this point you can vote it out, but gentlemen is still day. So you can do anything, you have great responsibility, but you need to be aware that people are looking at us all together, looking at you. They're already aware that there's nothing we can do about the opposition. I know it's the easiest thing to look into the floor and tell ha, but that doesn't give results, and people are going away. They're leaving because of what I told you. You have names, last name, messages, minutes when the fraud took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102887	Let's move on, now it's up to my colleague Cappelly on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102888	Dear president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, the foreign policy of these days is the cornerstone of all the foundations because if we talk about food, if we talk about energy, if we talk about anything, we are obviously connected to foreign policy and events in Ukraine, and now I see that we are also talking a little bit about the Hungarian prime minister's statements. And I would then refer to that because there was a recent clock, a lot of not only the current hour but in the afternoons there was a report from the European Council where a lot was resented by the Prime Minister that after those visits to Ukraine that were before the war and aggression of Russia that nothing was reportedly happening in that diplomatic part during Ukraine's aggression and where the prime minister was not going to Ukraine as all statesmen did, not only the EU and the UN's chief secretary. So I would like to place a special emphasis on our Prime Minister Plenkovic's state visit to Ukraine, which sent strong support and support to Croatia on Sunday when he met with President Zelenski and other statesmen he met with. This is not the first visit I have already mentioned to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it is this commitment to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people that results from its continued visits to Ukraine, and in order to express our strong support on its European path, its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. I'd like to remind you that this is the third time in 10 months he's visited Ukraine where he's sent strong state support. I will also remind you that when the visit and the economic gathering before, so a few months before the aggression, when there were more than 300 thousand Russian and Belarusian soldiers at the borders of Russia and Ukraine, some events that eventually resulted in months later, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister, led 60, over 60 businessmen who had welcomed over 150 businessmen from Ukraine. So, regardless of all the events that have been seen in which direction it is going, we have given a signal to Ukraine, Prime Minister Plenkovic very clearly, we want and we want to think about the development of Ukraine, about everything that may someday need Ukraine to develop further and economically. It should also be recalled that a meeting of the Ukrainian platform where very important things have happened, if we can say so, was discussed security challenges, human rights violations, assistance insurance for victims, etc. And now we're coming to the day of victory, so when we expect news from Moscow on that parade of the famous one that was, by what the Americans and the British and the Germans were saying, that there's likely to be a announcement of mobilization, war, etc., etc. We have even cases many tourists from Croatia left because of this announcement that what if they happen to be in Croatia. But nothing happened, and it happened that the prime minister went very quietly to evacuate in Ukraine on that very day and gave maximum support in a very critical and worrying situation. Let us also not forget that Ukraine was among the first countries to recognise the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign and independent state on 11 December '91. Mr. So Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia work daily to strengthen Croatia's contribution to helping Ukraine. So we are determined to provide political, diplomatic, humanitarian, financial, security and technical support. Ukraine together with the Parliament, together with the declaration that we have brought together in this House, and I thank you for understanding in that difficult, critical moment when we were among the first 6 EU countries to bring such a declaration in this House. Therefore, this cohesion, the visit of the prime minister of Ukraine at a very difficult and worrying moment, the support of the parliament, is a way of foreign policy towards this situation that is in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102988	We are going to the 11th debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102989	Your Honor, I'm going to talk about a matter the government wants to hide from the public. Another drone fell to Zagreb and compared to this drone, the one who fell on Jarun a while ago and ignored all of us is just an ordinary firecracker. This drone has left a large crater in which a good part of the Croatian Parliament building stands without a problem, and if it is not urgently rescheduled for generations and generations will cause multiple damage. The entry of that drone into our airspace wasn't recorded on radar, that drone didn't come from anywhere nearer or further east. We don't have to be very wise or who put it together or who controls it because all its components are indigenous, originally Croatian. It's our domestic drone. We know his name, even though he's quite a run-off. It's not a blade, it's a grab. This time, the drone fell into the courtyard of the Silver Mansion Hospital and whoever doesn't believe let it go and I looked at that huge hole, in that huge crater as if it were caused by a meteor rather than a bomb. News was released in the media that a contractor had already collected his machinery and workers, then unilaterally terminated the contract, and said goodbye to the project. But he's not here as the lead artist, he's just a puppet. Over the project for a long time, vultures have been academic and real-estate corruption, and they can do it because they obviously no longer stand behind the project by city or state authority. Now what's a drone? The drone is a fact that not only will we lose the project for which the EU funds are provided with 60m euros, but we will have to pay from our own funds the cost of recovery and the dug-out dumps, the crater that is already a dangerous distance and should be the basis of the new transaction centre. The drone is that instead of one of the top science hospitals in technology, the most advanced, the most excellent, innovative, the most advanced one in Europe, no one else has one big nothing. Are you aware that our sick children have nowhere to treat? In Petrova, Kukuljevic, Klaic's hospital has not been invested for decades, nothing worth mentioning. These hospitals are not even restored after the earthquake properly, and for every more serious thing, for example, for the hypoplastic heart surgery and the hospital can only give instructions to perform surgery and treatment abroad, where medicine is not only known, but also because Croatia can treat our national potentials this way, and it refers to vultures and destroy them. The hospital in Blato, the National University Hospital, we wait as Godota, because it was never the right intention to make any of this happen. These are empty political promises that always break over the back of sick and vulnerabilities, and in Croatia these most vulnerable groups are always children and are always the most difficult victims of the system. And not to be irresponsible because it doesn't say who it is in the media who runs this drone of destruction, who over the Srebrenica vultures project and who our domestic scavengers are. I'll provoke them to answer for themselves. First of all, they are the ones who claim that the project Srebrenica is financially unsustainable, they are denied by the Feasibility Study and the cost of benefit analysis made in 2019. No one can say that it is much cheaper to send our children abroad for treatment, where operations are, and especially post-operative care more expensive. These are all those who have sworn for decades in the unity of the domestic and evicted Croatia, and are now destroying the project that our top scientists in the world needed to return to their home... So in the first place, those who were the Silver Hospital who, by the time Bora Nogala left, had financially successfully turned it into a loser in order to now attach it to much bigger financial losers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As much as Europe was willing to single out for the Srebrenica project, our health system generates losses at one month's level. In second place is the academic community, it's those who don't have their own scientific excellence, so when the Srebrenica collapses something will take away the Medical Faculty, something Rebro those who don't have their own excellence. In third place is real estate business, and fourth and worst of the four horsemen of the apocalypse are hypocrites. It's those who don't mind our children having nowhere to be treated, and those who have managed to do so say, Croatia no longer needs you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] You're not worth it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u102990	Thank you very much. Now, as the sixth in the House of Representatives club, the Mosta will speak to a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103124	I would like to invite all the mayors, the mayors, to offer fierce resistance, as well as your fellow MPs to HACOM, who has sent public consultation decisions to the local... in the area of the Republic of Croatia lose 150 million kuna on the right track. And this is convenient for HT and it is not news in the Republic of Croatia that Deutsche Telecom through privatisation from the released Mudrinic later and SDP came to the property of our infrastructure. However, what is now in the crisis when we talk about the collection of energy, poverty by energy to all poverty when chaos in the state of HACOM forgives it. It lowers the price to Croatia's Telekom, which is the least Croatian that has the highest profit in the EU 42%, which is essentially the largest monopoly that has taken the entire infrastructure. What are they doing? By the eighth kuna per metre they reduce to two kunas and forty. I call on the mayors and commissioners here to raise their voice, and today the committee is also at noon local self-government. What's going on in the matter of guessing the Brece Obrazed whether Seka is there... I don't know, but who's acting on this government, it's the Mišetic dynasty which our telecommunications system continues to transfer to German foreign HT owners. What's this work for? Which is why 150 million now in crisis, as many kindergartens as we can make local self-government for 150 million kunas. Only my city will lose 250,000 kuna. The city of Split 2 million kuna, Zagreb 10 times that, and everywhere wins HT, and the profit of HT in last year 2021 increased by 5%. Billion kunas are approaching and not investing in Croatia but investing in Montenegro, our money in countries where they come from and not only do so but only in the Republic of Croatia has been allowed by the legislator, the legislator allowed them to set up base stations or antenna pillars without a building permit wherever they can think of. For cultural goods, hospitals and the largest profit in the EU is the profit of a teleoperate 20 per cent. This is not a return to the Stone Age, but let the teleopers behave like they do in their own country. Now that we're on the verge of hunger, they're breathing out, when Orban is mocking us, now that we're running out of land ban law, Orban has banned... The land, and in Croatia it buys agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I gave that law three years ago. I gave the e-communication law three years ago, three times the government refuses the right to serve. If it had nothing to do with HT, Deute Telekom, it has nothing to do with Croatia. ... The family of the Misetic dynasty, which obviously has the greatest influence on the government of Andrej Plenkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is more than embarrassing. And then we call on ourselves to protect our national interests. We're protecting that winning goes into foreign hands. Is that a measure? Is the measure now this to give us 150 million kuna to reduce the right path from 8 kuna to 2 kuna and 40. The only company that has absolutely huge profits, in the crown they have the highest profit. Well, they're your sponsors. And what happened? Divinity. And now other teleopers, because they don't need a building permit, in Serbia they need a building permit, only in Croatia doesn't care how much they get. Teleopers. What, they're holding you for something? Keep your head up. Raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're working with foreign teleopers. You're taking money for kindergartens in my Zagora. For the roads. Why are you doing this? I asked you, fellow MPs, don't back this up, but this is a rulebook by the Ossuary Brothers. Directly near the Misetic family, which has the greatest influence on Andrej Plenkovic, I have been saying this for years, now I am publicly repeating it. To act like Superhik, when the people starve, he gives the biggest winners incentives and support and takes money away from the poor local self-government It's a robbery of robberies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103125	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much. We're going to the 7th debate, and now it's the honorary colleague Katarina Peovic on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club. Comrade Grmo, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103127	Dear President of HS, a series of articles of this Rules of Procedure have been injured by you and the HS Presidency, given the disturbing information provided by my colleague Bulj, I demand that the HACOM Regulation be discussed at the plenary session of HS. It is a shame to take money away from Croatian citizens in favour of HT. That rule needs to be discussed here, not on committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103128	He's a friend of Grumo's. Come on, please, this is such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it can't be any bigger. Now your colleague Bulj was talking about it for five minutes, he could say whatever he wanted. Whatever he wanted, and now you're reporting that I broke the Rules of Procedure because he forgot to say it. Oh, please, you're getting a warning. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103129	Thank you very much. You've hurt your ankle. 238. You disrespect the MPs, for 3 years it has been in the process of my law on telecommunications that, while this right of service and of the right path, is being resolved justly as in Slovenia and other states. We ask nothing else, you keep it under the table for 3 years as well as the right to ban the sale of agricultural land, 3 years standing under the table, don't say anything, and the Hungarians will buy us a whole of Croatia, while Orban forbidded. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] Why? Because your friend Andrej Plenkovic is that outside is the support in the campaign... [[Come on, sit down.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103130	You're getting a warning, too. You had five minutes, you could have said anything, whatever you wanted, and this, among other things. Now it's my fellow Glavasevic's turn on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103213	Thank you, Mr. President. "Brother with brother, Hungarian with Croats," said Minister Grlic Radman in Croatia and Hungary's relations at the time. I believe that writing a statement and diplomatic note because of Orban's wet dreams about the allegedly kidnapped Hungarian Adriatic that we allegedly kidnapped, Croatia, our minister... bitterly regretted his naive sentimentality which we had already had the opportunity to see both with Sergei Lavrov and in fact foolish ignorance about the history and relations of Hungary and Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So first and foremost, let's say that the only sea Hungary has ever had is the Pannonian one, so that's the only one, but that's what some say is that the Danube isn't bad either. In fact, almost every child in elementary school learns about Hungarianisation, about Khuen Hedervary, who here has got his foot in the ass from Josip Gržanić because he secretly sent to Budapest so he stole, stole documents, medieval documents on Croatian statehood. So when that Hungarian clown of a minister talks about brotherhood, I really have no idea what he means. Viktor Orban, to return to the present, never led a friendly, brotherly policy towards Croatia, refused to extradite Hernadi, systematically destroyed and povertyed the INA, and his wet dreams and... Croatian countries are absolutely nothing new to God, man has a map of a great Hungary in his office and we have talked about it many times here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dron, here's the last example, so the drone that fell in Zagreb has been escorted by Hungarian hunters to the border and they haven't informed us about it, so there's nothing brotherly or friendly about it, and that's what we need to say here. The question is why is Andrej Plenkovic silent, and why does Grlic Radman have to speak bluish and repeat Hungarian propaganda? Why is HDZ running Hungarian politics? Here's a theory, and Putin and Orban were great, and they were still super many supposedly moderate conservatives because they were funded, very often under the table, we saw in Austria several examples, because in their countries they also trampled on sexual and national minorities and reproductive women's rights. Anything these supposedly convinced would actually want, but here's the fear of saying it out loud. And then when Putin turns out to be a war criminal, which our Monty Python minister said at one point, and then he hesitated, he couldn't even speak unequivocally to me about it, so even when Putin turns out to be a war criminal, and Orban says out loud something that even the Hungarians of HDZ can't ignon him anymore, and then the wolf ate the donkeys, then our Hungarians big sovereigns are supposed to be in the background, gone from the weeds. Such an unscrupulous, autocolonial and ministerial policy directly harms citizens and citizens of Croatia and almost certainly has their rational in the personal material profit of individuals. We've already seen that, if you remember, because the HDZ's verdict on corruption is at the same time a verdict on Hungarianism. Those two are not separate, brother to brother, Hungarian to Croat, yes, yes. Sanader and Hernadi, Plenkovic and Orban brothers by corruption, so, such a brotherhood does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103214	A fellow Grmo's breach of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103215	He's been injured. 238nd colleague Bojan Glavasevic put HDZ in the context of sovereignty. The real sovereignist options reacted to Orban as they respond to HDZ's policy towards Serbia and Croats in BiH. HDZ is not a sovereign party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103216	You get a second warning from your colleague Grumo, and I will, as speaker of the assembly, refrain from commenting even though I would have to say a lot of things to my colleague Glavasevic, but I will not because I am in line, but it is not fair on your part to hit a minister who is not here and to use quite inappropriate and offensive formulations, and man cannot defend himself. He can't because he's not here at the assembly, but what can I tell you? Comrade Ursha Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103217	238. Art. 238. Insulting parliamentarians. What do you mean Mr. President of the Assembly that I can hold free speeches if you can't comment on people in public functions, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Health, all ministers, the Prime Minister, and yourself, whether they're here or not? How can you ensure that these people are present here? I'd be happy if we could say it to their faces, but even at the debates about the laws they come out of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103218	Thank you very much. My colleague Urša Raukar did not say that he could not speak to his colleague Glavasevic spoke, nor did I stop him, nor did I give him a warning, but I just looked back on it. And a fellow minister comes when it's his agenda point or when it's a question and answers in the morning, I don't know why the minister would be coming to our free debates right now. Here's another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103219	238 for the second time, you're insulting the MPs. You're implying that it's rude to talk about those who are here to us. In what way could you possibly comment on the government, the Prime Minister, the President of the Assembly, all people in public functions if it's as you say inappropriate? [[The incursion president: No.]] That's why you're completely undoing the role of the assembly and insulting our MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103220	No, Mrs. Raukar, if someone were talking about you as a clown, if you were Monty Python, and if you weren't there, I would have stopped at your protection, so I think, okay, my colleague Glavasevic was talking, but it was kind of natural for me to look back that it was a little awkward when a man didn't talk about him very offensively and very rudely. Very difficult words were said, but okay, I didn't give a warning. We are going to the fifth debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague, Marko Milanović litre, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103299	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives of the left wing who often like to beat themselves as they advocate liberal attitudes and promote the rights of individuals in the last week want to give political pressures to the rights of Croatian doctors on the call of conscience because for them ethics is moral, religious values acquired freedom and rights are only a letter on paper. Their attempt to strike a doctoral call to conscience is in fact another small step in trying to destroy Croatian culture and identity and tradition. Their policies and values change from week to week, from now on to hour, from minute to minute depending on what is currently in the public's focus, and they will defend their policies and values without any resistance, argumentation or plan. They're for freedom of speech if you're theirs, they're for the rights of individuals, but if you're theirs, they're for workers' rights, but only if you're theirs, they're for greater rights for doctors and medical staff, but only if you don't have a conscience call. During severe pandemic conditions, we could often hear them defending doctors and medical staff for a reason, but when a doctor has a conscience call, all support ends at that point. In moments of the biggest economic, economic, demographic crisis recorded, after all affairs, corruption and crime in the country of the united left and so on. The centre's biggest problem is an appeal to the conscience of Croatian doctors. They find it unacceptable for medical staff and doctors to have a conscience call, but I'd rather say it's incomprehensible to them. It's incomprehensible because they probably don't understand what morality and integrity is, it's incomprehensible that people who have spent their whole lives being educated to save people's lives, and they give us all a better quality of life not wanting to commit feticide. Even Mirela Cavida herself said it wasn't an abortion, it was an end to life. So who can force someone to do it? Who is it that we can condition or order someone like that? Who is he who can prepare himself for such a thing? The concept calls for conscience is under attack, and thus the core of what it means to act in a moral way with integrity. The rights of individuals help preserve the moral integrity of individuals, preserve the reputation of doctoral profession, protect against forced state authorities and protect against discrimination against those with minority beliefs. For that very reason, every person on the left of this assembly should stand in defense of the right of a doctor to appeal to his conscience. Often we can hear that religious and moral values belong to the private sphere of life, not to the public and that the doctor must not allow his or her personal beliefs to affect the care provided to the patient and the religion of the private and personal sphere of life, and public servants must act in the public interest rather than in their own. But the truth is quite different, it is often assumed that the role of conscience in medicine is relevant only for several specialised or limited areas such as abortion or contraception, but in fact the concept of conscience makes only the foundation of what it means to act in a moral way, act with integrity. The earliest version of the Hippocrates' oath began with the call of ancient gods, and in the first centuries after Christ, it began with the Almighty God. It is clear that the heart of the Hippocratic oath is a confession that a single doctor is practicing before a higher power, the power that he or she is responsible for, but it is astounding that Hippocrates' doctors have not sworn in either the emperor or the state, or the local lords and authorities, their oath is laid before the highest authority possible. In philosophical terms, it's a recognition of transcendence, a call for ultimate authority. So doctors aren't just paid craftsmen doing everything their mercenaries require, they're not just civil servants whose first loyalty is to the state, they're not just sellers whose job is to make clients happy. Croatian doctors walk along the rhythm of the second drum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103406	The fourth debate of a respected colleague, Ante Prkacin, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103407	From zero, I have to skip orban for the next time. Two days ago, two significant anniversarys were marked. One is Europe Day, the other is Victory Day over Fascism. Fascism is a worldview of what it is, which is worthy and condemned and despised. And if the debate over victory over fascism remained in the realm of dignity, truth, seriousness and pride, because part of the Croats contributed to victory over fascism, I wouldn't go into it. Unfortunately, however, we assume victory over fascism is some special Croatian antifascism I want to talk about. He has actually become the object of manipulation, the object of distorting truth and the subject of conflict between us Croats. Every year from April 10th until June 22nd, there is a real anti-fascist wave in Croatia that turns into hysteria, and hysteria passes to the Croatian Parliament. If she hadn't moved to the Croatian Parliament, maybe I wouldn't have spoken. I listened to the beginnings of such a debate last time, better quality, smarter, and smarter in a third-rate party than here. So, in order not to repeat the mistakes of my predecessors, I will say the following. That this Croatian antifascism actually hides within itself the defence and glorification of a system that was as criminal as fascism, hides within itself the concealment of Croatian communism and of all crimes, which is actually the opposite of what Europe is asking us to do, and asks us to treat each other equally. So, when you look at what researchers have found all over Slovenia in the Hudoja Cave, in Kočevska Rog, when you see 4 skeletons pulled out that are connected with each other with wire and one was shot and dumped, thrown down that people die 30 days in the most difficult torments, when you see all these strategists in Croatia then you see that this antifascism is not it, that there is something wrong. On the other hand, stories are also told that antifascism has helped us in Europe and the world. So, I'd like to ask a few questions about that, the testified anti-fascists. First, lately, for the last tens of years, the term has been mentioned more often, a thousand times more often than fascism. Come on, gentlemen, please nice anti-fascists, tell me when the anti-fascist movement started. I know and most of us know that the fascist movement was founded by Benito Mussolini in Milan on 23.3.19, when the fascist anti-fascist movement began? I don't know. Neither do those who know more of you. He tried something to answer to me by the academic Bilandzic in his own time, but the silent answer was. He mentioned the Atlantic Charter, so Churchill and Roosevelt's talks, but where the main anti-fascist Stalin was not there, and his contribution to the victory over fascism is twice as big as the two. And for the shame to be greater, there really was some kind of team, some kind of anti-fascist coalition of 77-8 states. Do you know who from the former Yugoslavia was a member of the coalition? Not Tito's People's Liberation Movement, but the refugee government in London. So when the Serbs start telling you stories about Draža Mihajlovic as an anti-fascist, don't go around like a hero in the hills because he was at one point and it was. He was both fascist and anti-fascist. But what exactly was he? He was a Serbian nationalist and nothing else. I'm not saying this to defend Draža, there are such smart guys but to relativize that antifascism. Next, the detail I mentioned was 9.9.43. He's capitulating Italy. At the headquarters of Josip Broz, English liaison officer William Bill Deakin, who receives the capitulation of 200,000 Italian soldiers, will not inform Broz of the agreed capitulation so that Broz will not pick up the weapons because he is being held by fascists but by his ally. Forty thousand Yugoslavs, Croats and Slovenians in the Italian army, all of whom are one Broz, so the federals do not give them or let them go. Even more embarrassing. Two months later in Tehran, a Tehran conference, it's those who say Broz committed crimes, but he included us among the winners, among the anti-fascists. In Tehran, the conference is most embarrassing. When all the battles of World War II have long been over, when the result of World War II is known, Broz and his army do not gain the status of an Allied army. That's why Goldstein broke up with me for a while. I've asked this and a few more questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103408	Thank you. And last debate today on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103508	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here in the debate on the object of conscience comes from the assumption that those who are minority cannot be right, that what was established as a regimeal state of consciousness is always right. I'll give you a few examples that are from history, which challenge it. In Sophocle’s 5th - century antigonal drama before or before the New Era of Antigon, he decided, despite the laws governing the death penalty, that someone who died by death who did not recognize the King as the death that should be entitled to the tomb of the Antigona, he decided to bury his family and escort them as everyone else was sent away, she knew that they would be punished by the death penalty for it. It's the same with St. Peter, in front of the great council of Rome, who, like other apostles, preached Christianity unlike Rome, who did not do so at the time. We will jump quickly to the 20th century Franz Jagerstater, an Austrian peasant, in '43, has a movie about it, he went to death rather than to the Nazi army, was convicted, as a member of the Catholic faith in 2007 was declared a blissful man. I'll give another example, Cassius Clay later Muhammad Ali in '67. as many progressive people in the U.S., they felt that the imperial American war in Vietnam was unfair and did not want to serve the American army and was sentenced to five years in prison. Later, the U.S. Supreme Court changed it and Muhammad Ali or Cassius Clay didn't go to jail. These examples show that the objection to conscience or that it is not a matter of the majority state of consciousness, as we wish to interpret and establish it. And where? In medical staff, people who choose a profession choose to be gynecologists and know what's in their job description. Imagine an officer training for an officer of any kind of military force, who then says after that I don't want to hold arms or I don't want to make decisions in an order that will cause people to die. Our constitution says that one who does not wish to join the army has the right not to go to the military and do business that is not related to the question of life and death. Is the woman spoken of nearer to the Antigonal, who begs for abortion, not because she does not want children but because she suffers from severe suffering with the condition of her foetus and severe diagnosis? Did this woman deserve this kind of attention and did we in Croatia deserve an increase in the wrong interpretation of the conscience, that the growing number of hospitals in Zagreb and elsewhere refuses from the conformism against the law that is in force, contrary to the constitution that is in force, against the medical oath that has been in force since '48, and then in 2017, the changed and officially translated into our language and recognised by the world alliance or the World Association of Doctors who bring it? Are we the people who want a parallel system? One in which we will have the law, and the other in which we will have the belief or customs that someone imposes, and we do not know who imposes them all. Medical professors, directors, [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Bishop, who's doing this? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Will We Sacrifice? Human health due [[Adversity President: A fellow Pupovac, thank you time is up.]] That we are unable to assess values between freedom and health? [[Adversity President: A colleague of Pupovac please timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103509	Dear Pupovac, please get a warning, you've been out of time for 15 seconds and I don't think that's fair. Col. Milanović litre injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103510	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238nd fellow Pupovac here as part of the ruling majority is making enormous pressure on medical staff and on doctors all who have a moral act of appeal to conscience, something about morality that neither you should know nor know Mr. Pupovac because you and your government member are currently acting immorally. And it is clear to me that you cannot understand that act and I do not expect it from you, but do not put pressure on the professionals behind whom the Croatian Medical Chamber also stood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103511	My colleague Milanović litre you get a warning, my colleague Pupovac has expressed his position as many others have expressed their views, some agree with others, others disagree with this Parliament we have all received the citizens' trust for the programs and the worldview that we represent so that it will continue to be so. You've been warned. A fellow Pupovac? You won't, okay, thank you very much. Then we came to the end of the free speech, and now we will cross as we have announced a statement on the amendments. We're going to have 12 debates on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103551	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's every day I get information from the media that this energy shock or the price of food will continue and all those projections that the central bank did about half a year ago where they said it was temporarily falling into the water is, now the European Central Bank, the American Fed, all saying that now, that this inflation is permanent, that it is no longer a temporary character and that it will have a serious impact on the standard of citizens. So it was recently confirmed by the government with a price change, a change in their projections of how much inflation was going to be, and when this first package of measures we welcomed, which was good and which we said didn't matter who proposed it, but it was good for the citizens, then inflation wasn't as much as the minister predicted. He recently came out through the Convergence Programme and publicly confirmed that inflation would be 7.8%, which means that in the second part of the year, he himself confirmed, inflation would be greater than these 7.8% because why? Because in the first part of the year it was smaller, which means inflation will go up to 10% in the second part of the year. When inflation is about 10% so and what awaits us in the fall we have to because inflation hits the poorest, hits the most pensioners, and tomorrow we bring budget rebalances and we'll see who's going to participate in that budget rebalance. Our appeal is to reconsider that for the second part of the year, for the 9th month you bring, the first was the covid supplement, the energy supplement, now call it whatever you want, call it an inflationary supplement for the pensioners, if the government itself admitted that in the second part of the year there would be 10% inflation, and she admitted with the documents itself, then it's okay to add to the pensioners one-time that inflation supplement because this part of the indexation won't be enough for them. Inflation is 8%, public services get 4%, how much pension indexation they get, 2%. So how much lagging behind on the inflation of pensioners, there we can talk about a variety of whether we should do a change in indexation to use a more favourable or some other supplement, but what is, the fact is that inflation is 8%, that 4% of the public unions and that they got a billion and a half and that health will swallow 6 billion, and now here it's up to us to make a decision. Health is a monthly loss of 500 million kuna, an inflation allowance for pensioners is 500 million kuna a year, and now we'll be here when we're making rebalancing whether we're going to continue to give health care, I think we should, but monthly 500 million more or once a year to pensioners 500 million for this inflation supplement, it's a political decision, it's a purely political decision. Until the health care is put under the control of the reform, I don't see why those most endangered in inflation should wait their turn, and inflation has happened so now the construction sector will move towards the government if they need it because of the energy price, the price to finish, the wholesales have already put pressure on the government. Here I welcome Mr. Hrelj and his efforts for the pensioners, and I think it was good for the pensioners, because I think it's good, but we think it should happen again in the 9th month after the tourist season, because it's a political decision, a political decision, a share of wages, a share of pensions in the average salary from 40 fell to 37% and it's going to fall, it's going to fall because it's actually an unfavourable wage ratio, so it's just this example in the state sector, 4% of them, pensioners 2%, past this one-time supplement, and that's why we're going to say we'll back it up, all that's good we'll back up, there's no discussion, and there's good for both the left and right parties to greet it, but I think that once again the pensioners deserve to be great first before they get back to their governments and their demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103634	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103635	Good afternoon. Falcon, Shakespeare and Storm. 1990, August. They're on Krk. They write the Croatian Constitution. In this Croatian Constitution, every man is entitled to freely decide on the birth of children. On the way from Krk to Zagreb this right from the Constitution disappears. This 1990 Constitution was based on the 1974 Constitution where the right to abortion was clearly expressed as constitutional law. The article also remained in the Serbian and Slovenian Constitution. Today, if the Croatian Constitution had the right to abortion, it would be more difficult to interpret the laws in the way Beros interprets the laws today. It would be a really difficult manipulation of the gymnastics move to explain that a woman has no right to abortion because it is the right that a woman has indeed chosen. Unfortunately, after fighting, after supporting the scientific community, after supporting the legislation, after supporting the whole meaning of the social public, we are in a situation that we actually have to reactively defend the rights that we already have and the woman has the right to abortion. So I would like to call on HS representatives and representatives of the unification to mean the demands of women's associations to return to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because we see that the laws are actually broken, regardless of which they are completely unequivocal, there is no dispute over the Mirela Cavide case, however, the law is broken even though the law has a very clear definition, meaning 3 cases in which the abortion can be made after 10 weeks of pregnancy. Therefore, the laws in this country, regardless of their unambiguousness, come into a situation to violate them because of the general climate that was created and because of this whole attack on women's reproductive rights. So that abortion would really be available is not just enough laws, it has to be really free and it means that, to, to, to pay HZZO, it needs to be available, so if we have a situation where laws are uniform, 60% of gynecologists of conscience makes abortion inaccessible to those women who are poorer, who are weaker property status because those who are better property status will make that abortion in Slovenia and then we are bringing ourselves into a situation to actually interpret that abortion is a truly public health issue, but also a political issue and we need all to be unique. Tomorrow the Secretary of State of the Holy See will come here and give us a speech that we will not be able to answer, but we will listen to it. After that, there will be a debate on the law that regulates means the right to abortion. We cannot ignore the role of Kaptol and, in this case, the disappearance of abortions from the constitution, means, in the very words of one of the authors of the constitution, that this magical disappearance of abortions from the constitution from Krk to Zagreb occurred, at the request of Kaptol, and we cannot amnesty the role of the church in retraditionalization that brings us into a situation that women cannot make a legal abortion in the country but must go to another country. Therefore, what we are asking is that the public health issue of abortion is raised as a political issue and that it is determined that such a large number of conscientious callers who are actually bringing particularly women of weaker property status to the situation of denying the right to abortion is a question that has come and is potential from the church those who were up to 10 years ago. Gynecologists, who have done their job, are now suddenly conscientious callers, they are conscientious callers, at the same time doing so in their private hospitals, in private offices, therefore it is important to call them to the list of people who do not carry out the abortion, have private offices and to be convicted publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103636	A colleague of the Hill's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103637	Dear Mr. President, you may not have seen whether the gesture made by colleague Zekanovic towards colleague Katarina Peovic deserves every conviction when speaking, because we can have different opinions, but the basic rule of democracy is to listen to what the other one is saying, to listen with respect and not to do such comedy and showing, hand-to-hand to the speaker. It's pretty rude, too, ma'am. Catherine deserves an apology for such a procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103638	Thank you, colleagues of Hrelja, I don't know what you're talking about, I didn't see it, so I don't know, but here comes my colleague Zekanovic, so he might explain... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103639	Dear colleague Hrelja, here I will publicly apologize for being a colleague of Peović while talking about the abortion showed this small model of a child who is unfortunately allowed to kill in Croatia, unfortunately allowed and you have been in fact deluding the Croatian public all along saying that the abortion is not allowed, unfortunately it is allowed, but I will do so a little more later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103640	So, colleagues of Hrelja, now a colleague of Zekanovic explained, I will not be giving any warning now because you had probably the best intention, he explained the same thing as he did, nothing we go further with then the debates. Second debate on behalf of IDS Representatives Club esteemed colleague Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103682	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Fuel especially diesel drivers are economies. Without it, there is no production, agriculture, some other economic branches, which has a significant impact on the price of products that are growing unconstitutionally. And unfortunately, our citizens are wondering, will these gatherings come to an end? Life expenses from month to month are getting higher. More and more people, unfortunately, are making ends meet and without pathetics, wondering how much longer they will be able to endure. Some may not even be aware of particularly some ministers who do not remember the last time they were in the store, but even in stores, food is bought in wars because the consumer basket has become so expensive that our citizens are some foods such as meat, fish, fruit, even hygiene supplies simply cannot afford it in any other way but to pay for it over several months. And unfortunately, this is a Croatian reality. As for the specific fuel price so far, the government has reacted by fixing the price of fuel on two occasions, and then freed the mandatory blending of biofuels into diesel and gasoline. And I've said that on many occasions, and I'm going to say now that a serious country can't keep the standard of citizens at some level in a way that freezes prices. And I think it's clear to everyone, because it's only a temporary measure that has a certain effect at the time of adoption, but there's almost nothing in the long run. I can't say that reducing excise duties is not such a solution, but we must say that this is also a fire strike that is necessary to stabilise the country's business, but it cannot survive in the long run. It should also be made clear to our citizens that there is definitely plenty of room here, especially when we know that from one liter of gasoline almost 50% of the amount of excise duty and taxes, and when we talk about a liter of diesel here we talk about some 40 percent, that's where the state pays and the excise tax, but also VAT or we have a double taxation system. It is therefore a fact that the government has enough space to reduce excise duties, but it also abolishes double taxation because there may also be a collapse of the constitutional principle of the tax system's justice. And when the government intends to take certain steps, we unfortunately do not know and we are still waiting because the rise in energy prices is becoming constant and the prices of growth from day to day, and our citizens are increasingly afraid of new purchases, and the country is increasingly profiting every day and is unable to give up in favour of its citizens and we can hear these days that people pour at gas stations 100 to 200 kuna in order to patch the end, respectively, from tanks to tanks to tanks. So we're in a situation where the citizens of the day two before the announcement of gatherings in the ranks are waiting for them to pour fuel like in some former times, in some former regimes. And what's next? Very likely to drive a couple odd because instead of going ahead we're going backwards. We have been warning for a long time about the unsustainability of the expenditure side of the budget and the holes that have been released everywhere. First of all, I think of Minister Beros and the debts generated by the health system. So as much as we talk about it, as much as we warn and indicate that this kind of health system has not been sustainable for too long, absolutely nothing is going on, there is no concrete reaction, literally like we're all talking about this together in vain. The debt of large-scale drugs that already know birds on the border is record high and amounts to over 6 billion kuna and the question is who will pay for it, and we all know the answer, it will pay the citizens again instead of those responsible for the systematic and long-term non-resolvement of the problem. A package of government measures from February this year, as we stressed at the time, did not get the results the government predicted and the standard of citizens unfortunately continues to fall unconstitutional. Can we get down even lower, probably we can, especially if the rulings don't wake up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103720	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103721	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Respect for some fundamental values is an inevitable setting of every human relationship, whether it is built and cherished in our families or in a professional environment. A similar rule applies to high policy, but there is also a significant difference since the decisions you make in this sphere of social action affect a far wider circle of people than the decisions we make daily in our intimate environment. And it is precisely a blessing to find in responsible state positions persons who are characterized by the ability to understand the problems faced by the socially most vulnerable group of our society, our pensioners. Prime Minister Plenkovic expressed his willingness to listen carefully and react in order to find a sustainable and enforceable model of payment of an energy supplement or, as the pensioners themselves called it, the Red Bull Supplement and thus demonstrate agility, but also the complexity in these difficult times of challenge and temptation. And what's my role in this whole story? Well, let me tell you a little bit. At the first parliamentary majority meeting, I initiated the need to ensure such an addition to the most vulnerable groups of Croatian society, which are pensioners. Of course, the Minister of Finance and then Minister Aladrović were working on it, and so, along with the proposals for the opposition that has demanded that the energy supplement be paid in accordance with the Covid supplement paid last year, we came to the government's decision, which defined the payment of the energy allowance for pensioners. And then from associations, associations from some opposition parties, screams, that's a little bit. Well, of course, everything's a little small. It's never enough to patch up holes in budgets, personal, family, etc., but it's worth the effort and it's worth respecting such a single move. Then when we discussed it, there was a second scream. That a lot of people are going to fall out because there's been an indexation. Indications and three-month pension payments, which the prime minister said would harmonise the maximum amount of the energy supplement in 4 categories, 1500, 2, 3 000 and 4000 kuna, and then happened last Wednesday when I had an appointment to determine the dynamics of the law-making and achievement of the family pension project and we touched, I received a decision on what would look like these new border values and gave the prime minister one suggestion. The decision prepared for the government said that instead of 1500, the new limit value would be 1533.16 kuna. I suggested that the prime minister turn it in another way, that it is this, something that is as a new limit value exactly subject to criticism that we are calculating something on two decimals and I suggested that these limit values raise everything by 100 kuna, from 1500 to 1600, 2000 to 2100, 3000 to 3100 and 4000 to 4100. He reacted in 5 seconds, the Legislative Committee called on whether it was possible to change the decision. He got a confirmed answer, called on the Secretary-General to twist that model with new amounts, and what I have to say is I'm not here, I'm not coming up, I'm not licking myself. I've been here for 20 years, but I've been called here to say the impression that the Prime Minister was very pleased that I came to him with this proposal and that he can change the decision regardless of what 20 million kunas require for our pensioners from the state budget. And I'm going to end up being a messenger for the good news, and I'm asking our pensioners not to kill the messenger. The payment of the covid supplement is 13.5. I heard it from the mouth of Minister Marić, and when he says the money will be ready and all of it on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103722	Thank you very much. Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. As always at the beginning of the session, the presentation of the position of the clubs of representatives and independent representatives. First in line today, dear colleague Darko Klasic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u103750	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In Zagreb, the village of Dubrava was blown up early in the morning by an explosion of an ATM machine on February 3rd. On March 14, 2022, there was an explosion at an ATM in Sesvedi. On March 28th, the ATM was blown up in St. Simon on Markushevci. The day before yesterday, 9.5.2022, an ATM robbery took place next to Ivanic-City. There are more and more break-ins in ATMs, although legal regulations in this Croatian Parliament were passed less than a year ago. According to statistics, attempted robbery happens on average every 10 days. Explosive ATM robberies lately are not rare because ATMs have become an easy target for relatively large expected prey with little risk. Last year, a record 79 bank break-in was recorded in Croatia, almost twice as much as in 2020 when there were 44. This year, the upcoming trend of this black statistics continues, although in the Croatian Parliament, as I said on 23 April 2021, this Parliament voted the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. In Croatia there are almost 6000 ATMs of which 4680 are on public surfaces or in residential or business buildings. In particular, it worries that criminals most often attack ATMs by causing explosions and injecting a mixture of gas into the ATM housing. This kind of robbery certainly endangers the safety of people, their lives and property, and it is certainly only a matter of time before such a robbery ends with the worst possible consequences with human victims. The law on the protection of monetary institutions that we passed last year provides that all external ATMs must be equipped with a system of electrochemical protection that permanently marks and destroys bills in an attempt to break into ATMs, which is the best measure to prevent an attack on ATMs because the bills thus become unusable. Such equivalent protection since the introduction of the transport of money in security vehicles, the number of robberies of those vehicles has almost been zero. This further confirms the effectiveness of dissuasion of the nature of such measures and the law also stipulated that banks are required within three years of the entry into force of the amendments to the law to the law to place active electrochemical protection, providing for protection measures in at least one third of the total number of ATMs each year. So this is what 1,500 ATMs already need to be protected this way. ATMs are set up in residential business buildings, so every explosion and endangers the safety of citizens. The introduction of the euro is another additional risk factor because the value of the banknote will rise by about 7 and a half times at some point, making such robberies even more attractive. While the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions has been passed for more than a year, the shifts have not been seen, unfortunately, in almost daily black statistics, as some banks oppose saying the expensive introduction of active electrochemical protection. I find such an explanation of banks as well as the non-implementation of the legal obligation of banks unacceptable, as this directly and directly endangers human lives with material damage. Taking into account that the security of citizens and their assets is a fundamental legitimacy and the purpose of the State's supervision and the action of the implementing prescribed protection is an imperative obligation not only to avoid or bypass but also to meet it zealously. That is why I call on all banks in the Republic of Croatia not to harm the security of their clients and to actively implement legal obligations. I also call on the competent institutions to monitor their implementation, as for the time being banks have failed to fulfil the legal obligations of adequate protection of their ATMs. Otherwise, the best intention of the promoter and the law will remain only one in a series of dead letters on paper. Let's not wait for human sacrifices, and then question why the law didn't apply. In this respect, the public rightly expects urgent action and immediate changes to legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104683	And now we move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 182. On behalf of the promoter here is Honored Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak. We will begin first with the conclusion proposed by the Social Democrats Club, so the conclusion is: "1. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land P.Z. No. 182 is referred to in the third reading and 2. It is up to the applicant to consider any observations, proposals and opinions raised in the debate in order to draw up a final proposal for the Law.’. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104684	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that the debate on the Law is conducted in the third reading or on a proposal to refer to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Agricultural Land to the Third Reading. The proposal is of the opinion that these proposals are unfounded and unwarranted, given that the debate also sets out observations and the proposed amendments to the improvement and clarification of certain provisions, in which neither the final draft of the law is amended in substance nor in concept. In establishing the criteria for the allocation of agricultural land owned by the State, the OPGs, former owners, young farmers and domestic farmers whose agricultural activity is essential shall be given priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104685	Who's going to show up? No one. Well, then we'll vote on that conclusion, so let's move on to the amendments, the review was sent to you by electronic means. Let's go in turn, it's the first turn of the SDP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104686	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is the process of detaching agricultural land from the forest economic base as defined in the applicable law and the proposed amendments. in a way that applicants may be units of local self-government or interested natural or legal person and that the costs of bringing in a agricultural purpose cannot exceed 50 years of double initial lease. The applicable law prescribes a way of amending or supplementing the available programme which differs significantly from the content of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104687	Who's going to show up? My colleague Vlasic Iljkić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104688	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We disagree with your argument. First of all, we must note that these are already the third amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land adopted in 2018. And that is now changing 108 articles of 108 articles is changing 61 articles, which actually creates preconditions for making a new law, not amending and supplementing it. We also propose an article concerning this amendment. 3rd amendment relating to the issuance of the ministry's consent to the demarcation of land from the forest-economic base, which is managed in the catastra as agricultural. Provisions should be harmonised because they are in accordance. 52. The Law on Forests sets out certain forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia with a solution, not the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture to be adopted on the basis of the opinion of the Commission, an assessment of the costs of bringing in agricultural production and a list of forest-economic plans carried out. We also propose making a unique record by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests for all land described in the catastra as agricultural and to enable it to be leased. The relevant provisions of the law prescribe an initiative for this procedure at the level of units of local self-government and natural or legal persons, which is not logical because it is agricultural land owned by the State. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104689	Okay. Let's go to Amendment No. 2 MPs Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104690	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the provision is proposed and harmonised in accordance with the agronomic profession's opinion in the process of preparing amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104691	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104692	In addition to the proposed measures, a number of new measures should be added with a view to preventing erosion in view of the current state of climate change and the high degradation of our soils. One of the biggest problems is the low level of conservation zero soil treatment and the share of agricultural areas without winter cover, as outlined in the Commission recommendations for the strategic plan of Croatia. Winter plowing and nakeding across winter is part of traditional practice, but it has worked on significantly different climate conditions that have changed in recent times. Instead of freezing and chilling in winter, more rainfall leads to significant erosion, this should also contribute to the non-compliance with the good agricultural practice of the diverse fruit and the application of green fertilisation to which the soil is enriched by humus. Therefore, the measures referred to in Article 1(1) shall apply. 6 should be added to the mandatory maintenance of the cover in winter months and respect for good agricultural practice including diverse fertilisation and green fertilisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104693	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104694	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104695	3rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104696	The amendment is not accepted. This is already covered by the provision of Article 1(1). The 26th Act, i.e. in the section 1st point g i h, is prescribed that the investor shall be exempt from the compensation for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the construction of a flat area of 600 square metres, if built within the building area and in the construction of residential buildings of an encouraged housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104697	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104698	Thank you. We also support the release of investors from paying a one-time fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land, what you have said, but we believe that young people, as well as other interested ones, should be allowed to rebuild abandoned housing units in our rural areas. We are witnessing that many houses in our villages are abandoned and year by year are failing. Besides, they're not legalized, and the state is doing nothing about it. If someone wants to rebuild the house in the rural area, the first thing that can be met is the payment of various fees and we consider it de-stimulating and require that more decisive steps be taken to resolve this issue and we suggest that when building and restoring the facilities for the purpose of providing housing for young people and other interested people in rural areas be free of the means of paying that fee. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104699	Amendment 4, MP Ruzica Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104700	The amendment is not accepted. Art. The 50th century 4 of the Agricultural Land Act is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture maintains the Register of Contracts and Payments, and the way in which this register is kept is prescribed by the Regulation on the Registration of Contracts and Payments for Agricultural Land owned by the Republic of Croatia. These amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land cannot prescribe provisions relating to the functions of the ARCOD system as it is also prescribed by the Law on Agriculture and by the sublegal regulations. The entry into the ARCOD is not an integral part of this Law but is governed by the Law on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104701	Here are the MPs, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104702	Thank you, Mr. President. So, Madam Secretary of State, forgive me for not believing this argument of yours. So I asked that the system itself be made as transparent as possible because right now we have the situation that the Audit Office itself has pointed out in its report that we have no record of or use of land or land collection. I think it's an extremely big problem because even at the level of municipalities and cities when you ask the question of who uses land, at which price, has it been paid, you regularly get rejected and you don't get answers because they claim so in municipalities and cities that these are classified data. It's not good, we know that our agriculture destroyed injustice, and if the system opened up, if we made such registers, no matter what law, I just wanted to point out the illogicality that the Office itself pointed out, so if they made the system transparent, then there would be no more such behaviour by the municipalities, and finally, the farmers themselves would finally believe that the state was doing something for them. So I think we need to hurry up with the opening of the system, we need to know who's using the land, who's renting, who's in the concession, and of course at what price, whether it's paid or not. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104703	5th Amendment, MP Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104704	The amendment is not accepted. Registration of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia shall be established and maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture, and not by the Ministry of State Property, in accordance with the Law on Agricultural Land and the Regulation on the Registration of Contracts and Payments for Agricultural Land owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104705	My colleague's gone, so we'll vote. 6th Amendment, Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104706	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 30th century 1 but not 3 and 8, but not.../incomprehensible/... 3 and 8 of the applicable law prescribe the content of the agricultural land distribution programme owned by the State. The legislator considers it important that the content of the programme also makes data on the areas set for... a replacement when no return of property is possible seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important that farmers who currently use state-owned agricultural land, which may be subject to return or replacement, as well as all other interested persons, have the possibility of public insight into the planned purpose of cadastrian particles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104707	Comrade Jackov, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104708	Thank you. We're withdrawing the amendment and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104709	7th Amendment, same club reps. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104710	The amendment is not accepted. Areas located within the forest economic.../incomprehensible/... or representing a public water well, cannot be subject to the programme and are subject to other specific regulations. The cadastar particles which are part of the public water well or are part within the forest-economic base can be leased.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104711	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104712	We're withdrawing the amendment and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104713	Thank you. We're going to the 8th Amendment, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104714	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that agricultural land owned by the State can be sold under the terms and conditions laid down in this law. It is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the content program... provided for in paragraph 4 because it thus protects agricultural land owned by the State against excessive alienation or sales. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104715	Who's going to show up? Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104716	Thank you. The final proposal to amend and supplement this Act has proposed amendments. 30 and where it is proposed, we propose to delete the indent that is stated, the area determined for sale once maximum up to 25% of the total area of agricultural land owned by the state. It is our position, and we have pointed out several times that we are against the sale of agricultural land owned by the state except for the sale by direct contract for smaller areas. The Ministry should provide the HS with data on how many units of local self-government have introduced into its programmes the possibility of selling agricultural land, how many sales contracts have been concluded under the provisions of the applicable law and how many hectares in the area of which units of local self-government could be discussed further, so we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104717	Okay. 9th Amendment, Committee on Agriculture, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104718	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104719	And then it becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 10, SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104720	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the amended form. The position of the applicant shall not be accepted in the section relating to land which is mined and on which the irrigation system exists and given by law for up to 25 and 15 years, respectively, in order to justify the investment of the tenants in the leased area. Or the maximum area for the lease. The amendment shall be accepted in a modified form by means of a read. In Article 15, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10, the following are added: The Community of Local Self-Government or City of Zagreb in a public tender may determine the maximum area that can be leased to a single natural or legal person and associated natural and legal persons, where the maximum area to be leased to a particular natural or legal person and to a related natural and legal person cannot exceed 50% of the total area of agricultural land owned by the State in the area and the unit of local self-government or the City of Zagreb. Exceptionally from the items 8 of this article, the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb in a public tender may determine more than 50% of the total area of agricultural land owned by a country that can be leased to a particular natural or legal person and associated with natural or legal persons for... which are under permanent plantings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104721	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104722	Thank you. We accept in, amendment in modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104723	In a changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104724	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104725	Okay. We're going to the 11th SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104726	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that, in the final draft law, the procedure for the implementation of a public tender for the lease of agricultural land owned by the State is properly arranged in a way that will allow efficient and transparent availability and protection of agricultural land owned by the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104727	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104728	Thank you. The final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements shall amend the whole of Article 31. The subject article is an example of how the agricultural land law was amended and complemented. A number of provisions are defined by non-linked items covering different areas. As the article in your proposal has 29 items, its division is proposed in 3 parts. The first part would define the content of a public tender, in the second part of the implementation, and in the third part would mean defining the provisions in the case of land use without a valid legal basis. We suggest that the amount of land that can be leased under the programme is 60% for family farms and 40% for legal persons. In this way, family farms that form the basis of agricultural production in Croatia would finally be given priority. In addition, in the existing paragraph 11, which becomes paragraph 6, a maximum area of 100 hectares at national level has been proposed and paragraph 7 has been added in the event that the production technology unit is greater than 100 hectares in order to avoid land parceling. This proposal is based on a report from the State Audit Office which recommended that, in order to prevent the parcel of agricultural land, which would result in deforestation, clear criteria should be laid down for establishing the minimum and maximum area of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia to be leased for agricultural production. Also, what is important to note is that a rule which is, that a regulation that regulates the way in which registers and contracts and charges have not yet been adopted is necessary. A Regulation on the Register of Registrations and Payments for Agricultural Land which should be published in 6 months is after a few years... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104729	Thank you very much, time's up, vote yes, well can. 12th Amendment of Representative Marin, Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104730	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the proposal for a law requires that a public tender be opened for all available agricultural land. In accordance with that provision, it is possible to open a public tender for lease only for part of the land available, in the case of multiple forces, or where the conditions for the opening of public tenders are not met in accordance with the Regulation on the conduct of a public tender for the lease of agricultural land and the lease for ponds in the Republic of Croatia. The production technology units may consist only of particles or parts of particles that lead to the cataster as agricultural land. Particles that are led to the catastra as a road, a channel or so cannot be the subject of a competition until culture is changed to a catastro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104731	Here's a statement from my colleague, Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104732	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here I am sorry that we have failed to find a solution to the problems of many units of local self-government. I hope that we will also initially, as proposed by the provisions of the laws, manage to get in touch with the problem and call for tenders on agricultural land. I'm pulling that, yeah. [[/Intruder: You're pulling it?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104733	Okay. 13th Amendment of MPs Kolerek and Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104734	The amendment shall be accepted in part and in a modified form. The view is that agricultural land should be used in accordance with the accepted economic programme. The sublet is the reason for the termination of the contract the proposal to build the facility is too wide a concept. According to the applicable law, it is permitted to carry out agricultural and other complementary activities which are not contrary to specific regulations, and only by the tenants, and not by third parties, to carry out the basic activity. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form and shall read as follows: Article 15, which is amended in Article 31, paragraphs 30, 31 and 32, shall be added. Article 30. The tenant may, in accordance with a valid spatial plan with the agreement of the ministry, set up a green energy generation infrastructure on the part of the leased state agricultural land for the purpose of increasing profitability. Article 31 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The design, construction and construction of infrastructure shall be carried out in accordance with legal conditions, in particular in the section relating to spatial planning, environmental protection and energy regulations. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104735	Who's going to show up? Comrade Kolarek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104736	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accept the amendment in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104737	14th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104738	The amendment is not accepted. It is the position of the proposer of the final draft law that the tender procedure for the lease is properly regulated in the final draft law in a way that will allow efficient and transparent availability and protection of agricultural land owned by the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104739	Since there are no MPs, we will vote on the amendment. 15 amendments, MP Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104740	The amendment is not accepted. The decision on the availability is not an administrative act. An unsatisfactory party may also object. Legal certainty is provided for in Article 38 of the applicable law, as the draft lease agreement must be delivered to the County State Attorney's Office for Agriculture before signing. If the County State Attorney's Office issues a negative opinion, the lease agreement cannot be concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104741	Here's your friend's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104742	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, this provision that you have just read and defended is still not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the Constitution says that the rule of law is the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, so our laws must be in accordance with the Constitution and the other regulations with both the Constitution and the Law. In addition, Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides that the Commission is to The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the judicial control of the legality of individual acts of administrative authorities and bodies having public authority. So this model does not guarantee our farmers by the Constitution guaranteed protection. So, maybe half a year ago, we had a similar situation when the Constitutional Court forced us to amend the Agriculture Act because certain provisions also hindered the right to judicial protection for farmers, and that was when it came to spending funds from European funds. However, I expect that when you vote this law that farmers will have to re-evaluation the constitutionality and legality of the provisions of this law and address the Constitutional Court again. I am sorry, but I must say that the European Union numbers over 500 million people and they all have the right to judicial protection, i.e. a concrete right to appeal. The Republic of Croatia has been in the process for many years, so for 30 years it has been in the game to prevent the right to protect our farmers. Is it strange, then, that our village is being destroyed, that people are deciding to leave this rural area and that we have a serious problem in food production? Thank you. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104743	All right. We are going to the 16th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104744	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's view is that financial data are an essential part of the economic programme needed to monitor the production and implementation of the land's economic programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104745	My friend, the Temple, you have to choose an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104746	The initiative of this law was not to eliminate these data in some way, but to simplify, given that most of the users of agricultural land owned by the state may not be valid, and it is very difficult to plan the costs of production in these conditions in which we live today. But come on, I want to believe that the ministry and all the control institutions will be tolerated given the situation we're in. I want to believe that he won't overrule, so I'm withdrawing this amendment and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104747	Thank you. 17th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104748	The amendment is not accepted. Article 30 of the applicable law lays down the content of the programme, the specific conditions where they are prescribed by an act implementing the eligibility assessment procedure for the ecological network and/or the conditions of nature protection, which are issued by the competent administrative department in the county, are prescribed in a public tender and are an integral part of the lease contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104749	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104750	Thank you. So by studying this proposal further, we realized that there is no evaluation of the economic programme as a paradox and the question is why is this document even called the economic programme. The existing rules on the economic programme are reduced to two articles and the very smooth pattern. The objective of the economic programme itself is not listed in the existing form as well as the provisions relating to environmental protection, and the reason for the termination of the lease agreement is if the tenant does not achieve the objectives of the economic programme. By supplementing the word with the objectives, i.e. only with the objectives, and we feel that further clarification is needed and that we are looking for a vote on the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104751	All right. 18th Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104752	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104753	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19. SDP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104754	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the Proposer is that it is not acceptable to propose a way of participating and fighting in a public lease tender because it enters into the content of other provisions of the law so that certain parts of the amendment are contrary to other provisions of the law and the final proposal of the law. The same content does not belong to the provisions of this article because other provisions stipulate who may be participants, i.e. who has the right to participate in a public tender for leases, and what is the content of the economic programme to be delivered with the offer in a public tender for lease. The position of the applicant in relation to the score of certain criteria for the exercise of the right of the public tender for the lease, that the point with the adoption of the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture is adequately regulated in the final proposal of the law in a way that will allow for the effective, transparent implementation of the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, and that the system of points is aimed at implementing the Agriculture Strategy, and that the highest points are given to food production, to increase added value in agricultural production, and the other strategic objectives aimed at the sustainability and development of rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104755	Here's an indication. Representative Vlašić Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104756	Thank you. We believe that this whole article should be organised, i.e. to be clarified in a way that proposes a score of the economic programme, as I have said in the previous explanation of the amendment. It is also necessary to evaluate the register of farmers or registers of agricultural holdings, and to deal with agriculture as the primary activity that we consider important. Article 7 proposes the development of an economic programme, and 7 points for young farmers and additional points for farmers due to the sustainable development of the UN and by 2030, and the EU's gender equality objectives. A reduction of points from 5 to 4 for education and experience in agriculture has been proposed, as well as a share of direct payments to the total incomes from agriculture due to the increase in points for young farmers from 5 to 7. In addition, we believe that the whole of Article 36, i.e. the provisions relating to points, should be laid down by the Government Regulation or regulation. Namely, the final proposal for an amendment states that the Minister will prescribe the procedure for public competition by regulation. The 2013 Agricultural Land Act The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on the pattern and method of evaluation of the economic programme for the use of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And let us note that there are no points for criteria as well as the evaluations of the economic programme in the sale of agricultural land owned by the State and the lease of ponds, although the bidders should deliver the document with an offer. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104757	20th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104758	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that the score is properly arranged in a way that will enable efficient and transparent implementation of the availability of agricultural land owned by the State and that the rating system is focused on the implementation of the agriculture strategy so that the most points are given to food production, to increase the added value of agricultural production, but not to neglect other strategic objectives. The producer organisations are a status which is particularly valuable within the common organisation of the market, and cooperatives are legal form. The legislation stipulates that producer organisations can also have different legal forms between them and the forms of cooperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104759	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104760	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, our amendment comes down to these two changes in the score. The first is the number of hectares under organic farming, and the second is the point of points specifically or explicitly mentioned agricultural cooperatives in the land law. As regards the number of hectares under organic farming, given that the agricultural strategy is well known by 2030, the aim is to increase the number of hectares under ecological farming to 140,000 hectares, which you all know very well, we thought that if I were to ask for it to increase from 5 points to 8 points in order not to disrupt the entire balance of this system of points, and that it would still make it possible for that increase by 2030. As far as agricultural cooperatives are concerned, the fact that they are not explicitly mentioned but that they are called producers of organisations recognised by the ministry, however, it is symbolic that you yourself say that there are insufficient agricultural cooperatives in Croatia. That's what they're talking about, and that they mean freedom of association, democratic governance, mutual action and a fair distribution of goods, I think that would contribute precisely to the fact that cooperatives are particularly explicitly said to add 5 points. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104761	21st Amendment, MP Marina Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104762	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the amended form. The amendment shall be partially accepted in such a way that the words of the related societies are replaced by the words of the related person in Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104763	Dear Representative Mandaric, do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104764	Consent with the amended amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104765	Okay, then he becomes such a modified component of the law. 22nd Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104766	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that the score is properly arranged in a way that will enable efficient and transparent implementation of the availability of agricultural land owned by the State and that the score system is aimed at implementing the agriculture strategy, so the highest points are given to food production and to increase additional value in agricultural production, but other strategic objectives are not ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104767	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104768	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In view of the EU's aims to increase areas under organic production to 25% of the area that Croatia is also obliged to monitor, I believe that organic production should be far more valued in the criteria for exercising the right to use state agricultural land. I believe that organic production should be equated with the priority types of agricultural production and carry 25 points. So in organic production, our agricultural future is, and this law needs to be properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104769	So that's what we're going to vote on. 23rd Amendment of MP Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104770	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is as in the previous amendment, and with the addition that the fulfilment of all contractual obligations involves controlling the fulfilment of the economic programme. The same shall be controlled through the control lists prescribed by the Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104771	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104772	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, so the proposed amendment above all asked that if a person who wishes to achieve the highest number of points based on that programme that she had already had and had had the advantage over the others he should prove that he had fulfilled his economic programme. In the ministry, we got the answer that they were controlled economic programs but only for those hectares that are more than 50, 50 liters. So, only in the area of my municipality do we have over 400 contracts that are below 50 hectares. Who controlled them? Why wasn't anyone controlling them? So they will regain their advantage, and they have not fulfilled what they promised 10 or 15 years ago. Other farmers watch this, especially those farmers who could not get into possession because someone with fake, not all of them, is someone with a false program in which he promised to, for example, deal with the production of milk as soon as he entered the possession of that cattle or never got it or sold it. It is not right and it is not fair to these because you have now had the opportunity to give these people who will be re-invited to their previous property and get the most points you could give them, or make them an obligation to prove that their current economic programs had been properly met. So, if we don't, if we leave the municipalities with the will to decide whether to call a tender, they won't, in which amount they'll put the maximum hectares or not at all determine them, then we don't have the right to appeal, so we don't control the current availability of agricultural land, so we don't know if the farmers they've paid for are very large numbers of questionnaires that we could have more concretely prescribed the land law, but here we don't. I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104773	24th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104774	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is at the level of the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104775	Agent Lenart's gone, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104776	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the promoter is that the determination of the initial lease and the procedure for the implementation of the public tender is properly regulated in the final proposal for a law in a way that will decide on the effective and transparent implementation of the availability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104777	On behalf of the club of representatives, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104778	The final proposal for amendments and additions shall be amended by the Art. In the 37rd century, new items are added to this proposal, which prescribe provisions concerning the possibility of objecting and cancelling tenders. This issue is not regulated in the current provisions as well as the proposed amendments, and we consider it very significant. If there is an objection to the draft management programme, the same procedure should be applied in this case. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104779	26th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104780	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's position is to draw up a lease contract containing cadastral particles which have been mined or on which irrigation systems as well as particles to be leased for a period of five years for the legal certainty of both Contracting Parties should be submitted to the preliminary opinion on the legal validity of the County State Attorney's Office in whose area agricultural land is located before the signing. In the case of a change in the contract or in case of a change in the information on a cadaster or land registers for agricultural land which is the subject of the lease as well as in the case of the determination of new facts relating to cadastral particles which constitute a production technological unit, the applicable law and the final proposal of the law are already laid down, and in these cases the annexes of the contract are concluded. The content of the proposed amendment has already been prescribed by the provisions of the applicable law and the provisions of the Article. 20th final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104781	In the name of the club, respected representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104782	Thank you. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104783	So the amendment was withdrawn 26. 27th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104784	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is to make provisions on the termination of the contract... to the final draft of the law in a way that will decide the effective and transparent implementation of the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104785	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104786	The final proposal to amend and supplement the law amends the Article. Paragraphs 4 and 9 are added to Article 7 of this proposal simplified by Article 9 as a result of clearer provisions, further proposed items which would define a higher power and action than that event. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104787	28th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104788	The amendment is not accepted. The legislator considers it to be an art. 43. century 9. of the applicable law, in more detail, the conduct of the local self-government unit in the event of termination or termination of the lease contract than proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104789	Honored representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104790	Thank you. So, all the amendments that I have submitted are essentially anti-corruption measures that are insufficient in the whole of the law. To begin with, it is apparent that the agricultural land owned by the state is managed and controlled by one ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, and all other state property is in the portfolio of another ministry. It is absurd and unambiguous that there are no public registers that would contain all the necessary information publicly available that the public can also control who is given agricultural land owned by the State for use, as the contracts, which are contained in them, what are the fees and if they are charged in time. This amendment actually repairs the puck made in some other provisions because you have created a system that has been cascaded by the Ministry of Agriculture and through units of local and regional self-government, you have made it in a way that does not know who is doing and who controls what, and then we have these situations that are being spoken of in our amendment by colleague Ruzica Vukovac. So for decades we've set the system to the wrong foundations, agricultural land should be a driver and a foundation of prosperity and development, and in fact it's only for different scavengers. Thank you. I'm staying with the amendment and I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104791	29th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104792	The amendment is not accepted. The legislator considers that the addition of the amendment text in accordance with the regulation adopted by the Minister, with the prior opinion of the Minister of Finance, is unnecessary and that it constitutes an additional administrative burden on the units of local and regional self-government units, as well as those ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104793	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104794	I don't accept this explanation. We believe that the existing provisions do not make it clear in which form the report is submitted and how more detailed provisions are prescribed regarding the implementation of the programme of use of funds, and for this reason we propose this supplement. A rule on the way and conditions of use of funds obtained from the lease and sale of land owned by the State was previously adopted, in which it is now regulated not clear from the provisions, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104795	The 30th Amendment of Representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104796	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that the distribution ratio of the available funds is set out in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104797	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104798	Thank you. If that's the case, then I'm withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104799	The amendment has been withdrawn. 31st Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104800	The amendment is not accepted. When the Ministry of Agriculture has agricultural land owned by the state instead of units of local self-government then and income from the availability of income from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104801	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104802	I'm glad you say so, and it seems to me that so far something little has been shared about these revenues to a little state, a little bit of someone else. And the biggest problem is who should have cared about the collection of that claim. You and now you have a system by which the State's Attorney's Office will be provided with information about who didn't pay, so we'll have a situation again that someone is enjoying agricultural land owned by the state not only for months but also years without being asked and not being checked because simply by reporting information to various bodies takes too long. So if you already wanted a new law then you should have done one operationally and rationally over-set model to know exactly whose singler it is to say so and who's killing the fee. And like this, where you're going to have thousands of fragmented bodies telling each other who paid for something, who didn't, and then someone there to the State's Attorney's office, and especially at lower levels. It will not all go from Zagreb, but will go where the real estate is located we will come back to the fact that someone is enjoying our country, but it does not pay any forced collection unlike those situations where the state shows its boot to ordinary citizens. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104803	32nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104804	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft of the law provides for the harmonisation of the amount of the lease in the future to be higher in order to preserve the value of agricultural land, and the expression of compliance with the level of the lease does not correspond to the content of the provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104805	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104806	We don't accept the argument, because we think that setting the lease's height in such a way is just no longer the right alignment. Only after the establishment of the contract and the collection will it be possible to carry out the coordination process and to establish for a particular area whether higher leases were paid for certain contracts than other contracts and to carry out the additions of those contracts. After that, the records should be made public in order to have insight into the borrowing debt and the contracts awarded at national level. It is also worrying that, in the past four years since the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act, it has not been done and as pointed out by the State Audit Office in its 2021 report, these amendments have been proposed in order to comply with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104807	33rd Amendment of Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104808	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that the provision of Article 25(5) is regulated in the final draft of the law in such a way as to enable the competent State Attorney to initiate the procedure for the payment of the due debt in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104809	Thank you. Unfortunately, they won't. So, all of these amendments are actually an attempt to fix something that is originally poorly drawn up by the promoter. There's no progress without introducing a state of order. The State of Order shall include, among other things, the public registers it keeps talking about. It is also necessary to establish a single publicly available register in relation to agricultural land owned by the State, together with information on who uses this property and the property together with information on when and in what amount all the contributions are charged, i.e. all the fees prescribed. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. There is no idea about any proposal, or in any provision under the new law, and without doing so, nor will the citizens be able to benefit from whether the state is doing what should be done, nor do I see that the State's attorney will have some kind of reviewed and easily available system from which the data will be able to draw data on which person the forced collection procedure should be initiated. You're just the one who said there's a better designed mechanism in some other provision. Unfortunately, there is no mechanism at the level of the whole law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104810	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104811	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104812	34th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104813	The amendment is not accepted. The method for the introduction of the fishing register is laid down in the Regulation on the way in which the fish register is kept owned by the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted pursuant to Article 51(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. The law on agricultural land, and the manner of publication, does not need to be prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104814	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104815	I accept the argument and ask for a vote on the amendment, because in fact all records, registers related to state agricultural land should be available on the Ministry's website and we believe that this is in the interest of strengthening the transparency of the system and we are looking for a vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104816	25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives, apology of the 35th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104817	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104818	It's becoming an integral part. The 36th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104819	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that the criteria in the public tender for the lease of ponds are appropriate in a certain final draft law in a way that will enable efficient and transparent implementation and availability of fishers owned by the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104820	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić. 36th, your 35th has been accepted. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104821	So, here's the deal. In fact, we do not accept an explanation, and we believe that it is necessary to score in a different way, where we propose actually a score for 20 points so far and for the economic programme 80 points. In addition, more detailed criteria for the evaluation of the economic programme as well as for the lease of agricultural land owned by the State are proposed. What confuses the actual reason for eradicating point (b) of paragraph 2 where a valid criterion relating to the activities of aqua culture is proposed, so we ask for a vote on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104822	37th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104823	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the legislator is that the availability of common pastures is adequately regulated in the final draft of the law in such a way as to enable the effective and transparent implementation of tenders for the lease of common pastures owned by the State and that the provisions on public tender law are aimed at increasing agricultural production and creating added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104824	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104825	We're not accepting an explanation and we're asking for a vote on this amendment. In fact, this proposal divides the article into two parts in which the general competition provisions would be laid down in the first part, and in the second part a public tender procedure would be prescribed. It is proposed that paragraph 3 be divided into two paragraphs and that, in the areas of the units of local self-government or the City of Zagreb, the provisions are simplified because they are repeated and should be deleted. It is also necessary to propose, in paragraph 7, the addition of point 5(2) to the register of family holdings, because this is in line with our earlier proposal and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104826	38th Amendment of Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104827	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the proposer is that the lease procedure for common pastures is properly regulated in the final draft of the law in a way that will allow for efficient and transparent implementation of the availability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104828	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104829	Thank you. So from your explanation why you don't accept this amendment, nothing is really clear. What is effective for you and what is transparent for you? What is the problem of making it clear what are the powers and also the obligations of the representative body of citizens. Now that you've come up with that in my opinion, it's clear to me that maybe I don't need to and I don't support absolute centralization, so we've had examples like that, so we've seen that it wasn't good. I am for the system to be decentralised and relaxed, but then in that case, that procedure must be effective and clear. And it must be known who it is that decides something and how a wider community is involved in the decision-making process, as well as the people living in that area. There's no such thing in this law. And when you don't know who decides, and when you don't know how to decide, it means there won't be a control system, and that's the one where this country keeps falling over and over again. Thank you. I'm asking you to take a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104830	39th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104831	The amendment is not accepted. The final proposal for a law is deleted from the provision of Article 57 and temporary use contracts cannot be concluded anymore. The problem of using particles will be resolved through the Agricultural Land and ARCOD Registration Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104832	Dear representative Jeckov on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104833	Thank you. With this amendment, in fact, given that the process of parceling cadastral particles of long-term character with this amendment, we actually wanted to regulate the right to use land to land the opening of tenders and then to enter into leases and sell state agricultural land. With that in mind, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104834	The 40th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104835	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104836	It becomes an integral part of the law. 41st Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104837	The amendment is accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104838	The 42nd amendment of MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104839	The amendment is not accepted. Agricultural land is a resource that is limited and by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Agricultural Land defined as good of interest for Croatia and has its special protection. The position of the legislator is that the right of first purchase is properly regulated by the draft final draft law in a way that will allow for its protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104840	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104841	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, so the amendment to Article 71 in this way indicates that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first in anything and even on private land. I suggest that it be made clear how this article applies exclusively to that land previously owned by the Republic of Croatia, so it is sold. It is thus also defined in the existing Land Act but those provisions were not applicable. Why do the provisions of the law which is valid and which is in force not apply? I can also pull the parallel with the design of the available program where we have 450 units of local self-government that were obliged to make their own available programs. For 2.5 years, that law has been in force only 90 municipalities have done it. Why? Where are the sanctions? Who answered? I find the system completely non-transparent, and I also think it's wrong to bring this kind of change between the two readings. I don't think the law office would agree with that either, but neither would the Commissioner of Information. So this is an important change that should have gone to at least e-consultation, and perhaps to the assessment of constitutionality. That didn't happen. It is equally not clear to me that the Republic of Croatia has over 1/3 surfaces, so we are talking about agricultural land in its possession. No EU member state has that much land in its possession. This provision will allow the state to move more surfaces instead of deploying them to our farmers, our OPGs so that they can produce food, live, create, stay in that rural space. So we are a Member State that is constantly going in the opposite direction to those developed EU member states that have preserved their agricultural production and their man in the rural area. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104842	43rd Amendment of Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104843	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the amended form. The amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that reads. In Article 40, point (c) is deleted and point (e) is added which reads. For the cadastral particle which is co-owned by the Republic of Croatia and the applicant, the total surface area of the particle shall not exceed 1 hectare. The position of the legislator is to sell agricultural land owned by the State through a public tender only by an extremely direct contract, and only in cases prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104844	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104845	I accept the amendment in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104846	Therefore, the amendment in the amended form is accepted. 44th Amendment of Representative Silvan Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104847	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the proposer is that the co-ownership community between the Republic of Croatia and third parties on agricultural land can be broken down by payment when the co-owner's part of the Republic of Croatia is less than 50% of the total area covered by the breakdown.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104848	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104849	This is a particular problem, namely, the problem of dead capital, i.e. the abandonment of the co-owned agricultural land. I've met with a situation where at 8,000 squares you have 709 out of 804 shares of RH. After all, no one is doing anything, therefore, I think that, either from the money that will be settled or supplied by the sale of agricultural land, finance the decomposition or division of that agricultural land from other co-owners and what is owned by the Republic of Croatia and try to sell or rent long-term interested farmers. There is, there is a lot of it and there is a big mess, especially in the area where I live, in the coastal area where there are a lot of small, lots of small particles owned by the Republic of Croatia or in this kind of co-ownership. I think there's one extraordinary activity that's not free. To understand, which costs, to distinguish those shares that are pure state from those that are co-ownership, costs, but I think it's worth the effort because it's staring at a lot of agricultural land unprocessed, and units of local self-government like the colleague said, they don't have any particular interest in making a plan available with such small parcels. Thank you very much for understanding, I withdraw this amendment, but I was obliged to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104850	The amendment has therefore been withdrawn. The 45th Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104851	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 44 century 4 is changed and it is said: Agricultural land outside the construction area cannot be divided into a cadastrian particle of less than 1 hectare, except in the case of the separation of agricultural land for the construction of infrastructure and other structures that are regulated by a spatial arrangement and except in the case of inheritance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104852	On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Honorable Representative Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104853	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Committee on Agriculture accepts such an amendment in a changed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104854	It becomes an integral part of the law. 46th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104855	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the Proposer is that it is not necessary to supplement the provision of words, whether it is state or private, since agricultural land is pronounced as indicated in the provision. 44 of the final bill refers to all agricultural land, both state and private property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104856	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104857	Thank you. We do not accept the explanation for the reason that in the original article. 83 The Agricultural Land Act all items to the new proposed section 4 relate to state-owned land owned by the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the allocation of this text would avoid the possibility of a dual interpretation of the article itself, so if the law's intensities really are to prohibit the lotion of both private and state land and private and state land, we consider it necessary to place this article in order to avoid the possible future credible interpretation of the article on this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104858	Are you asking for a vote? ... Now we've got an art. 47, 48, 49 which are identical content. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all. 47. SDP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104859	The amendment is not accepted. The purpose of the provision is to prevent deforestation of agricultural land as good for the Republic of Croatia. The importance of the Law is that the areas of agricultural land are surrounded to create conditions for more efficient processing and increase production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104860	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104861	We do not accept the argument because these provisions will result in, in fact, the resolution of property-legal relations on all particles, and those areas less than 1 hectares. It should also be noted that the provisions will ensure that official state records, catastras and land books are kept up to date, which we consider to be one of the preconditions for their use. Since there are already mechanisms available in the Republic of Croatia for the control of illegal construction, construction inspection and municipal directors, we believe that this amendment will not significantly affect this problem and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104862	48th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia, identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104863	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104864	In the name of the club, respected representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104865	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, so we, by our amendment, as well as our colleagues, asked to be joined. 44 wipes. So this amendment takes place in Art. 44 to which Art. 44 has been changed. 83 Law No. 4 is therefore deleted in order to allow for the division and formation of cadastrian particles of surfaces and less than one hectare, so the Republic of Croatia is greatly depreciated, but we cannot make it impossible to do so by law because it will primarily endanger property-legal settlement, for example, here, primarily hereditary relations. How do we divide brothers who have equal rights or sisters on a specific land, if we do this? So we're going to bring in a new injustice and we're going to oppose it. So there are other ways, other options, not banning. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104866	Identical 49th Amendment of MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104867	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as well as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104868	Dear Representative Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104869	Here, I won't repeat the reasons for the amendments we've heard since it's the exact same amendment. I would just like to further emphasise that the amendment, which over 3 different clubs have directed by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, is therefore a professional association of people who in practice know what is the best way to apply the relevant legal solutions here with agricultural land, of course we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104870	50th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104871	The amendment is not accepted. Due to the inability of certain units of local self-government to hire a agricultural director, it is possible for local self-government units to perform the work of agricultural directors and an employee who is already employed in a local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104872	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104873	We don't accept the explanation. We propose holding items 2, 3 and 4 in Art. 90 because this is how you actually respect the agronomic profession. Agricultural monks were introduced by the 2013 Agricultural Land Act for the control of abandoned private agricultural land, i.e. control of the implementation of agritechnical measures by natural and legal persons. The system has been functioning for almost 10 years and has allowed units of local self-government to jointly employ the agricultural director of the agronomic profession and in a quality way to report on the state of agricultural land in their area. It is now proposed, in fact, by amending paragraphs 1, 3 and 4, that the agricultural director be an official, and the agronomic profession is deleted as a condition of employment. It is also proposed to abolish the possibility that local self-government units jointly organise these tasks. We believe that this is not in the interest of local self-government units, nor in the final, permanent users, or farmers, and also, we believe that the agronomic profession is being kicked out of almost all laws prepared by the Resort Ministry. Let us object to the amendment of the article. 90 and we demand that it remain unchanged and therefore we ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104874	51st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104875	The amendment is not accepted. Agricultural land users are obliged to submit reports on the implementation of the economic programme and under the applicable law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104876	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104877	We do not accept the argument because, essentially, this proposal adds paragraph 10 in order to more clearly determine the infringement provisions relating to Articles 7, 8 and 9, i.e. fines if the user does not submit a report on the achievement or fulfilment of the objectives of the economic programme each year. The provisions under which the economic programme should be contained and the objectives are not prescribed under the applicable provisions of the law and are not proposed by a final proposal to amend this Act. In order to make this provision clear, we have proposed the addition of Article 6. 35. We note that the failure to meet the objectives of the economic programme, as we have heard earlier, is the reason for the termination of the contract. In addition, the existing regulation on the economic programme prescribes only its form, but not the form of the report. For this reason, we have proposed a supplement to the article. The 38th century 8th century. This is another example of how this Law on Agricultural Land was actually prepared, but also this Final Proposal, in fact, provisions and fines that are not enforceable are prescribed, so we believe that we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104878	Amendment 52 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104879	The amendment is not accepted. The start of the lease and sale procedures for agricultural land owned by the State will be completed under the provisions of the law under which they are to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104880	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104881	This proposal proposes to suspend all procedures until amendments and amendments to the laws and the adoption of sublegal acts which clearly prescribe criteria for the lease of agricultural land. A number of arguments have already been made and we do not think that it is necessary and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104882	53rd Amendment and 54th are identical. 53. The Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104883	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104884	It's becoming an integral part. The 54th Amendment means the same acceptance SDP counseling club. [[Intruder: The amendment is also accepted.]] Okay. 55th Amendment of Representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104885	The amendment shall be accepted in part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 55 seconds 5 and 6, word three, changing in word six. The amendment shall not be accepted in part to extend the time limit for the adoption of the available programme and to extend the time limit for tendering for land covered by the expired temporary use contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104886	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104887	Consent with the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104888	It becomes an integral part of such a change. The 56th Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104889	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation of compensation for the seized agricultural land was prescribed by the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. Each unit of local self-government shall provide areas for the return to the availability programme, for its area on the basis of an indication of the competent administrative authority, and the possibility of a return to other units of local self-government having a consequence of the uncertainty at its disposal and of the problem in the implementation of the recovery procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104890	On behalf of the Committee, the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104891	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee has agreed to withdraw this amendment, but we are asking that the return processes of the seized property at the time of the communist rule accelerate slightly because it seems to us that this is really taking too long. So the amendment retreats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104892	The amendment is therefore withdrawn. 57th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104893	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104894	It becomes an integral part of the law. 58th Amendment of the National Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104895	The amendment is not accepted. An amendment to the SDP Club of Representatives which the subject of the replacement agricultural land may be combined and arrondated areas of agricultural land, unless the production and technology unit is disrupted by their allocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104896	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected representative Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104897	As we have just heard, this law needs to be brought into line with the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. It is basically a restrictive law, and these provisions further strengthen its restrictive provisions aimed at the permanent legislation of the communist kidnapping of private property is specifically about agricultural land. Namely, it is completely unclear, regardless of your current explanation why this provision was found in the final legislative proposal, why is this additional restriction since this provision has not been amended so far? So, it is contrary to the government's rules so far, if you want and decisions of the Constitutional Court and in practice, the restitution authorities will find themselves in a discriminatory relationship with those who have been allowed to replace the land and without this restriction that remains in the legislative proposal. And I don't accept this argument and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104898	59th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104899	The amendment is not accepted. Amendment No. 57 in which the subject-matter of the replacement agricultural land may be combined and arrondated areas of agricultural land unless the production technology as a whole would be disrupted by their allocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104900	Dear Representative Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104901	Thank you very much. It's actually about the same amendment. At first glance, this provision is abolished, but by introducing this completely unclear provision on whether certain relationships are not being violated, it is not clear who will determine it. In practice, the possibility of assigning replacement land will become completely unimplementable. I remind you, therefore, that these areas should be replaced by less than 2% of the total state agricultural land. I don't accept the argument and ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104902	The 60th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104903	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104904	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 61st Amendment of MPs Ljubomir Kolarek and Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104905	The amendment is not accepted. The charter of the pond is... available and is not subject to the provisions of the article. 57th century 5, which refers to the lease of agricultural land to be leased for the purpose of growing fish and other aquatic organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104906	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104907	We're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104908	The 61st Amendment has therefore been withdrawn. The 62nd amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104909	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104910	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 63rd amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104911	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u104912	It becomes an integral part of the law. This ended the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Now we're going to take a short break to 12 or 30. MEETING AT 12:23 P.M. We will now go to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, second reading, P.Z. Number 235. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The Social Democrats' club proposed to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that read. Final Bill of Law One, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, P.Z. Number 235 is referred to in the third reading. Two, it is up to the applicant to consider any objections, proposals, opinions raised in the debate in order to draw up a final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to state the proposed conclusion, Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105628	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs, the conclusion is not accepted. The amendments relating to the differences between the two readings are the result of discussions in the Croatian Parliament and are aimed at improving the text of the law. For the same reasons, the applicant also amended the provisions of the final draft law concerning the way in which the DPS was accessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105629	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, I can see there's no one here, so we're gonna have to vote on that. We now move to a statement on the amendments, and the amendments were submitted by MP Marija Selak Rasdic, the Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia, MP Dalia Oreskovic, the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Katarina Peović, representative Dario Zurovec, SDP Representatives' Club, Green-left Block Club, Centre and GLAS. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Re-respected Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak. First of all, the 1st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105630	It's unacceptable. There is no obstacle to co-financing of the proposed programmes, which can be decided by the unit of local and regional self-government depending on its financial opportunities and there is no need to prescribe such an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105631	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105632	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State would take this explanation of the amendment as an opportunity to remind you once again that this is actually the fourth attempt to amend the law itself that has nothing to do with what the profession has proposed, with what the working group has proposed. You yourself are aware that in these amendments of the law there are really items that can be said and illegal, you are solving the school teacher's surplus by retraining which is not legal, which is not in line with the Croatian qualification framework. In fact, you are aware that these amendments to the law go exclusively to pursue the Brussels figures so that you can reach the inclusion of children in early preschool education and education by 2030 because you have committed yourself to Brussels since only 83% of children in Croatia are included in the same, and I am not talking about geographical inaccessibility when, for example, 19% of children go to kindergarten in Brod-Posavia County while in my Istrian County this figure is far, far greater. What we want to do with this amendment is to open up the possibility of co-financing of specific programmes outside a particular unit of local self-government just to increase the availability of these programmes themselves, but also what we would like to point out, is that the entire system of early pre-school education is resting on the enthusiasm of educators and other employees in that system, in fact, and on the overall financing of units of local self-government, which we find absolutely wrong. I thank you and ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105633	Second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105634	It is not accepted, there is no obstacle to co-financing of the proposed programmes, which can be decided by the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government depending on its financial opportunities, and there is no need to prescribe such a obligation. So the explanation is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105635	In the name of the club, respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105636	So here I join all these clubs that actually submit the amendments proposed by the profession, so we also say that Article 2 should add an article that would allow units of local self-government to have the possibility to co-finance specific programmes and to reduce the availability gaps of these programmes. So here we are, staying on our amendment and looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105637	The third amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105638	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation. There is no obstacle to co-financing of the proposed programmes, which can be decided by the local and regional (regional) self-government units depending on their financial opportunities, and there is no need to prescribe such an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105639	Representative Selak Rasdic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. 4th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105640	It's unacceptable. Each institution may only have one director, so it is not necessary to prescribe their number with DPS. The preschool structure prescribed by the DPS does not allow for the longer duration of the programme, and is therefore proposed to delete that point and will be regulated by the national preschool curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105641	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105642	Thank you. We remain, of course, on our amendment, asking for the same vote and for a request and we believe that point 9 of Article 6, paragraph 2, of the applicable law should remain unchanged. I will also remind you that not once in the Croatian Parliament, which is a legal obligation has been submitted an annual report on the state pedagogical standard. This way I urge you to appeal as a resolute ministry to start implementing legal and sublegal regulations, and we therefore do not want in any way these legislative amendments to reduce the importance and value of the state pedagogical standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105643	Fifth amendment. You're looking for a vote, aren't you? Fifth Amendment to the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105644	It's unacceptable. Each institution may only have one director, so it is not necessary to prescribe their number with DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105645	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105646	Here is the same amendment as before, and we remain here to ask for a vote on that amendment. I say here are a whole series of amendments from this to the next one is actually an amendment to all that the profession has proposed to this law in order to ensure the best access and expansion of actually the availability of preschool education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105647	Sixth Amendment to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105648	It's unacceptable. The structure of preschool is prescribed by the provisions of the DPS. It does not allow for longer duration of the programme, and is therefore proposed to delete that point, and the national curricula of preschool will be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105649	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105650	So now it's quite simple. We believe that it is the same more important element of the system in order to leave it at the level of defining the level of the correct level of definition. Therefore, we are aware of the existence of a Regulation on special standards for the achievement of pre-school education and pre-school care programmes. But we still think that the preschool structure should remain defined by the state pedagogical standard. So we stay with our amendment proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105651	The seventh amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105652	It's unacceptable. The structure of preschool is prescribed by the provisions of the DPS does not allow for longer duration of the programme, and is therefore proposed to delete that point and will be regulated by the National Preschool Curricula. Each institution may only have one director, so it is not necessary to prescribe their number with DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105653	There's no representative of the club, so we're gonna have to vote on that. The eighth amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105654	It's not accepted with the same explanation. The structure of preschool is prescribed by the provisions of the DPS, does not allow for longer duration of the programme and is therefore proposed to delete that point and will be regulated by the National Preschool Curricula. Each institution may only have one director, so it is not necessary to prescribe their number with DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105655	Dear MPs, Selak Rasdic is gone, so we'll have to vote on that. 9th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105656	It's unacceptable. The structure of preschool is prescribed by the provisions of the DPS, does not allow for longer duration of the programme and is therefore proposed to delete that point. The same will be arranged for the national preschool curricula. Each institution may only have one director, so it is not necessary to prescribe their number with DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105657	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105658	Thank you. I insist on this amendment and we will ask for a vote. What is required here is in accordance with many of the amendments that we have made here and which will be presented by other MPs and MPs who come from organisations that are extremely unhappy with this law and I will only say that our dissatisfaction here will be very clearly articulated, and regarding the only explanation that you have given for your changes to this law, where it is said that by 2030, the decline of the number of preschool children is predicted by 15%, which should reduce the challenge of reaching a hundred percent preschool entry. I think that sentence is a suma sumarum of your entire proposal, or you use the depopulation as a positive measure, as a positive argument for what you achieve as a 100% standard. And you can see very well, very well, it was located by the associations. In this particular amendment, we ask you to stick to the DPS, therefore to the state pedagogical standard, which is also a document that these associations feel should not in any way reduce its importance, and this is exactly what these legal proposals do. We are therefore asking here that, in accordance with the opinion of relevant organisations in the field of pre-school education, point 9 of Article 6(1) of the applicable law should remain unchanged precisely in order to comply with the national pedagogical standard or the law so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105659	10th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105660	It's unacceptable. Adding the proposed criteria such as the number of children of educational groups and educators is not acceptable because data are often changed and would propose additional obligations to units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105661	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105662	Thank you. So let me remind you, the meaning of our amendment was in the proposal to end up being a member. 14. add the following sentence, in the previous century 4, which is now the 6th century, the sentence of the children's kindergarten network must contain data on the number and type of early and pre-school education programmes and on the number of children involved in these programmes, on the number and degree of education of teachers, and on the number of children outside the early and pre-school education and education systems in a particular area, or on the needs of citizens of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Of course, the data about this is dynamically changing, but we do not think that it is particularly a big problem for them to be updated, and we think it is necessary to add these provisions as we have proposed them on public availability and transparency, so that will help the public availability and transparency of the children's kindergarten network, so we remain with our proposal and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105663	Amendments 11, 12, 13 and 14 are identical, so first amendment 11. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105664	It's not accepted with the same explanation. Adding the proposed criteria such as the number of children in educational groups and educators is not acceptable because data are often changed, and would suggest creating additional obligations to units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105665	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105666	Here's the man I'm asking for, we're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on him. It is particularly unacceptable in the 21st century to say that something too often changes and that it cannot then be in the network, there cannot be accurate data, for example. on the number of children involved in programmes, number and degree and type of education of teachers, the number of children outside the system, etc., so in the 21st century that network must be publicly available, must be on some websites and must be updated without delay and contain all this information. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105667	You're looking for a vote, right? Okay. This 12th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105668	I'm sorry, can I just explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105670	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105671	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105672	I would only if I could...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105673	Just let us take the turn, yeah, say the first representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105674	The 12th amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105675	Thank you. It was the Advocacy Club for the Righteous Croatia, they are not here, so we will have to vote on it. 13th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105676	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105677	We're going to have to vote on that because there's no honourable MPs here. 14th Amendment of Representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105678	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105679	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105680	Thank you. I'm just going to add meaning to what's already been said here. Which can at all be an argument and the motive of the legislator to refuse spotless update of the network and data in that network, means data on the number of children included in the programmes, on the degree and type of education of the educators, the number of children outside the RPO system, etc., so I'm afraid, I'm going to be malignancies, and say that what is very important here is, so it may be malignant that it is because, in fact, it is not really a question of what this law has to do with its tendency, and that it is a threat and a state pedagogical standard, but also a threat to the profession, because we will see it in later amendments that are actually motives of this law to degrade the profession and that the profession should be reduced to one very ungrateful activity of children, because they are, as well as it is said aunts in kindergarten, they do not have any qualifications, I mean that the law, it is not, it is not, so they are not, they are not, so they have to have to their high qualifications, they have to their qualifications, and they have to their qualifications, they have a high qualifications. This law doesn't recognise them, and I'm afraid that hiding the data is really what my colleague Puljak said can update, so on a daily basis, if we're going to be entitled to technology with that motive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105681	Of course we'll vote on that. 15th Amendment of Representative Dario Zurovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105682	It's unacceptable. In kindergartens, it is necessary by law to ensure the possibility of conducting experimental programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105683	Dear Representative Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105684	Here's a thank you. Amendments to Art. 1 proposed 15. It is prescribed that the education and education of children of early and pre-school age is achieved on the basis of the national curricula for early and pre-school education and education and curricula of kindergarten, while section 4 provides for the national curricula and the framework national curricula to be made by the minister responsible for education by decision. It is evident that the 10th century is not prescribed at all, which means experimental curricula, nor who puts it together and brings it together, but only that it can be implemented with the consent of the Ministry of Education. It is therefore evident that it is not brought by the minister responsible for education but only gives consent to the same, but the text of the law still does not show who is really bringing it and submitting it to the ministry for consent. The proposed formulation is the opposite of Art. 3. 3. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Following Child, States Parties will ensure that the services and institutions responsible for the care or protection of children are under professional supervision and that they comply with the standards of the competent authorities, in particular on the issue of safety, health, as well as the number and expertise of staff. Since in this case no supervision or compliance with the standards of the competent authorities is envisaged, but something experimental that is not known who makes such a curricula, the same is at least questionable. Generally, curricula and serve to improve the quality of educational work and is considered to be the responsibility of the Minister of Education to establish everything mentioned in the national and framework national curricula without the need for interventions in the form of experimental curricula. The comparisons work, experimental program is signed by art. 29 Laws on education and education in primary and secondary schools, which accurately and precisely define how such an experimental programme can be proposed by the school institution, the ministry, the education agency or other institution in the education and education system. It shall also specify the procedure for the adoption, approval and implementation of such a programme, which in this proposal amends and complements The law... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105685	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruder: I'll ask for a vote.]] 16th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105686	It's unacceptable. The way in which children are enrolled in kindergartens is governed by the founder of kindergartens on the basis of the unique criteria prescribed by law, where the law does not determine the order of criteria on which the right of advantage is exercised. In this way, each founder determines the way, which is adapted to the best interests of the children of his territory. The name in the law is consistent with the DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105687	Dear Representative Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105688	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105689	So the amendment has been withdrawn. The 17th, 18th and 19th amendments are identical. 17th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105690	It's unacceptable. The method of prescribing the advantage of enrolment in kindergarten is in the authority of the founder for the reason that each founder can thus determine a way that is adapted to the best interests of the children of his area. The electronic register already exists in accordance with Article. 1a The law and composition of members of the expert commission for the implementation of the initial discussion is prescribed by the DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105691	On behalf of the club, respected representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105692	Thank you. It's just teaching what I mentioned earlier, that there's a different geographical inaccessibility. We have different statistical indicators, so in Slavonia we have only 18% of children attending early preschool education in some counties. We ask that it be not in the very jurisdiction of the founders that they can strictly prescribe ways of enrolment, conditions and requirements because we believe that this can lead to certain discrimination. On the other hand, regarding the establishment of e-Wrtic, yes, it is in the law, however, with different founders that respects it. What we are asking for in this amendment is that it is strictly prescribed that in the next 2 years since the adoption of legal amendments, this will be established for all institutions in the field of early pre-school education. And we're asking for an amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105693	18. An identical amendment to the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105694	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105695	We have to vote on him then because he doesn't have a club representative. 19th Amendment of MP Katarina Peović, identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105696	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105697	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105698	Okay. So I don't accept that argument that every founder decides best on criteria, I think that's your answer at the level of what, in Seget Donji means the founder can decide that the criteria are the Middle Ages, and Zagreb can decide that the criteria are the 21st century. I mean, I'm, uh, But it is important to level the criteria and to level the criteria for equating righteousness. Each child must have equal rights in preschool education and education itself, so it is necessary to define the ways, conditions and requirements for enrolment of children in kindergartens, which will not lead to differences depending on where the child is born, but will provide uniform conditions for children when enroling in preschool institutions. So, also, here we asked that the initial conversation should be mandatory. The law is, therefore, the possibility of conducting an initial conversation with parents and a child before enrolment, but professional associations, so they believe that the initial conversation should be mandatory. They agree that it is carried out by a descriptive committee composed of experts of which one of the members of the commission must necessarily be a raiser. You too, Art. The 20th century 8 speaks of how entries can be implemented electronically, since such registration is increasingly common and that the Ministry has already announced the establishment of e-Vrtic, it is proposed that electronic entries are made available in all areas of the Republic of Croatia over a period of 2 years and that this is clearly defined by this Act. I'll ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105699	20th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105700	It's unacceptable. The same explanation. So the method of prescribing the advantage of enrolment in kindergarten is in the authority of the founder for the reason that each founder can thus determine a way that is adapted to the best interests of the children of his area. The electronic register already exists in accordance with Article. 1a The law and composition of members of the expert commission for the implementation of the initial discussion is prescribed by the DPS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105701	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105702	Reasons are not accepted. Of course they will be asked to vote on that amendment. I must introduce my disappointment, we were hoping that this law would go into third reading and that some of the amendments could be respected. Until then, given the high criticism of the profession and the breeders who came from all over Croatia. However, this is not the case, we are here carrying out this performance vote on amendments that have been rejected in advance, and although there is nothing that can convince you about it, I believe that the regulation on enrolment and criteria needed for children to go to kindergarten is very poorly regulated. This amendment was supposed to go towards fixing it, and electronic enrolments themselves say nothing about who and on which points and according to which rank they can go to kindergartens at all. Of course, in the Republic of Croatia, according to the Constitution that we must all respect, all children should have equal rights and none should be discriminated against or by different criteria entered in kindergarten, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105703	21st Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105704	It's unacceptable. The method of prescribing the advantage of enrolment in kindergarten is in the authority of the founder for the reason that each founder can thus determine a way that is adapted to the best interests of the children of his area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105705	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105706	Thank you. Well, neither do we accept your argument with all that my colleagues have said before in their explanation. I will also point out once again that as you propose each founder, so each founder in this way comes to be able to make great differences in the treatment of children and parents. This proposal of yours opens up, a large space of possible discrimination and possible abuses is clearly opened. We're staying with our proposal. I'm asking you to vote for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105707	22nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105708	It's unacceptable. The composition of the members of the Professional Commission for the implementation of the initial discussion is prescribed by the state pedagogical standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105709	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105710	Thank you very much. I won't be long, but I'll point out one more time. We believe that this initial conversation is mandatory, that it should be made mandatory. We also believe that at least one member of the commission is adequately qualified. We stay on our proposal, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105711	23rd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105712	It's unacceptable. The electronic register already exists in accordance with Article 1a of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105713	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105714	Once again repeating or joining the argument of colleagues before me, I will therefore join their arguments, their views, and I will also point out once again that we believe it is important that electronic entries are made possible in all areas of the Republic of Croatia and that this is clearly made possible by this law. We're staying on the amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105715	24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105716	The composition of the members of the expert commission for the implementation of the initial discussion prescribed by the state pedagogical standard is not accepted, and the electronic register already exists in accordance with Article 1a. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105717	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105718	Here's a thank you. Well, I'm asking you to vote on the amendment. We're keeping, therefore, this amendment, we disagree with your argument. But I'd take the opportunity here now and whether when you received this amount of amendment and when you saw that 4, 5, 6 clubs submitted one of those same amendments, did you get a little bit in your head, so maybe there's something here, maybe we should take some. I don't know, but here we are right here, four, five clubs repeat, you repeat the same argument, we repeat the same argument, we don't accept, we ask for a vote. We'll spend time there and vote. Do either of you know maybe not you, because maybe you don't agree with anyone in that ministry, so I think why this amount of people, so these are all amendments to these associations, educators, people in the profession. He's a supporter from all kinds of clubs, so maybe there's something there, but no. It's stronger what 77 hands are stronger, someone has ordered from above to tear this whole thing down. I don't know, so I'm looking, every time I start to say look, and now I'm going to say both at the beginning and finally ask to vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105719	25th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105720	It is not accepted that the Director may be a person who fulfils the conditions for an educator or an expert associate, and may also be a member of the expert commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105721	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105722	Thank you. All my amendments refer to how the root system is. When the system is impeccable, it's corrupt and its implementation. With this amendment, we also wanted to remove the principal from the children's kindergarten expert commission. We know that he has references to do his jobs, but we want to remove him from the expert commission in order to reduce his influence on the decision to enrol children in kindergarten. In practice, the decision to enrol in kindergarten has been abused for purposes for which it should not. The assessment of the child’s willingness and ability to enrol in kindergarten should be based on professional staff, as this achieves greater independence in the assessment and objectivity and evaluation. The amendment also defines that members of the expert commission of kindergarten are appointed by the Administrative Council. In the current law, you have remained completely, completely unsettled, and in this way the power of decision is distributed and a better balance is achieved in the division of powers and responsibilities in fulfilling public tasks, and what you have set out is the system we have so far, which is that with a network of public kindergartens owned by cities and municipalities creates a single network of clientelism and nepotism, a mini corruption which is precisely because it is so visible at that mini level becomes almost inexhaustible. If we need a connection to enroll children in kindergarten because they are insufficient and then we realize that connection through the director, there is simply no chance of survival and survival. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105723	The 26th, 27th, 28th and 29th amendments are identical, so we're on our way. 26. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105724	It's unacceptable. As provided for in Article 23(2) of the Law, early and pre-school education programmes may be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this law and the national pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, and in paragraph 4 of this Article, the specific conditions and criteria for the implementation of the programme referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for education without the need to add the proposed text.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105725	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105726	Thank you. We believe that this provision should be put into law because we are witnessing that today in all early preschool and education educational institutions are catastrophic material and humane conditions. Literally, parents finance paper towels, wet wipes and all other accessories that should be included already in the price they pay. But less important. What I want to emphasize here. We believe that if the unit of local self-government and the founder does not have an established pre-school facility, for example, pre-school programmes can be implemented in primary schools. However, only if there are all material personnel and other preconditions. I will remind you once again that this entire system is currently resting on the enthusiasm of the educator, other staff in the system, that our educators are among the most educated in the EU, while at the same time being among the least paid. We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105727	It is identical to the 27th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105728	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105729	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105730	Your argument is not accepted, so I'm going to join my colleague's argument on this amendment and I'm going to stay on to vote on the amendment and repeat it once more so that, therefore, what we've been looking for in this amendment? Here I will read it, so pre-school education programmes can be achieved in primary schools for pre-school children over 36 months of age exclusively in areas of rare population and children of early age in accordance with the provisions of this law, the state pedagogical standard, pre-school education and education only in the same conditions as pre-school institutions or as shorter educational work programmes with children of early and pre-school age in libraries, health and social, cultural and sports institutions, associations, other legal persons and craftsmen according to the rules which determine the work of all pre-school institutions and under the same conditions as children's kindergartens. So it's important, we know the intention to expand, whether it's possible and the accessibility of preschool education, but it's important to note that there should be standards under what conditions these, this preschool education can actually happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105731	28th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105732	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105733	No club representatives, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 29th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105734	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105735	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105736	The same argument is not accepted and the amendment is required to be voted on. So I'm going to say it one more time, here we've been looking for unequivocal criteria for institutions that would attend children. They are of great importance since not only do institutions not have clearly developed criteria unless preschool education is conducted in kindergartens, but also within those kindergartens there are no clear criteria at all in which way this education is being conducted, especially in this deficit material sense where we are witnessing that today preschool teachers have to obtain equipment or from their own pockets that are necessary for work or to pray that I do not say coloquially to wire parents to donate from their own resources something with which they could work with children, therefore material conditions are not only inadequate and we cannot because we need to meet some European standards to ignore that fact but also to skip, and the criteria are not sufficiently satisfactory. So I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105737	30th Amendment of Representative Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105738	It's unacceptable. The administrative authorities shall regularly inform parents in a manner appropriate to the interests and possibilities of each environment. The preschool program is required, and there is no reason not to use it when enrolling in primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105739	Dear Representative Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105740	Well, here's the thing, I have to admit, sometimes I really wonder how I function here in the assembly. Namely, even in front of you, but behind you are really appreciated people from the academic community, people who have really nice experiences and useful suggestions. One of these useful suggestions is definitely out of practice this one too, so in the future I would like to hear a little more about the expertise of all these people, the truth God we are now like the last of the Mochikans, is how many of us, there are a few of us in the assembly, so that there is still something to be accepted. Just because we're an opposition doesn't mean we're your enemies. I will also ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105741	31st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105742	It's unacceptable. The obligation to pass an expert examination has been deleted to allow both educators and childcare professionals to establish a working relationship, provided that they pass a professional examination within the prescribed time limit. It is also a fact that other related professions exist, it is not disputed that persons who have completed other related studies have the right to acquire the qualifications of the educator, but the final draft of the law is not proposed to allow them to work before obtaining the appropriate qualifications. If such a person acquires the qualification of an educator, he will have the right to work as an educator. It is not acceptable to propose that a teacher cannot work on his own until he has obtained the qualifications prescribed, because this would be contrary to the article. The 26th century of the 5th century, according to which a person who does not meet the prescribed conditions can be employed for a certain period of time, can be an independent institution of educational work. The breeder shall not be able to perform the tasks of an expert associate, a pedagogogogical, a psychologist, a logod or an educational rehabilitator because each of those posts requires a specific qualification. There is no need to shorten provision No 12, given that the content of the proposed amendment is identical to the content of the proposed provision of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105743	On behalf of the club, respected representative Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105744	Thank you. Here, Amendment No. 31. In fact, the taste of everything that we have at the SDP Club is a concern and that we consider the most controversial in all these legal changes. You know very well that in the short term we miss 3,000 educators in Croatia, and in some long-term perception of 7,000. You've plotted your Brussels number by 2030. 96% of children involved in early and preschool education, in translation it would mean opening 22,000 new places in kindergartens and what are you doing here? You are now going to violate all the laws in the area of higher education because this type of requalification does not exist, it is not prescribed by the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I mean today, I'm doing you a favor, and I'm doing you a favor, and I'm not going to prejudge it, but I think you and I know exactly what the solution would be. You're illegally going to solve class teacher's surplus on the market, not to say that there are a number of other related professions that should have been included here, social educators, educators, no, you don't do that, who asked teachers if they want to do that? I've spoken to a few class teachers, they say it's an absolute absurd to requalify them in such an illegal way. What we're proposing and what the profession suggests is that it can if it's going to be some sort of temporary measure. You here in the legislative changes don't specify whether this is a short-term measure, whether this is a long-term measure and what's most important you actually can say one way or the other here, freely and openly force us to knowingly violate the law. The profession clearly told you she clearly told you she could, if class teachers will be hired as unprofessional replacements with a temporary short-term measure of up to 2 years. I don't understand why you don't want to accept this kind of professional amendment. We ask to vote on this amendment and stay with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105745	Thank you. Now we have amendments 32, 33, 34 and 35 that are identical, so let's start with 32. It's the Center and Voice Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105746	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation, but I'm going to do it again because it's about these others. Therefore, the obligation to pass an expert examination has been deleted in order to enable both educators and childcare professionals to establish a working relationship, provided that they pass a professional examination within the prescribed time limit. Article 3 of that Article provides for studies necessary for the work of an educator, as can be seen in paragraph 1 and the addition of the word early and preschool education and education is not necessary, and during time the name has been changed and any change of name could be possible and it could create employment problems. As set out in the table of amendments, those amendments will be governed by the Regulation. As regards paragraph 4, it is a fact that there are other related professions, it is not disputed that persons who have completed other related studies have the right to acquire the qualifications of the educator, but the final proposal of the law is not proposed to allow them to work before obtaining the appropriate qualification. If such a person acquires the qualification of an educator, he will have the right to work as an educator. It is also not acceptable to propose to obtain a prescribed qualification. that the teacher cannot operate on his own, because this would be contrary to Article 26(5), whereby a person who does not meet the prescribed conditions can be employed for a certain period of time and can be an independent institution of educational work. In accordance with the provision of Article 26(5), an unprofessional person may work independently for a period of 5 months and it is unclear why a teacher could not. The breeder shall not be able to perform the duties of an expert associate, i.e. neither the pedagogogogical, psychologist, logod or educational rehabilitator, as each of those posts requires a specific qualification. Furthermore, lastly, there is no need to shorten the provision of paragraph 12 since the content of the proposed amendment is identical to the content of the proposed provision of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105747	In the name of the club, respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105748	So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. So we stay with him. I'm going to refer to my colleague's amendment, and I'm actually going to say that this article is actually a test of whether this whole law is because what you're doing with the law. So we've got a raiser deficit. It is said here that teachers flee their professions because they are dissatisfied with working conditions, pay, and various other conditions, flee from these occupations into other occupations. And then what are we doing or what are you doing with this bill? Instead of dealing with it, we don't have a teacher's surplus and then we'll actually make a shift. These go into other occupations, and then we'll put other occupations here that come to the place of the raiser, to the place and to the conditions from which these educators escaped. So what exactly did we do? Nothing. That shift one, that one train, the train the educators went off and across the border, out of Croatia, went into other occupations, and this school teacher's surplus will now fill it out. And then they'll be working there for a while and they'll be unhappy again. So here we agree again with the proposals of the profession that require amendments to this article and a series of amendments, a series of items change and we ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105749	33rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105750	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105751	There are no club representatives, so we'll vote on that. 34th Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105752	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105753	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105754	I do not accept the same reasoning and ask that this amendment be voted on. Let's at least try to be creative here and point the problem again, you're just repeating that the argument is always the same. Perhaps we should dynamicize this debate so that you can expand your reasoning that we have some form of dialogue specifically. So there was one Croatia in which in preschool education and education almost nothing worked with respect to the staff deficits above all but one thing. We were better at something than the rest of Europe, and we were able to serve them as an example, which is in the education of our preschool educational staff. So we really had a qualified educational staff. Now this legislative change is going towards that one, and I will again point out the rare comparative advantage of the Croatian system until the end is relativeised and reduced because the piece that is unprofessional will enter the profession and do its work. The recommendations of the profession are justified by the fact that the deadline must be determined that there may be other professions that are more appropriate and closer to preschool education and education than teachers themselves. However, you unfortunately refuse to respect them, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105755	35th Amendment of Representative Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105756	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105757	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105758	Thank you. It was said here that nothing worked because of the deficit of fellow staff member Selak Rasdic, I would say it is not true. Nothing worked in preschool education because of the endangerment of the profession and the devastation of preschool education, and the staff deficit is just the result. And this shows you a survey that shows that as many as 20% of children's kindergarten employees are on contracts on a certain level. And that, these contracts have a very seasonal character means people are literally fired over the summer, so they're re-employed in the fall and such a way of breaking down preschool education because the most dangerous thing is that one discipline, one segment of society, if workers are threatened, and if workers are not allowed normal working conditions, such a threat has actually led to people not wanting to work there. And that's why you have a preschool deficit, because people don't want to work under such conditions. Such conditions are not normal working conditions. And as long as preschool workers are not treated as necessarily qualified, the society will not be better off. And I suggest that you also include gynecologists in that group of professions that you have identified as related to some of the criteria strange because 60% of the gynecologists refuse to do abortions which are their basis, one of their basic activities. I mean, we could go that way to economists, to all kinds of professions. Why not? They're all parents, so at that level you think about those who are employed in preschool education. They don't really have any dignity in your proposals to amend and supplement the law. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105759	36th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105760	It's unacceptable. As regards paragraph 4, there are other related professions. It is not disputed that persons who have completed other related studies also have the right to acquire the qualification of educators but the final proposal of the law does not propose to allow them to work before obtaining the appropriate qualifications. If such a person acquires the qualification of an educator, he will have the right to work as an educator.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105761	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105762	Thank you. I admit I didn't understand anything. So, I'll read again what we suggested, and we suggested literally the following. So if we did, so we suggested a formulation that would read. If a person who meets the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of this Article does not appear in the competition as an unprofessional replacement, the person who has completed a teaching study or other related studies such as studies of pedagogy, social pedagogy, educational rehabilitation and the like may be involved. You, Mr. Secretary of State, have admitted that these studies are related or at least as related to the study of educators as well as teaching studies, and we don't really see any reason, neither when looking at the level of education, nor when looking at the content and outcomes of learning, we see any reason that this law explicitly allows employment in pre-school education, in pre-school education and education systems for teachers, for example. not, of course, one and the other, with the necessary need for requalification and qualification. We absolutely don't understand your argument, so on the other hand we stay on our proposal. We'll ask for a vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105763	37th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105764	It's unacceptable. It is clear from the wording of paragraph 6, which persons concerned are concerned and no further integration is required, the invitation to paragraph 5 of that Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105765	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105766	Thank you. We don't really think that's clear either. So, when it is already allowed or legally envisaged, it is possible to hire teachers with compulsory qualifications or requalification at pre-school and education institutions, when it is quite reasonable to set a deadline for that qualification. It is equally reasonable to predict that a person who is not able or who has not wanted or could not obtain that qualification or requalification within 2 years is equally reasonable to predict that person is no longer able to work in a pre-school education system. So it's all consistent with this bill. The only thing that is not consistent is that this article actually applies to persons who have worked as unequal substitutes in pre-school and education institutions so far, until the moment this law is passed. What we would like and what we wanted to achieve by this amendment is to clearly distinguish that this article does not apply to these persons because it otherwise places them in an unequal position. Our amendment, therefore, was an attempt to clarify things, to make themselves explicit, to protect those who so far worked as unprofessional substitutes in preschool education and education. We think that amendment is useful, that it is necessary, that we stay with him, that we will ask for a vote on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105767	38th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105768	It's unacceptable. It is not acceptable to propose that a teacher cannot operate on his own until the prescribed qualification is obtained, as this would be contrary to Article 26(5), according to which a person who does not fulfil the prescribed conditions can be employed for a certain period of time, while being an independent institution of educational work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105769	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105770	Yeah, well, of course I'm staying with this amendment. We'll ask for a vote on him. I mean, the argument for these smaller ones is quite clear, and the very law of the explicit, so the explicit requires that persons who are employed as unprofessional replacements, even though they have completed a related study, that those persons must acquire a certain qualification or requalification within 2 years. It is quite clear that at least during that period of 2 years until they have obtained the qualification it is clear that these persons are not competent and are not qualified enough to take the lead in educational work on their own. So this amendment of ours is doing nothing but, rather, asking for something quite logical, which is that together with them, there is always a person who is fully qualified. So we stay on that, we think that this amendment is necessary and beneficial and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105771	39th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105772	It's unacceptable. The employer shall, namely, determine the documentation to be provided as proof of compliance with the prescribed conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105773	There's no Zurovac fellow, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 40th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105774	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105775	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 41st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is identical to the 42nd Amendment, the 43rd Amendment. And then we're going in line with the SDP Representatives' Club first, the 41st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105776	It's unacceptable. Third educator, namely definition of DPS, and can be employed in kindergarten according to DPS for working with children with developmental difficulties. Resources for assistants for children with developmental disabilities, as well as for other kindergarten employees should be provided by the founder of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105777	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105778	Thank you. So here I congratulate the HDZ first for introducing the term of the third educator with its amendment, which has been accepted, and I congratulate you for calling on the DPS now, even though I have repeated several times between the two readings and today that you have not even been able to submit an annual report on the DPS to HS, which is your legal duty as a resolute ministry, but to refer to the amendment submitted by the SDP Club of Representatives. We believe that the formulation that you can hire an assistant for children with developmental difficulties or a professional communication mediator is not good but in line with the needs of children with developmental difficulties, the formulations must be that these employees must be employed to help children with developmental difficulties, as well as to make it easier for parents themselves. And on the other hand, I have to go back to this unsustainable third-teacher formulation and ask you today we can't respect the DPS or JLS financially, so I can't respect two educators in one group, so unfortunately we have an unfortunate situation so that a teacher who releases her own children without the supervision of an adult while performing child care in the bathroom, and that's what you're doing here as a third-teacher, what should that third-teacher do? I did not see in any of the systematizations of the regulations of preschool founders themselves that such a workplace exists, and in fact it is clear that you are trying to work here, as you solve class teachers' surplus so that you will replace them now with educators and here you are trying to plant us not to hire professionals in the system, but to impose the concept of a third educator, and all so as not to respect the DPS you wanted to abolish, but the profession was raised, the opposition representatives were raised, so you failed to do so, there was a protest in 53 Croatian cities and I ask you once again why you do not listen to the profession and try to plant a coward's egg in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105779	Thank you. Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic has the 42nd amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105780	It's unacceptable. In accordance with the needs of children with developmental difficulties, the founder will ensure the employment of assistants or communication intermediaries in kindergarten. We also point out that the third educator is defined as DPS and can be employed in kindergarten according to the DPS for working with children with developmental difficulties, not to justify increasing the number of children in the educational group. Resources for assistants for children with developmental difficulties, as well as for other children's kindergarten employees, should be provided by the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105781	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105782	I thank you for your explanation. I don't accept it, and I'm going to ask it to be voted on. However, I took this explanation as your promise, you said the founder would provide a third raiser, so there may not be here and may be. So when this law comes into force all children with difficulties will have a separate educator who will make sure that they are properly integrated into the community regardless of what you have left in the law as a possibility, you have now made me de facto here publicly in HS promise that it will be secured. I have to say that I don't understand why it can't be explicitly stated in the law, but I will closely monitor the fact that you said it here publicly and what is really going to happen in practice in our kindergartens and whether all the founders are going to do it. If they don't, and you don't punish them for that inspection, they'll be on you again because of a law that doesn't exactly make them do it, but you made a promise, so I hope you'll implement it in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105783	The 43rd amendment of MP Katarina Peović is identical to the previous two, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105784	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105785	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105786	Now why did the secretary of state refuse or why the ministry refused this amendment, last time if I remember correctly, you replied that because it is not allowed by the legislator to impose something on the local administration and self-government if he does not finance it himself, which I don't think it's even sort of definitively correct, it can, meaning the legislator can impose it on local administration and self-government, but you did so, if I remember correctly, explain that this is the reason why you didn't put the sea on it, it must provide a kindergarten for children with developmental difficulties, so it's really a dramatic situation if the kindergarten doesn't have an assistant for children with developmental difficulties, and it's necessary, I mean it's a really dramatic situation, but your explanation was that way. I don't think that's valid, I don't think, from the point of view of the legislator, and I can also just join in hoping it won't be the case, right? But the third educator, if I understand you well here, you claim that this is the existing meaning of the third parent in the DPS and that you have not introduced it in a way that would allow more children to be in the programme than what is regulated by the DPS. We will see again what the results of this law really are because what the associations here seem to me, however, with the right to fear that the third breeder is just because what is the point of introducing the third breeder if we don't have practically two breeders in most of these environments, means again, let's just stick to the normative optimism that has prevailed here in the lack of hope, so believe that, indeed, it will be so and I'll ask that about the amendment of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105787	44th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105788	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105789	Dear Representative Bakic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105790	Thank you. Same explanation, we stay on the amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105791	45th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105792	It's unacceptable. Namely, Article 24a. the final proposal for a law is complemented by paragraph 5, which provides that childcare assistants’ jobs with developmental difficulties or professional communication mediators in kindergartens cannot be carried out by a person whose work in kindergartens are impediments under Article 25 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105793	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105794	Thank you. We stay on the amendment, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105795	46th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105796	It's unacceptable. Therefore, funds for assistants for children with developmental difficulties as well as for other kindergarten employees should be provided by the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105797	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105798	Once again, let's stay on the amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105799	47th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105800	It's unacceptable. The founder, in accordance with the needs of children with developmental difficulties, will ensure the employment of assistants or communication intermediaries in kindergarten. We also point out that the third educator is defined by the DPS and can be employed in the DV for working with children with developmental difficulties, and not to justify the increase in the number of children in the educational group and the means for assistants for children with developmental disabilities, as well as other kindergarten workers, should be provided by the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105801	There's no club president, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 48th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105802	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105803	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105804	Here's what we don't accept. So I'm going to point out the problems in this article one more time. So there's a few of them. The first problem, therefore, is that you introduce the concept of a third parent, a concept that is invented to try to show that additional employment can include more children in educational groups than is prescribed by the DPS. Therefore, the term third educator should be completely deleted from this final bill. Secondly, we also believe that it is necessary to open the possibility that funds for children with developmental difficulties can be provided in the state budget as well as in the course of the debate on this law we talked about the capacity of local self-government as to whether most of them actually do not have the capacity to provide these funds. Here, I thank you and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105805	49th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105806	It's unacceptable. Namely, the provision of Article 24a. paragraph 3 is in line with other rules of the system of education and the second part of the means for assistants for children with developmental difficulties and for other children's kindergarten employees should be provided by the founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105807	There's no representative of Zurovec, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 50th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105808	It's unacceptable. There is no need for further emphasis to be made on the implementation of the working procedure, to... The working relationship procedure is subject to the Labour Act, since all labour relations in public services are subject to the Labour Act as well as other regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, all public institutions must have websites in accordance with specific regulations and cannot add text that will be in conflict with other regulations. Furthermore, the possibility of hiring for 60 days without tendering twice in a row would allow for longer work without tendering, and this could also have a negative impact on childcare activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105809	In the name of the club, respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105810	Here we are, with this amendment and we are looking for a vote. Based on the example of related laws, for example, the one on primary schooling seems to be giving much more guidance here which is not necessarily included in the law because it stems from the provisions of other laws. Employment is, of course, carried out through public competitions, and what needs to be done is therefore a problem or better supervision in the implementation and provision of all laws. So here's how to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105811	51st Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105812	It's unacceptable. In addition to the same explanation, the proposal only below cannot be accepted because, in exceptional cases, the inability to hire a worker who meets the conditions of employment would not be able to organise work and would lead to difficulties in organising kindergarten work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105813	The club president's gone, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 52nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105814	It's unacceptable. Because the possibility of hiring for 60 days without tendering twice in a row can allow for longer work without tendering, and this can also have a negative impact on childcare activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105815	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105816	Thank you. Here's what I'm still going to read, actually, is what the amendment is proposing. In Article 26, the basic law in paragraph 4 is read as follows: The institution may use the possibility of hiring for the same job for 60 days without tendering for a maximum of 2 times and after that it is mandatory to call the competition. The same job shall include all jobs described in the same name or in the same job assignments where the need for a job does not last longer than 60 days. As it is clear, then, that this amendment of ours does not cross employment for 60 days without calling competitions because we are aware that some in real life is absolutely necessary. I once again stress that this amendment does not go beyond that. This amendment simply says that this procedure, this maneuver can only be implemented twice in a row, and I think it really takes as much to prevent no, not so rare as to mildly express myself so far but the observed abuses of this kind of institute. So from everything that's been said, I think you can conclude that we're staying on our proposal. We ask you to vote on this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105817	The 53rd and 54th amendments are identical. First, the 53rd Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105818	The amendment is not accepted with an already stated explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105819	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105820	Therefore, I have long not accepted the refusal of amendments, and I ask that this amendment be voted on. So, as explained in the amendment here, there are various ways of abuseing employment systems that go towards exploiting workers, as well as the introduction of unprofessional personnel into the education system. In view of the overall situation on the market, the deficit of breeders, the fact that they come out of the system at a time when they are at their best, so in terms of work the most fertile because they can no longer bear the pressure or bear responsibility for so many children since conditions are not adequate we cannot allow further uncertainty in employment through different contracts to certain or persisting certain non-professional persons by extending their contracts which then lead to the devaluation of the educational system in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105821	Are you asking for a vote? 54th Amendment is an identical representative of Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105822	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105823	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105824	What's this about? Let me just expand the debate a little bit. This is about constantly hiring a person for a certain time on the grounds that it is about the necessary employment for a specified time and it is repeatedly done by explaining that a man actually puts the same man in jobs where he replaces another person. It was said there to limit it to twice and to limit it to one job. But watch out this situation is a typical Croatian situation where really in preschool education and education, the most actually happening in schools is this situation. And it is related to the Labour Act where it says that for three years it can be employed for a certain period of time which should be limited to one year and it is also not clearly defined in the Labour Act that a person should not be employed in parallel, so one colleague comes to change one colleague who is on maternity leave, and then another colleague who is on maternity leave, etc. The other thing that's important here is also extremely typical, which is that it's possible to hire an unprofessional person. But yet also remarkable, and in preschool situations that don't actually have personnel, we have a staff deficit that's being exploited again and then every five months there's a contest going on. The person continues to work for years because there are no restrictions. So here it was only suggested that this exploitation of these workers who work for a certain period of time should be interrupted and that must indeed be done in this country. Why? Because we are at the very top of the pre-emptive contracts for working in Europe and if we don't solve it, we will really have this negative trend. There's only one country ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105825	Thank you. 55th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105826	It's unacceptable. In particular, Article 25 of the Law provides for obstacles to the establishment of employment in kindergartens, and the same applies to the establishment of all working relationships in kindergartens, as well as to the establishment of a working relationship between persons who base them in accordance with Article 26(5) of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105827	There's no representative of Zurovec, so we're gonna have to vote on that. Amendments 56, 57 and 58 are identical. Let's go to the 56th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105828	It's unacceptable. Namely, if the person has already passed the professional exam, there is no reason to be back in the status of trainees because she did her internship. Furthermore, a person who is employed under the obligation to acquire work competences is not in the same position as a person employed as a teacher and has the right qualifications as a teacher because he is employed as an unprofessional person. Furthermore, the basis for the adoption of the rules which will be laid down by the Minister responsible for Education in the manner and conditions of passing an expert examination as well as the traineeship programme is already laid down in Article 28 of the Law, and there is no need to add the proposed provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105829	On behalf of the club, respected representative Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105830	Thank you. Very nice of you here to try to show up as someone who wants to protect trainees and a younger workforce in preschool institutions. However, by these legal amendments and by not accepting our amendments that have been proposed by the profession, you are refuting it. I'll tell you why. Because more than 20% of children's children's children's kindergarten workers work on a certain level and these are people's masquerade, young people up to 30 years old and even 46% according to irrefutable, objective data and facts have a contract for a certain time significantly more than in all other public sector activities. On the other hand, we remain on this amendment. We're asking for a vote on him. For what? Just because we want to protect the trainees, we don't want to put them in a position to collect 12 months of necessary internships for three, four, five years without mentors, without written programs. And of course what we want to achieve with this amendment is that not everyone can have the same status. The professional exam for the teacher cannot replace the professional exam for the teacher and cannot have the same conditions until they have passed the professional exam and have obtained the necessary work experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105831	57th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia which is identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105832	So it's not acceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105833	No club representatives, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 58th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić, identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105834	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105835	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105836	So I don't accept the explanation. I ask that this amendment be voted on. As indicated by the compliance with the conditions in primary school education where teachers cannot take the difference of exams, they take it as a whole. The same requirements should also be implemented in the Law on Early and Preschool Education and Education. On the other hand, it is not possible to provide the right person who has not passed the expert exam while at the same time requiring the passing of an expert examination to enable the same status before meeting the same requirements. So we're looking for the same criteria for everything. It is one minimum that must be satisfied in order for the law to be legally justified. Of course I'll ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105837	59th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105838	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105839	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105840	Here's what we're looking for, too, is an amendment to the vote. Today, in 2021, children's kindergartens are subject to a rule adopted in '97. years without any changes since then. So here we join those who say that we must not allow trainees to be used as cheaper labour in places where the educator is missing, making them collect 12 months of mandatory traineeships for two or three years working on short replacements without mentors often later written internship programs. Also, a professional exam for a teacher cannot replace a professional examination for a teacher. The expert exam was not acquired under the same conditions as the educator. So, a teacher’s expert exam is not the same thing as a teacher’s professional exam. For that reason, we remain to vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105841	The 60th, 61st, 62nd Amendment is identical. First, the 60th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105842	The adoption of the Regulation shall not be accepted, in accordance with Article 30 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105843	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105844	So here I welcome the emphasis on the obligation to perfect, advance and director. It wasn't prescribed until now. However, the Proposer forgets to include the existing Rules on the way, the conditions of progress in the profession, the promotion of vocation positions for educators and professional associates in kindergartens, which the Act adopts exactly the Minister of Education and that Regulation is also from '97. years, and it is necessary to change it urgently, correct the terminology, make it applicable, etc. So we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105845	61st Amendment identical Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105846	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105847	The 62nd Amendment, which is identical to the previous amendment. Representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105848	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105849	And I'm sorry, I'm going to ask that amendment to be voted on. As already stated, the existing Rules on the way and conditions of advancement in the profession and the promotion of positions on the calling of educators and professional associates in kindergartens should be included. First of all, a code that dates back to '97. years in line with modern scientific achievements. I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105850	63rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105851	It's unacceptable. The positional calls for progress cannot be prescribed by sublaw but by the provisions of the law in order to ensure legal certainty for both employees and for founders who provide the means of pay. The basis for prescribing the procedure and the conditions for progress already exist in the applicable law and is prescribed by the Minister's Regulation. The proposed erasure of the second paragraph would not be in the interest of educational and educational workers in kindergartens because it thus ensures the protection of their rights in the event of the occurrence of certain circumstances prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105852	In the name of the club, respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105853	So this was an amendment to article 20, right? If I lost...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105854	No, no. You remember it all wrong. Amendment 63.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105855	A Article 18. Yeah, I'm sorry. This Regulation shall enter into Therefore, in the proposal for an amendment to the article, the Proposer proposes the possibility of advances of educators and directors for unclear reasons restricts the position of mentors and advisers, while ignoring the possibility that one of the workers will be able to demonstrate the affinity to the higher promotion and calling prescribed by the Regulation. So we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105856	Amendments 64 and 65 are identical. 64 first. Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105857	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105858	Amendment 65. There are no club representatives, so we have to vote on that. 65th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105859	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105860	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105861	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So what we want to say through this amendment is the need to create a system that will be encouraged for preschool and education employees, which will allow them to progress as long as they show interest. We believe that the proposed legislative solution is not adequate and that the explicits do not allow it, so we are looking for this legislative amendment and we expect this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105862	Amendments 66, 67, 68 and 69 are identical. First Amendment 66. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105863	It is not accepted because the applicable law already provides for a possible number and composition of members of the Governing Council, and details relating to the exact number of members as well as the composition of members of the Governing Council shall be determined by the institution in accordance with its statutes in accordance with the specificities and needs of each institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105864	On behalf of the club, respected representative Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105865	Thank you. So we're sorry that you're going to miss your chance again as well as your criteria and what you're going to leave room for discrimination. What the profession requires, what we are also looking for as opposition parliamentary representatives is to introduce the necessary experience and education necessary for the functioning of the administrative council, in the institutions of pre-school education. And you're aware yourself that today's pre-school boards are doing well by political appointments, so let's put one of ours there for 700, 800, 900 thousand kunas of monthly compensation and peace in the house. This is what we want to avoid and I am really very sorry that you are also putting aside this benign amendment and it is visible that of the 80 amendments that we have proposed you will only accept for the time being one and the one that comes to us in the subsequent HDZ amendments only your ruling structures and these all amendments that have been drawn up by the waist and which we are now putting aside as opposition MPs. For what? Only because of politics. It goes to your conscience. I ask that the amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105866	The amendment of the 67th is identical to the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105867	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105868	Honorable representative Puljak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105869	So here is the teacher's explanation, on this amendment, that is, this article of the law, I will say that the basis of the practice so far shows that in this area the necessary changes have not been proposed, so the composition and number of members of the board of directors need to be amended or complemented. It is a common phenomenon that in the administrative councils of persons with the status of pensioners, they are from professions that have nothing to do with the work of pre-school institutions, nor with any experience of managing such institutions, and therefore it is necessary to include persons who, by their experience, education and understanding educational processes, will contribute to the quality management of pre-school institutions. Since preschool institutions establish and fewer JLS are left with the possibility of having 5 to 7 members, and the composition of council members must be significantly different than it is now. We suggest that in the case of a council numbering 5 members, 2 members are appointed by the founder and one educational council, and one member by all workers if there is no working council and one member of the representatives of the parents. In the case of a board of seven members, 3 members are appointed by the founder, 2 educational council, one member all workers and one member of the parents. So we're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105870	It is identical to the 68th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105871	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105872	It is also identical to the 69th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105873	Unacceptable, same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105874	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105875	The same argument is not accepted and the amendment is required to be voted on. So the requirement of the profession is very simple. If someone is going to manage us, someone must be professional and have appropriate qualifications. It is not for anyone to decide on things that have no idea as it is often unfortunately not only in this area but also in all other areas of the case, so I can only express regret that you have not accepted the more precise definition of the composition of administrative councils in accordance with the profession and I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105876	70th Amendment of Representative Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105877	It's unacceptable. However, that provision is not subject to the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105878	No colleagues, so we'll have to vote. 71st Amendment of Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105879	It's unacceptable. Such a proposed provision is not enforceable or cannot ensure legal, legal certainty of the implementation of the provision as it is unclear how certain links would be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105880	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105881	You say it's not enforceable, you don't know how to establish an interesting connection with the party's starting card, and then we can have family and godfather relations, too. This is an anti-corruption proposal, and I will read for the sake of the Croatian public what the amendment read. For a member of a children's kindergarten board whose founder or unit of local and regional self-government cannot be appointed by a person who, with members of the executive authority, I mean the mayor, the municipal chief and their deputy, is associated with family or godmother, friendly, business or party or any other relationship from which a potential conflict of interest could be established, and in the event that such a member of the governing council is appointed by such a person, which, under the authority of the competent authority, I mean the commission, not this council which is now invented by Plenkovic's government, so if the commission determines that the person is in conflict of interest then it will be considered that the designation is nothing and does not produce any legal effects and since the moment of power and the finality of the decision which determines the existence of circumstances resulting from a possible conflict of interest. Now that would be a fight against corruption that starts in kindergartens like I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105882	72th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105883	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105884	It becomes an integral part of the law. 73rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105885	It's unacceptable. The term of office of director has been completed by a study for an educator, and the person who completed a specialist postgraduate study meets the conditions prescribed by one of the points A to E. Furthermore, educators and professional associates may also complete another university postgraduate study that is related to the early and pre-school education system, and the addition of such a provision could be discriminatory in relation to other persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105886	On behalf of the club, respected representative Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105887	Thank you. And I'd... You come from the Resort Ministry, why do you even sign passes then for postgraduate and specialist studies if you simply don't want to start from yourself or put into collective agreements the basis of 8% that used to be worth the master's degree in science and what is said to people who have completed those studies, and what is said to them when enrolling in these studies that they will also achieve higher incomes, that this will enable them to receive better through collective agreements, you are simply stifling people who have further educated themselves and who have made loans. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll agree with me that postgraduate specialist studies today cost a lot, even those science masters that once cost 30 thousand kuna, and collective agreements had a public and state sector to achieve 8% on the ground, they don't come true here. And now that it is trying this amendment, and also in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and in accordance with what the Committee for the Interpreting of collective bargaining, where your fellow State Secretary, Mr. Mamic, is sitting that 8% will be put in the next negotiations on the basis of pay in collective agreements, you are here trying these people who have been educated for a year, who have been writing work, who have passed exams while already doing what they do regularly, I do not understand the intensity of your non-acceptation of this ours can say a truly benign amendment. I recommend that you then talk to universities in future, respecting, of course, their autonomy, but simply that when you come to the table of this proposal for a study programme with contributions to postgraduate specialist studies that you don't approve of them, I really don't see the point of teaching how the system works today. We ask that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105888	The 74th, 75th and 76th amendments are identical. First, the 74th Amendment of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105889	It shall not be accepted, with the first part of the reasons referred to in paragraph 6, with the amendment of paragraph 6 in some cases, that the long-term performance of the Director may be deficient but also the practice has shown that the Director who carries out his work knowingly and committed himself and in the third or fourth term may contribute to the quality of the work of a kindergarten and there is no reason to make it impossible to carry out the tasks of the Director and for more than 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105890	There's no club president, so we're gonna have to vote on that. 75th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105891	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105892	Honorable representative Puljak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105893	So here's a classmate's explanation for this article, so we're staying on the amendment, and we're asking for a vote on it. Therefore, here is the proposal to amend the term of office of director from 4 to 5 years in order to comply with the position of principal in primary schools, but it is missed to mention whether a specialist university and postgraduate study is precisely from the field of education management and management, which as a specialised education should have a weight in the appointment of directors. In addition, the practice has shown certain shortcomings in the long term appointment of the director to that function, which is why we think it is necessary to limit it, and we agree whether it is with the proposals of the profession that require that the possibility of a consecutive appointment be limited to two mandates, which means a maximum of 10 years. So we're asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105894	The 76th Amendment, which is identical to the representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105895	Unacceptable, same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105896	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105897	The same reason is not accepted and the amendment is required to be voted on. So what's important here is we're asking that directors in kindergartens not be discriminated against, that they have the same rights as school principals on one side. On the other hand, to select professional or competent persons and in the end to have directors who will be able to perform this function but in full time. So we're looking for a system that will be encouraged for the best that they can manage in the way that is prescribed in other educational institutions. I'll ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105898	77th Amendment of Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105899	It's unacceptable. Such proposed provisions are not enforceable or cannot be guaranteed legal certainty by implementing the provisions because it is not clear how certain links would be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105900	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105901	As with the previous amendment, I will immediately reply to you in order to implement this by means of an independent expert body, which would be the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest, to establish that an interesting link exists. And the interesting connection is family relations, godfather relations, and party card. We have 555 cities and municipalities, each of which has its own public kindergartens. So far, the practice has been full of favors in the selection of directors. These amendments try to correct this practice in a way that, in addition to those prescribed professional criteria, we must also have a absence, the absence of these other categories which were most often an advantage in each setting and appointment. And as long as Croatia does not deal with this problem from the implementation of this law, it will essentially be nothing. Gardens are small-interest zones for the start of corruption and clientelism. Thank you. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105902	78th Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105903	It's unacceptable. By way of derogation from paragraph 4 of that Article, the Director shall be authorised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105904	My colleague Zurovci is gone, so we're going to have to vote on it. Now we have amendments 79, 80, 81 that are identical. First, Amendment 79. Advocacy Club for Fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105905	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendments to the public needs programme would not only be seen as prescribed programmes but also all regular education and education programmes. And the law prescribes a way of financing kindergartens, and the final proposal also adds new provisions regarding funding from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105906	There are no club representatives, so we'll have to vote on that amendment. The 80th Amendment, which is identical to the previous Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105907	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105908	Honorable representative Puljak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105909	So here we ask that this amendment be voted upon. According to the proposal whether the profession is a law, this article requires an amendment to the public needs of all regular programmes in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. Therefore, it is noteworthy to think of all regular programs with special emphasis on these specific programmes. So that little change here wasn't hard to accept, but everything okay. So we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105910	It is also identical to the 81st Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105911	Not accepted, same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105912	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105913	So I will repeat once again that by citing only certain programmes and categories of preschool children, the applicant makes inadmissible discrimination by putting some children and a list of his priorities at the expense of other children who are not on that list and that is why we will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105914	The 82nd amendment of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105915	It's unacceptable. The final draft law added new provisions to ensure the financing of the fiscal sustainability of kindergartens independently of the programmes they implement from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105916	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105917	I don't think we got it right. Let's just say it like that. What we're looking for here and this is coming back from these requirements that we've all taken over more or less means from associations, it's a request from the Workers' Front that we've been referring to for some time now. What's this about? So 2014 preschool programme was introduced as mandatory for all children a year before starting primary school. In order for all children to have the same means of social inclusion in institutional education before enrolment with primary school, it would be necessary and we certainly welcome it, so the mandatory preschool program is a very good thing and the more socialization of children in kindergartens is generally a very good thing, but you have a situation in which parents have to pay for kindergarten. I mean, it's not about the programs that you've analyzed here, it's about going to kindergarten, which is about a year before school. Some parents may decide to send their children only into the program, but we are looking for the funding of preschool all that year for all parents who, meaning for all parents because school, in fact, preschool is mandatory. Not just programs, it means parents send their child to the program, but to keep that last year free of charge for all the children because that's the equivalent of this situation you're having right now. So one year before school is mandatory as if the first grade of primary school was paid. It's actually the equivalent of that. And what we're looking for is that this preschool is integrated with school and that if it's mandatory, it's free of charge. So not only the programs, but everything completely related to that last class, or first class before school. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105918	83rd Amendment of Representative Dari Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105919	It's unacceptable. The final draft law added new provisions to ensure the financing of fiscal sustainability of kindergartens, the founder of which is local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105920	There's no representative of Zurovec, so we'll have to vote on that. Now come Amendments 84 and 85 that are identical. First 84. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105921	It's unacceptable. The transitional provision cannot, however, set a time limit for the decision-making of which is not prescribed by the applicable law or by the provisions of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105922	Dear representative Radolovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105923	It's final. Our last amendment today we're asking you to simply sort of dissipate the local self-government units in some way. You built through a rural development program of over 200 kindergartens. So they built physical capacity. You saw what happened yourself. At the end of those new buildings, he had no one to work from an educator to an auxiliary technical staff. Now all smaller units of local self-government have grown by double from the budget for the early preschool and education system. All of them want to respect the DPS because, of course, their goal in their environments is to increase the quality of the educational process. We are looking for this amendment to finally define the single economic price of kindergarten. Now it varies from 900 to 2 and a half thousand kunas as well as that, in a way, eventually equalises the salary of the raiser but not by paying and the economic price of kindergartens is taken by the lowest, but by making one real assessment. You know for a fact that the teachers' salaries in Croatia today vary somewhere I really have to say the miserable three and a half thousand kunas. This is not half enough for a dignified life, especially if today's rise in inflation prices and the growth of the entire consumer basket, and the highest salary of the raiser is about 6 and a half thousand kuna, which you will agree with me is also too little. And now that we're proposing and that this assistant for children with developmental difficulties at least finance the burden of the state budget not and that's where you want to introduce again the non-existent term of a third parent and put it on the backs of units of local self-government. We're staying with our amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105924	It is identical to the 85th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105925	That's right. It's not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105926	Honorable representative Puljak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105927	Thank you. ... For this reason, here's the reason that she listed her colleague so that I don't repeat myself now, we're asking for an amendment to this vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a unique methodology for calculating the economic price of kindergartens should be adopted within 9 months. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105928	And the 86th Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105929	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105930	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105931	I don't accept the explanation. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon since this is my last amendment I will take this opportunity to thank again all the associations involved in this consultation that are engaged in preschool education and education, which have made their content legislative proposals and have shown that they care primarily about creating an adequate legal framework that will monitor modern trends, respect the position of their profession and ultimately provide our children with carefree and quality stay in kindergartens. I also commend their public struggle, so these women got up, came to Mark's square and tried and physically protesting to show that they disagree with this violent amendment of the law by implementing the impossible into possible only to meet the formal criteria. We must first in practice ensure that institutions can accept children and that our educators are adequately provided and respected and in terms of their material rights in order to satisfy the figures. The figures are not their own purpose, they are only the result of a well-organized educational system. And here I want to say once again that I don't think their number and struggle was in vain. Here the entire opposition stands by their legislative proposals and will come at some point when the political option will prevail, which will primarily respect the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105932	Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS]] We are now going to discuss the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science and the first amendment we have representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go. Yeah, I didn't say, of course, respected Ivica Šushak State Secretary at the Ministry of Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105988	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In particular, Article 3(1) of the Law, which stipulates that the founding true obligations of the Foundation are fulfilled by the Ministry of Science's responsibility, is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the work of the Ministry of Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105989	Dear MPs, Selak Rasdic is gone, so we'll have to vote on that. 2nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105990	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the Foundation was established by the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia and is also prescribed by Article 1(1) of the Law. The purpose of the Foundation is to develop and promote science and technology, as well as to ensure sustainable social and economic development, as well as to ensure scientific and technological development, as well as to set out in Article 4(1) of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105991	Dear Representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105992	Thank you very much. Well, dear Secretary of State, we would still stay with our amendment, so we certainly don't think it's necessary or appropriate to tie the development of science to, especially for economic development. [[In the name of the club.]] We think that the development of science is an essential part of general social development. We think that in fact the goal of science is much broader and more inclusive than development, rather than economic development. It is harmful to ignore the fundamental role of science, to bring it down, to develop science to the function of economic development. So we'd like to stay with our proposal and pray for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105993	3. Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105994	The amendment is not accepted. Under scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia and are listed in Article 4(3) of the Law, research based on acts of strategic planning adopted in accordance with the Strategic Planning and Development Management System Act of the Republic of Croatia such as the National Development Strategy, the National Reform Programme and the Smart Specialisation Strategy is considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105995	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105996	About this esteemed secretary of state and here we would also stay with our amendment. So we would tend to, that solution to delete, that scientific research is deleted from this article of the law, which is of particular strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia simply because scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia is not explicit, is not explicitly counted in the current strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, in that sense, this concept is not well defined. It thus opens the space with interpretations and therefore we think it is harmful to leave this formulation in the law at this moment. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105997	4th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105998	It's unacceptable. In this respect, Article 4 of the Law stipulates that the evaluation of the proposals for scientific projects financed from the state budget is determined by general acts, while the evaluation of proposals for scientific projects financed by decentralised EU funds and other international sources is determined by implementing agreements with competent authorities. There is no definition of the most scientifically developed countries or criteria for their choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u105999	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106000	Of course there is no definition of the most developed countries, but the purpose of our intervention is, of course, clear. The law on the Croatian Foundation for Science should promote scientific excellence, competence and the highest standards of evaluation and implementation of projects. And it is particularly important for the evaluation of projects to be an international character that it is a practice in most similar foundations in Europe and the world, especially in the countries we want to look up to and look up to. Especially in countries with the highest scientific standard. And we are applying these highest international standards or criteria of excellence can therefore enable us to keep up with the most scientifically developed countries and only so is it possible at national level to develop science according to the highest criteria and real participations in the European Research Area and in general in the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106001	Amendment 5...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106002	We're staying with the amendment, of course, and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106003	5th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106004	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The allocation procedure will be laid down in the Regulation in accordance with Article 10(1) of the Law adopted by the Management Board of Foundations and according to the type of programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106005	The honourable MPs are gone, so we're going to have to vote on that. 6th Amendment of Representative Maria Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106006	The amendment is not accepted. The allocation procedure will be laid down in accordance with Article 10(1) of the Law adopted by the Management Board of the Foundation, according to the type of programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106007	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106008	Mariana Puljak, not Marija Puljak Not all right. [[I'm sorry about that.]] How we really want to introduce the criteria of excellence and that is the excellence of whether according to the criteria of the most developed countries, in these articles we propose to delete the word "mostly" from part of the sentence mainly at international level and mainly international scientific peers, the international review includes Croatian reviewers, and in fact this move says that it cannot be only Croatian, so it is aimed at the criteria of excellence that prevail in the most developed countries and we want to apply it in its own laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106009	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106010	I'm looking, of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106011	7th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106012	The amendment is not accepted. Art. Article 8(2) of the Law lays down the conditions for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Foundation, Art. Article 12(2) of the Law lays down the conditions for the selection of members of the Board of Appeals, and Article 2 of the Law. Article 11(4) of the Law provides that the conditions for the appointment of a trustee are to be governed by the Statute and the Internal Order Regulations of the Foundation. There is no definition of top scientific scientists of the most developed countries, nor of the criteria for their choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106013	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106014	As such a definition explicitly does not exist, there is no definition of any of the concepts set out in this law, so that argument could not be considered valid. I will also say this, so we remain with our amendment, that is, with the proposal to supplement this article, which requires that members of all bodies of the foundation be selected from the ranks of top scientists according to the criteria of excellence of the most developed countries, because in order for the Foundation to meet its purpose and indeed promote excellence and truly equal inclusion and participation in the European Research Area, it is critical that it is managed by both its bodies and made by top scientists with worldly recognised works, here we are close to definition and results. The current formulation of Art. 8th century 2. where I am asked to quote internationally recognition of scientific papers and results underlining the need for the foundation to be managed by the most prominent scientists. In fact, the criteria are being tempered, and space is being opened for the Management Board of Foundations and other bodies to be elected and members with a scientific contribution without a significant international echo. And I'm going to say this. In reality, it is deeply disappointing to refuse to accept this amendment. This proposal is not orthogonal to the bill, it is not directed, this proposal is effectively and in good faith improving this law, it is simply asking to raise the scales to establish the highest criteria, in fact we cannot understand why the Proposer does not want to accept this amendment. Of course we're staying with him and asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106015	8th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106016	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, i.e. The Governing Board of the Foundation will adopt a general act on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which will prescribing the conduct of conflicts of interest in the process of evaluation, which will refer to persons involved in the evaluation process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106017	Respected deputies Oreskovic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. 9th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106018	It's unacceptable. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, the word “top” in Article is deleted. The 8th of the Second Amendment of the Law as superfluous. Namely, there is no definition of top scientific scientists of the most developed countries, nor of the criteria for their choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106019	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106020	Well, I could actually say almost again from word to word all that I just said, but I'm going to add something right now. So this is really impressive, it's impressive that the deleted word is "top-top," so what are we talking about? We are talking about members of the Board of Directors of the Science Foundation and we are erasing the requirement that in this body, therefore the body managed by the Science Foundation sits top scientists. We have proposed an amendment to which we have therefore asked that, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, members of the Management Board of the Foundation appoint HS from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have internationally recognised scientific papers and results according to the criteria of the most developed countries, taking into account the representation of all scientific areas. It is impossible to understand the rejection of such a proposal, such a criterion, the installation of such a criterion of excellence that should be met by those who are supposed to manage the Croatian Science Foundation tomorrow. Refusal of the criteria we ask for top scientists to sit on the Board of Foundations, we cannot understand other than the opening of space for membership in this Management Board, so that membership in this Management Board is also acquired by some others, not just scientific criteria. Of course we're staying with our amendment proposal and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106021	The 10th Amendment of Representative Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106022	It's unacceptable. In fact, the number of works and results is not the only proof of scientific excellence either at national or at European and overall international level, and it depends on a particular scientific area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106023	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106024	Here I join my colleague Bakic, who is actually disappointed in the fact that excellence and top scientists and top science are actually moving from this law. As his proposal continues, therefore, to be added here from the ranks of scientists from the ranks of top scientists, we propose to remove these words "especially those" because we think, in particular, those who have internationally recognised scientific papers because we think that this introduces some kind of obligation, we really think that members of the Management Board must be top scientists according to the criteria of the most developed countries, therefore exclusively scientists with internationally recognised scientific works and results, so we remain on our amendment and we are looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106025	11th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106026	... The scientific most developed countries and the criteria for their selection, in accordance with the rules of the single methodological nomotechnical rules, this proposal is not accepted. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106027	Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106028	I thank you for this little cynical explanation and, of course, I will ask that this amendment be voted on or not accepted. As colleagues used to say, if there are no criteria, we can also vote on them here, they don't even have to be in some rulebook, and I think everyone knows what they should be. In any case, what is important and what we all point out is that in such an important institution, scientific excellence is nurtured, or it is a crucial criterion. If we do not have such a type of criteria, then we cannot even guarantee that we will have expert commissions or trust management, and according to this, neither will the best projects be selected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106029	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106030	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106031	12th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106032	It's unacceptable. The candidates for members of the Management Board may also be submitted by members of the National Scientific Council, scientists and members of the academic community through scientific institutes, higher universities and HAZU, respectively, through legal persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106033	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106034	Thank you. Of course, the law foresees or the current bill provides that members of the academic community can participate in the proposal through their institutions. The purpose of our proposals was to extend the circle of authorised proposals of members of the board of directors and to make it possible for the authorised proposing to be also the National Council for Science and also to make it possible for authorised proposings to be individual scientists and members of the academic community. Once again, we do not see in this damage, and the benefit is clearly and multiple. We believe that a circle of authorised proposings needs to be expanded in this way to ensure that the entire academic community is fragmented in the selection of members of such an important body. We remain with our amendment proposal, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106035	13th Amendment of Representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106036	It's unacceptable. The Foundation's strategic plan will define, among other things, the positioning of the Foundation in the national innovation system in accordance with the NPOO. In addition, the strategic plan of the Foundation should be aligned with the acts of strategic planning such as the national development strategy and the Smart Specialisation Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106037	Honorable representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106038	Thank you. We're staying with our amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. And we have suggested that it remain an article, item and sub-item, so it proposes a strategic plan for the HS Foundation to delete this part that needs the previous consent of the ministry and we believe that it should be done by the board of directors, the Scientific Council, so scientists without interference from the administration and politics. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106039	You're asking for a vote, aren't you? Yeah. 14th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106040	It's unacceptable. Namely, art. The 13th century of the Law stipulates that members of scientific and professional committees make up experts with experience in the management of scientific projects, the evaluation of project proposals, and those experts who have international visibility, and the criteria for selecting members of scientific and professional committees will be determined by the general acts of the Foundation in accordance with Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106041	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106042	Thank you. What is currently being sought in the existing legislative proposal is insufficient. What we have proposed in this amendment is a formulation which explicitly reads "members of scientific and professional committees make up experts with experience in the management of scientific projects, especially those of national and international competences and with experience in the evaluation of project proposals of the same kind. The point is, in the following, the original proposed formulation is not sufficiently clear, the original proposed formulation of the legislator of course does not make it clear enough to meet the criteria that members of scientific and professional committees should meet. There is an experience in the management of scientific projects, but it leaves out to require some minimum rank of these projects. Similarly, the formulation of international visibility is inaccurate and is therefore subject to too broad interpretations. It is essential to require experience and experience in the evaluation of project proposals whose rank is at least equal to, at least equal to, natural projects financed by the Foundation, we are convinced that such things should be applied in the law. We therefore remain with the proposal of our amendment and ask that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106043	15th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106044	It's unacceptable. Art. The 18th century of the 1st century shall be governed by the law in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Law. 3.St. 1st Law and Part-Circumstance of the Ministry of Science, Art. The 18th century of the Law is in line with the provisions of the Budget Law and the fiscal liability law, resulting in the Ministry having jurisdiction to verify the legal and purpose use of funds paid to trustees or budget users under its jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106045	Dear MPs, Selak Rasdic is gone, so we will have to vote on that. The 16th Amendment of Representative Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106046	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, art. The 18th century of the 1st century is in accordance with Art. 3rd century of the 1st law and the part-round work of the Ministry of Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106047	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106048	So we stay with our amendment and we ask for a vote on it, so we ask that the Science Foundation oversee HS, and I will take this opportunity and the two minutes I have for the last amendment to say that here I share disappointment with this law with 332 scientists and scientists who have sent the signatures and signed the proposal that this Foundation Act should guarantee the independence and continuity of the operation of the foundation without political influence. They also asked their signatures to ensure a way of selecting board members and all expert bodies of the foundation exclusively according to high criteria of scientific excellence by complying with the standards of the most developed countries. They expressed the need to maintain international project review as a mandatory part of the selection process. Here, I'm sorry that we haven't, we haven't met these criteria and we've actually disappointed the scientific community and one foundation for science is actually not going to serve the purpose of promoting excellence anymore, but we've already demoted it and we've ultimately ruined the work of that foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106049	You're looking for a vote, I suppose. 17th Amendment of MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106050	It's unacceptable. Article 12(4) of the Law provides that the way the Board of Appeal works is to be governed by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Board of Appeal will be governed by the decision-making procedure on objections and the way in which the Board of Appeals is working and reporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106051	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106052	Thank you. This is an eclectic example of how the state works on a para-system. A system in which there is no control over those entrusted by the State to perform certain tasks and tasks. So a commission that is so embedded in a system of such an important institution cannot prescribe itself a system of rules and a system of criteria on which to operate. And I ask you openly, and I know you can't answer me because that wasn't even your point. To whom will this commission take account of its work? Who will control this commission? And that's the state of disorder. It's a dysfunctional state. You can put people in this commission with such an important scientific institution for what you will and degrade you both science and scientists and all scientific projects. And I really don't see what the problem is, when one and the same government, through another resolute ministry, specifically the Ministry of Social Welfare, has passed a new law, and in this law has invented a new invention that some commission of objections will control a complete system of social care, if this commission can submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. And I'm asking you, and why can't this make a difference? All right, if you can't tell the Croatian Parliament who you can. You can tell who can turn their backs on their board members if they make an illegal decision, and by the rules they're making themselves up. Well, it's a real state of theater and absurdity. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u106053	Thank you very much, we are done with this bill of law or amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107359	So now we're going to cross over as we announced a statement about the amendments. The first statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia is the second reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. With us is Secretary of State Stephen Curaj, who will declare the amendments submitted, let's go in turn. The first is please colleagues and colleagues, the first is the amendment of the Club of Representatives Mosta, Amendment No. 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107360	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the applicant proposes to further regulate price emphasis, the Final Proposal of the Law is just presupposing a double statement of the total amount in accounts and a total of offers, contracts with a view to consumer protection. This is also carefully worked out in order to enable all necessary information to be seen whether the business operator has miscalculated the prices or has unfairly increased those prices. This proposal would harm the very sense of consumer protection in order not to single out these prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107361	There's no one, on behalf of the Bridge Club, here's a colleague of the Bulls. Are you here for the amendment? Well, here's an indication, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107362	Thank you very much. The introduction of the euro at this time when we have an inflation that is unconstitutional, the increase in energy prices, we see what happens to food collection, we see that the stability of the financial Republic is at risk, and at this point, the introduction of the euro is insane, and we have facts when the situation was orderly in Slovenia, at the introduction of the euro 7% was inflation due to the euro. That is why we are also asking for democracy for the people to vote in a referendum to withdraw everything in terms of the euro and the adoption of the euro. And that the people in the referendum decide whether the euro should be introduced or not because most experts, the vast majority, both Croatian and foreign, say that at this time the introduction of the euro is harmful, and we also have a problem with having our currency, mainly HDZ, the foundation, was Croatian, the Croatian wallet in Croatian pocket with Croatian kuna, the Croatian coin, the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, but at this point, in order for the government of Andreja Plenkovic to hand over to officials in Brussels and to turn us into a reservation to be Indians, he is the leader of everything in the EU, and the people is starving, and that's what I just said to the teleoperators where the biggest profit in the Republic and the biggest gain he is taking... The local self-government of the new Oblished Brothers, which will take 150 million kunas to local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107363	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. It has nothing to do with the amendment, everything you said, but. Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107364	I have the right to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107365	But you do, okay. Would you like a vote on the amendment? Okay. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] Now we're going to the Green-Left Block Club Amendments, there's four of them. 1st Amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107366	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant proposes that the announced ethical code be integrated into the very text of the law and that the establishment of the so-called code be proposed. black lists of legal entities where it is undoubtedly found that they have violated the code of ethics or the law itself. The accession of the Ethics Code is voluntary and as such stated in the reasoning of the law and therefore does not need to be repeated in the normative part of the law. However, this does not mean that non-accessible business entities will not be supervised. The supervision will be carried out according to all business entities equally, and all business entities will be able to be notified to supervisory authorities by both consumers and the consumer protection association that will be included indirectly in the monitoring of the application of these laws, which is also legally even quite well-defined. In translation, citizens and the public will be able to point out, notice, object to those who have joined and those who do not and ask them why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107367	Comrade Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107368	Thank you. I do not accept the explanation and request a vote on this amendment. First of all, I will say that the National Plan for the introduction of the euro has made it very clear and prescribed in this way that these black lists, which in the introduction of the euro into Slovenia, have helped to avoid excessive price increases. These black lists have been executed, therefore, by the National Plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic himself in the introduction says that everything will be done to protect the citizens from being too large. of the abuse of the introduction of the euro to raise prices and, of course, extra profits. Which is why the blacklist institute was executed on its way from the government to the ministry of lawmaking, it is not completely clear. But the fact remains that we live in times where gas prices are going up, where inflation is increasing every month, where the purchasing power of citizens is getting smaller, we live in a country where we have a huge percentage of those who are on the verge of poverty and unfortunately those who are in poverty. This government is obliged to do everything possible and to prescribe this by law to protect citizens from unjust price hikes and therefore I continue to believe that this should be made clear and loud in the law. And we're looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107369	We're going to the 2nd Amendment, same club reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107370	The amendment is not accepted by reason, i.e. the Proposer or the Proposer proposes precision in order to avoid possible interpretation in which rounding to an integer would be allowed, i.e. No decimal. The provisions of the laws containing general and specific rules of recalculation and rounding are clear and unequivocal. Follows directly applicable EU legislation and recognises the exceptions prescribed by specific regulations. In that sense, by accepting, say, this amendment, rounding up an integer without such an option being recognised through a special regulation, it would be a violation of articles in earlier articles of the same article, so Article. 15, consequently and Art. 14 of this Act, which provides for sanctioning in accordance with Article 14 of the Law. 88, so even normally this amendment could not be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107371	Here's an indication. I'm a colleague of Raukar's again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107372	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I would really appreciate it if you could read the explanation a little more clearly because unfortunately I am not able to follow everything. Yeah, I mean, I have to comment, and that's what I've been talking about in free speech and the government recall point, let's not let the defense of the amendment become a complete form. Indeed, that in this House is turning into a complete form. Here, there are no people on the right who should explain to me why we think that amendment is necessary. I don't have to explain it to you who you said no to. And you're still reading the explanation that I don't understand, but the eyes. I'd appreciate it if power would be a little clearer, thank you. So we have made it very clear in the explanation that this precision is necessary to avoid possible interpretations in which rounding to an integer would be allowed. Unfortunately, we know that Croatia is a country of incredible possibilities for interpretation of laws, regulations, etc. This particular amendment was given by Prof. Dr. Damir Bakić, professor of mathematics at the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics in Zagreb, and I am absolutely sure that man knows what he's saying. And it's one of the amendments that goes in favour of the citizens so they don't accidentally use themselves, and unfortunately it wouldn't be the first time in Croatia the letter of law. And that's why we're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107373	My colleagues, Raukar, just please don't make any partial calls, there's no colleagues on the right, but there's no colleagues either. So neither do they have to be here, nor do I think it's fair because neither are you, and then someone will call you when you're gone, let's at least be fundamentally collegiate. We're going to the third amendment of the same club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107374	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, it is proposed that banks need an entire period of 12 months from the day of the euro's introduction to replace the kuna's money, for the euro's money, without compensation, regardless of the amount. The exchange of cash from the kuna for the euro money made without compensation but with the possibility of replacing up to 100 kuna banknotes and the most kuna coins per transaction was introduced by example to other Member States and in accordance with best practice, with the aim of a rapid exchange of currencies. Of course, we do not have to invent hot water when I say the best practice of other Member States, we are not the only ones and taking care of the costs themselves that it represents. It should be noted that, at all times, it will be possible to replace, at no cost, fees over 12 months, the kuna money for the euro money in those institutions only to banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107375	Comrade Raukar, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107376	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. President, to answer your question. So, the defence institute amendment is next. Representative clubs or individual representatives shall submit the amendment. The Ministry looks at the amendment and assesses, decides in principle not as we know and as practice enters us. The defence of the amendment is the possibility for colleagues from the ruling majority to try once again to familiarise themselves with the content of the amendments and arguedly ask, to convince them that they may agree to make the amendment into law. If they're not physically here, then this becomes pointless and satisfying the mere form. We are staying with the amendments and we are looking for a vote for the simple reason we consider it, and that is the generally known fact that banks and Croatia, unfortunately, have very large profits and profits for most foreign banks. And we don't see any reason why banks in Croatia in such a big action for 12 months don't do those replacements without payment. Not a single one. And it's also another amendment to protect citizens. Why would banks make money? Somebody explain to me why banks would make no matter how much money they make on those swaps, he's gone. The fact that this was done in other countries is only about this banking team that has its advocates. Everywhere. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We're staying with the amendment, we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107377	And thank you for explaining to me how the procedure is going, very pretentiously given the length of your stay in the assembly and mine, but well that's also your right. But when you convince, you probably convince other MPs, not just the ruling ones. I just said that it can happen from time to time that someone calls out one side of why they don't have one, and then at the same time, they ignore that there are no representatives, so I'm just calling for collegiation. That was my intention. Comrade Selak Rasludic, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107378	In Article 238, the colleague warned of some failures in the procedure and I do not see any excuse for calling it pretentious, which is one statement condemning the MP's resignation. The question is whether she is right or wrong and whether she has the right to speak her mind, and it is not for you to grant qualifications whether that court is pretentious or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107379	And you weren't at all, so you came in like this now and you totally misread what happened between me and the MP, but okay. Okay. You weren't. Comrade William Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107380	Article 238, dissuasion of MPs. Yeah, I think what you called pretentious, I think it's in any case the demeaning of Councilwoman Raukar. And because you said ours isn't here either, let's just let your club have 33.3% because there's a third of us here. And if I did, you'd see it there, but if maybe 10% of your club, that would be significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107381	No, it's here as far as I see it 3 so it's less than 5% of our club still more than your 33%. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107382	Article 238, please don't make up any of the lies that disdain parliamentary deputies, I was there, and I listened to my colleague Raukar explain the procedure to you, and I didn't go anywhere, you see that I flew in through the window, and I went into the assembly to my workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107383	All right, let's not spread this debate any further, it doesn't make any sense, let's go back to the amendments. Now it's the Fourth Amendment's turn again Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107384	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, it is proposed that the amount of penalties for legal persons be linked to the percentage of the total income of the legal person achieved in the previous year because the penalties prescribed are considered to be too low for legal persons who have significant income. The introduction of a 2 % fine of the total income that the legal person made in the previous year is not optimal. Monetary penalties have been submitted in accordance with the applicable legislative framework governing the infringement of the legislation. It is noted that it is not the aim of punishing business entities but of the correct application of legal provisions and in accordance with the obligation to apply the principle of opportunistic warning of business entities to detect irregularities and illegality, under the obligation to remove them as soon as possible. Translated by this proposal, we would have an unpopular situation that because of the wrong conversion or miscalculated price someone pays a fine of up to 2% of the income, and if it's a small trade, then we know that income is not a relevant indicator and that, unfortunately, would be quite negative and perceived as a kind of repression again. We believe that Article 88 provides for penalties and more than enough, measures that are in line with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107385	Here you go, Comrade Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107386	Thank you. Mr President of the Parliament, I warmly advise you to proceed in the procedure of amending the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament so that a provision can be introduced to know how long a parliamentary representative or representative must spend in the Assembly in order to have the right to say something about the work of the Parliament. I think it's very important, so we know how to run ourselves. It's also very interesting to me, I'm going to study it anyway, these are some new achievements in mathematics where 10% is more than 33%. I'm sure I'll do that with Professor Bakic. [[The incursion president: No, not 5%.]] Thank you, thank you. [[The President's intrusion: 5% of 66 is more than 33% of 6.]] We heard everything. Yeah, like this. No, they're not extraordinary mathematical, but of course I'm not a mathematician, I'm just an actress, so I'm going to check it out with those who know that math better, really some new significant achievements. We stay with the amendment, we are asking for a vote on the grounds that such low sentences only allow for the misuse of the euro's introduction for unwarranted price hikes. I don't think it's necessary in this House to talk about how much and in what ways, over decades and decades, abuses and raises prices and hits citizens' standards for profit. Unfortunately, in this regard, we cannot recognise the solidarity of that community that puts prices and we cannot say with certainty that they will be solid in this great action. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107387	Thank you, too. Let me just tell you this, and I have to explain, now the math remains questionable. ... It won't be very soon. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So 5% of 66 is 3.3. 33% of 6 is 2.3, so 3.3 is more than 2.2. ... Bud, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's move on. We have another conclusion of the MOST Club which proposed the adoption of the next conclusion because the Croatian economy is structurally not ready for the introduction of the euro because of the general state of our economy, not implementing structural reforms, very low labour productivity growth, the absence of visible convergence of income, the absence of structural convergence, as well as the least questionable quality of our institutions, the Croatian Parliament postpones the vote on the final draft of the law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia until further notice. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107388	The conclusion is not accepted. In fact, each EU Member State decides on its own when to start the process of introducing the euro, taking into account both the economic benefits and the costs ratio. As we adopted the Euro Introduction Strategy in 2017, the expected benefits of the introduction of the euro to the Republic of Croatia are significantly higher than the expected costs. The benefits of introducing the euro concern the reduction of the risk of macroeconomic and financial stability, more favourable financing conditions, lower transaction costs, the elimination of currency risk and access to the European Stability Mechanism. What does that mean, exactly? These benefits should enable, or should be, stronger recovery or economic growth, increase economic efficiency and make the Republic of Croatia more attractive to investment. For branches of tourism, exports, borrowings, loans, for everything citizens would feel on their backs, this would benefit them. Also, due to the high degree of euroisation of the Croatian economy and the financial system, the benefits of the introduction of the euro in the Republic of Croatia should be relatively higher than in other Member States that introduced the euro as an official currency. While introducing the euro, the process itself as a long-term strategic project of the Republic of Croatia should be seen separately from current economic movements and from risks associated with pandemic and geopolitical turmoil at global level. So I'm the procedure when we talk about the law, and the events we're aware of should be, that is, a reason more why we should come under the European umbrella from all of these benefits that the euro zone provides to us in security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107389	Thank you. Would you like an indication on behalf of the MOST Club? Here's my colleague, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107390	Yesterday, we were able to listen to the address of Ursula von der Leyen about how we will finally get a significant financial assistance package, and she praised the incredible progress in our reforms, so we found out on the way that in Croatia there was a silent health reform that no one had yet felt. Why am I pointing this out? I do not know either of the Croatian citizens what exactly the negotiations were conducted and the arrangements made by our prime minister with EU leaders, but in a situation where you completely skipped Mr. Curaj's extreme economic instability certainly changed the currency is not a good move, and this is not a question of some of my personal assessment, but it is a matter of official criteria that are cited as necessary for the satisfaction that the euro could be introduced, specifically by the Mastricht criteria. He, in addition to knowing how much inflation we should be, wants to say the following, if inflation is high wait, high inflation is a dangerous situation for changing currencies. So, because of clearly different agreements within the EU, ignoring the completely current socio-economic situation, which is likely to make the euro fall even more, and even now it is not good on the market, we can see in the European Council reports that it is going by force at this crisis moment for the Republic of Croatia to push over the knee of the introduction of the euro. We are strongly opposed at this point because unfortunately the burden of this spiral of inflation will feel as they feel on their backs right now, Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u107391	Then we'll vote on that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u108833	We're going to the next point. It is - Selection, appointments and resolutions Please, colleague Radu Simičević, member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs to explain the proposals for decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u108834	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is technical stuff, so I hope I don't have to read all these names, right? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the following Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the members and the selection of members of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the HS. Secondly, the proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Agriculture HS. Number three, Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President and the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Committee on Representatives and Appeals of the HS. Number four, Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government in HS. And five, the proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Stocks, then said a member of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the HS Dragan Jeckov and two members of the Committee on Environment and Nature are elected Boris Milosevic. The decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Agriculture HS, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture HS, is elected on 29 April 2022 by Dragana Jeckov, member of the Committee on Agriculture, has ceased to act as Anja Simprag for the termination of the parliamentary term of office. The decision on the election of the vice-president and the end of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the HS, said that Boris Milosevic was elected on 29 April 2022, the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Representatives and Appeals, has ceased to act as Anja Simprag because of the termination of the parliamentary term. The decision to elect a member and terminate the term of office of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government in HS, as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, was elected on 29 April 2022 by Boris Milosevic, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, has ceased to act as Anja Simprag for the termination of the parliamentary term of office. The decision on the election of a member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Stocker's Council, as a member of the Trader's Council of the HS MP Boris Milosevic, on 29 April 2022, has ceased to act as a member of the Trader's Council from the line of representatives of the HS because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. And also the Committee for the Selection and Appointing of the President of HS on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 105.1 of the subst. 1st and 1st Article. 161st century 1st and Article 1st of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on the selection and appointment and administrative affairs of HS shall submit a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of HS and number two, a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Agriculture HS. The decision to elect a member of the European Affairs Committee HS, a member of the Committee on European Affairs HS, is elected Sanja Radolović and a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Agriculture HS, as member of the Committee on Agriculture HS is elected Martina Vlasic Iljkić on 15 June 2021, has ceased to act on behalf of Martin Grman Kizivat as a result of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-11-0.u108835	I thank my colleague Simičević's board member, I open the debate, no one answers, I conclude the debate, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. We're done with today's work, we'll continue work tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the address of the Secretary of State of the Holy Table of Cardinal Pietro Parolin. Have a good afternoon or the rest of the afternoon. SECURE Interrupted at 14.53 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:05 A.M.]] And as usual and provided for by the Rules of Procedure, we will now have a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
