ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96392	A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance in Hungary. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I see you're calling for a break, and then we'll stop voting. First call from a colleague, Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96393	The respected club MOST is looking for a break on this point. The MOST Club will support the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO activities in Hungary without further delay, but what we must warn, what and for what the public is seeking answers regarding our Armed Forces, related to this event, this accident that took place several hours ago. The public and we are looking for answers to a very simple question as to how it is possible for an unidentified aircraft to enter the Croatian airspace, be there for 7 minutes, fall into the populated territory of the capital of the Republic of Croatia and that no one reacts? Secondly, does this mean that Croatia does not have an anti-aircraft defence? Thirdly, does that mean that someone opened the airspace so that he didn't want to react on purpose as some speak now from the military? However, it is scandalous for us that there has been a situation in which our skies have been completely unprotected, that any aircraft has flown and crashed into the populated area of the capital that no one has responded and that for 12 hours there is absolutely no explanation. It's totally scandalous! And I would really ask the ruling, armed forces to give answers, to give clear and precise answers if they do not want to literally sow panic and fear among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96394	I believe that we all agree, all MPs and MPs, that we will get answers from the competent state institutions to the questions asked by fellow Petrov. I hope it was a random incident, and we need to know about the reactions of course from those in charge. So we expect as soon as possible to both the Chief Staff and the Ministry of Defense and all those involved in such operations to report exactly what happened. The apartment is approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96395	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the CENTR and GLAS Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. We will also support this decision, but we would also like to point out the absurdity of a situation in which 12 hours after the drone has fallen in the midst of the populated capital area our state summit sends an indication that it is a non-threatening incident, it is no longer a big deal. Well, fortunately, there were no human casualties. They're acting literally like it broke a pipe in the middle of Treshnyvka. I would also like to point to the fact that by communication, which in substance, by the very fact that two separate press conferences were held by the president of the state and the defence minister, neither, nor others, reduced the sense of uncertainty and anxiety among the citizens. The third thing I would like to point out is the fact that when I debated these activities of enhanced vigilance, I asked how much our minister who represented the position of the Republic of Croatia in February in Brussels is competent, how unsuspecting he is. We know that we have a problem with both of these concepts, and besides how much they even read the key information for making this decision, because this information certainly did not explain it in an act delivered to the Croatian Parliament. But now we have a new problem. I ask the question whether bad communication between the state summit has led to a failure, that we haven't seen in time where security failures are because the explanation that something flew for an hour over the member states of the NATO alliance, and that no one has taken anything quite certain right now for all our citizens is not an acceptable explanation. I therefore welcome the state summit to see where the problems are and to inform both the Croatian Parliament and the general public on a timely basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96396	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96397	2Thank you very much, esteemed President. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, I demand a 10-minute break on the same subject. You said you believed it was an accident. It can't be an accident. I can't take this phone right now and accidentally shoot Mr. Stier and guess, I'm talking figure, without colleagues Hasanbegovic and Prkacin seeing it. They don't see it because they're on their cell phone. That's right. So they didn't see either Hungarians or Romanians because they weren't watching. So that can't be an accident. If they're watching and watching Stier, by quotes I'm talking, if they're watching him, I can't hit him. I'll throw away my cell phone, Pracacin will raise his hand, Hasanbegovic, come on, but one will be raised by the two. I can't hit Stier. So this wasn't an accident. And if it fell somewhere on Sljemen, and I could still swallow it or I could swallow it if it were an accident. This fell to the centre of the NATO-member state's capital. That wasn't an accident. Sleeping with our services can be an accident, they sleep like that all the time. But what was NATO doing and what are we doing in such a NATO? And then is the story they've been selling us for ten years and they've sold me that we're safe because we're part of the NATO alliance. I think, and today's event confirmed that we are not safe because both Hasanbegovic and Prkacin, namely Hungary and Romania, sleep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96398	All right, my colleague Beljak would still refrain from commenting because it is a much more sophisticated thing than our colleagues who are catching cell phones so let's wait, let's wait with the investigation not to banish things and, as I have already said, we expect the competent institutions to report to the Croatian public what happened exactly. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96399	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc club, I am looking for a ten-minute break in order to consider once again this decision to send soldiers into NATO action to Hungary. First of all, I would like to stress that we view this decision strictly and only in the context of the solidarity objective with the certainty of our neighbouring countries and those countries that ultimately border with Ukraine in which war is at hand. It is also exclusively from the perspective of preventing further escalating conflicts in order to actually strengthen the sense of security that has been deeply disrupted by us. However, we are also looking at this decision in the context of certain international obligations taken by the Republic of Croatia within the security union, but once again we express our regret and urinate that Croatia within NATO strengthens its civilian component, and unfortunately today we have seen that the vision of security i.e. Last night, that notion of security that we have could be scattered very quickly. Namely, as all my colleagues have previously said, we have the right as parliamentary representatives, as citizens of this country expect us to get information and get an assessment of the situation as well as why this security incident occurred. We can also express our happiness that everyone else is alive and there are no human casualties, but also ask whether we should have a more detailed security assessment of the situation before we make this decision today, so we're looking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96400	The apartment is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96401	Thank you, Mr. President. Also on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, we are looking for a break related first of all to this item of the agenda, but the same with the incident that took place in Zagreb last night. We will vote on this decision because we want to ensure that all NATO member states support each other in order to strengthen and create collective security. Perhaps by that old principle, we are stronger together, and today we need to act. However, this does not mean that certain open issues that are particularly highlighted today are not to be spoken openly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tonight in Zagreb, a vessel that came from a war-torn area fell from the war, according to information we now have that vessel before falling to the capital of the Republic of Croatia over two NATO states and then more than legitimately asked how this could have happened and more than legitimately asked for answers, more than legitimately to require that this situation be cleared up as soon as possible. We need to urgently find out whose aircraft it was, where it was flying and how it was possible that it was in the airspace of the NATO State Alliance for almost an hour without responding during that period. It is fortunate that the vessel fell into the parking lot, that it fell 20 or 30 meters away, could fall to a dormitory, could fall to the skyscrapers on Domany Brothers Street. Human victims have been avoided by mere happiness, and this is not acceptable today. And another thing, when an incident like this happens, it's extremely important to inform the public immediately, not wait 12 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when something like this happens, people need to know what it is. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96402	Let's move on. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96403	On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we are also looking for a ten-minute break to consult on the incident that took place tonight. My colleagues and colleagues have made it clear that I am not repeating myself, the thing is that the aircraft of the size of one MiG-21 flew smoothly through two NATO pact member states and seven minutes in Croatia, and that no one reacted in a timely manner or AWACS was in function, neither the Patriot systems nor any other radar system in Croatia, although the minister says we have followed them for seven minutes, but on that basis. What remains open after all is the fact that the Ukrainians have denied that they would send that vessel, so there is only one option left or have done so with that part of the war of the affected Russian or some kind of adventurer. Both are disastrously bad for Croatia, happiness, thank God that the victims of human beings were gone. All this tells us that we must, and Croatian sovereigns today have sent a formal letter to the Defence Committee to consider the possibility of introducing a military deadline and raising the reserve composition highly specialized because people who need to monitor the radar are obviously too tired, too few of them must be strengthened among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96404	The apartment is approved. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96405	Thank you. So, Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club for a fair Croatia for ten minutes. So today, I'm also getting concerns about citizens, and the fact is that there's fear among them, some even say that an unidentified aircraft has been tracking two planes, so fear is deepening, and I think that citizens need to know the truth, what really happened and why it happened. Fear also arises for another reason, so there is a concern that this seed that is before us will not be maintained or done in the way that the ministry announces it. So, on all sides ruling us trying to spread optimism, however, the fact is that the prices of the repromaterials went up by a few hundred, hundreds or more times I'm talking about the purchases and up to 300, 400%. So, a large number of our farmers are calculating whether they are going to spend the money they currently have, and that means a possible food shortage for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the situation is very serious, so I hope that we will all have such a serious approach to every issue that is open today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96406	The apartment is approved. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96407	Thank you, Your Honor. Here I am looking on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 10 minute break to explain again why it is important that Croatia as a member of NATO with its partners is American and European right in Hungary with the Croatian military standings, why this is important today and because of the security situation not only happening in Eastern Europe but from the past of the Croatian state. As far as the vessel itself is concerned, the defence minister himself made it clear that the vessel was monitored the moment it entered the airspace of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues, once again, do not panic from the assembly to our citizens. Croatia is a safe country, a NATO member and let the services make it clear that you have found yourself laughing, you...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96408	What's funny? I don't think it's a laughing matter. Please, please, just a little colleague Deur, let's be serious. So I think she went through Hungary no one reacted, so we only had seven minutes. I wouldn't, I wouldn't do this, I wouldn't make jokes because it's a serious thing. You have all debated very seriously, and we have also asked as a council that the competent state authorities and institutions that are in charge of this as soon as possible and as soon as possible inform the public about what happened. But let's not laugh. None of you know much about that job, nor... I'm sorry that said by the President of the Republic how much I've been reported, like, supremely, as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So why are you laughing at me that's not clear. Here you go, colleague Deur, let's not laugh.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96409	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I appeal to my colleagues that they truly have respect and trust in Croatian security services, the Ministry of Defence that will report I believe in this whole process that has been happening. Let's not panic, we're all worried, sure it's serious. We all agree, but we allow Croatia as a member of NATO and a serious Croatian army with all institutions to report both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public in time and quality. Give it so much, don't do activists on very serious things and your personal act of politics. It is something dangerous and at this point I think it is not in the interest, if you are already in the Croatian Parliament, trust in the institutions that you are happy to come to the institution, and you show no confidence in other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96410	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96411	Article 238, I agree with my colleague Deur that it is unserious of the left opposition who laughs in such a serious situation, but it is also very unserious of you to say that everything is fine because if the real question is whether Croatia has an anti-aircraft defence of short range and whether we are in the seven minutes spoken of by the President of the Croatian Parliament could react that we wanted to react. That's the real question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96412	Thank you, comrade Grumoja, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I won't even give you any warning, let's wait for those who are much more qualified than we really are, that we're not really doing this political debate now. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96413	Thank you. Article 238, where not only are they offended, is it not only insulting the common sense of all MPs but the entire nation. So, to say after what happened that Croatia is a perfectly safe country that we should trust the institutions it is an insult to me personally, I trust all parliamentary deputies, and even those from the ruling majority who have to raise their hands for, and what Grumoja said was funny was tragic, tragic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96414	Thank you, fellow Beljak, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96415	In 238, the Honorable President, so I'm sure it's a serious thing, we're all aware of that, I'm just saying that we have to believe in the institutions that are working on the investigation and wait for a quality investigation that can make it clear to all of us as accurately as possible. Let's not be so insecure and activism do things like this. Mr. Beljak, you are a tragedy throughout the HSS and the entire system. When it comes to you, we can pray to God and not even look at you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96416	All right, let's go now, please. Okay, wait a minute. Just a little bit please colleagues and colleagues, let's stop now with this unnecessary debate that turns into a mutual bickering without any sense, and let the institutions see what it is, that those who are in charge of it in due time, as quickly as possible report to the public what has happened. Let's not, it won't, what we're doing isn't useful. This isn't useful. Comrade Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96417	Injury of the Rules of Procedure because Article 238, however, is injured, because offended colleagues from the opposition who were in a dilemma whether to laugh or to poster about what happened. Let's imagine the aircraft accidentally hit the mother with a baby in a wheelchair? Would you say the same words that match now? I am giving up my breach of the Rules of Procedure and appeal to the parliamentary majority to behave responsibly in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96418	Okay. Comrade Thunderbolt again, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96419	Therefore, Article 238 was injured. Apparently, my colleague Beljak and I didn't get it right. I agree with him that it is tragic that this has not responded, but the same question is raised to you as to whether Croatia could react at all, whether we have an anti-aircraft defence of short range and why part of the left opposition always takes away the money intended for the Croatian military from the amendments to the budget. That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96420	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Now you're opening up a whole new topic. Let's not do that. Here's my colleague, Beljak, and I'm really asking you to stop arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96421	Thank you very much. I have to react. 238. So first because I'm personally mentioned, I'm personally mentioned by a man who's part of a powerful criminal organization who's going to call me for anything. And secondly, Mr. Grmoya, if you're at war, take your rifle, go to Ukraine to defend Ukraine. Don't send any politicians from a comfortable chair to war, raise budgets, etc. If you have a gun in your hands, in Ukraine, it's no problem. And don't call and burn the fire extra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96422	My colleagues and colleagues, are you aware of what you are doing now? So we have a vote on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's activities and strengthened vigilance in Hungary. Wait a minute! We've had a very unpleasant incident that we don't yet know exactly what happened and what are the reasons whether there were any intentions, is it an accident? And now you're having a very, very low discussion. So let's not do it! So we throw a very ugly light at the Croatian Parliament itself. Let us be responsible at this time, seriously and send a message to our citizens that the Croatian Parliament is a place where we will have a serious debate and serious policy in such difficult times. I invite you all to calm down. Here it is. Thank you for pulling the Rules of Procedure's injuries now. Comrade Hrebak, here you go. Please stick to the subject and really be serious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96423	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. That's what I thought, so stick to the subject. We'll also support it as a club. But I wanted to point out the same thing and join your words, so we can put our tensions down a little bit and still keep in mind. I agree that in times like this, no strategic, important decisions are made but that we are aware that freedom is very important. And to ensure freedom, we need security. We never remember safety in peacetime. Someone will tell you why the liberals are now focusing on the security issue. I'll just say that at this point, the German Liberals are asking the German Bundestag to invest a hundred billion euros in security policy. So all this coming from the left and right side of the spectrum is legitimate. This is a very unpleasant incident, but let's think about it I'd say rationally, sober, calmed heads and talk, remember now why, for example, we were getting planes, why we were getting Bradleys, why Croatia has to invest, so if you want to go anti-aircraft defense. If I remember the last major investment in the anti-aircraft defense was '97. And now we're surprised that things like this happen to us. So drones are something that belongs to the 21st century and it's not just that easy to destroy a drone. We can invest a lot more resources in our defense, our security to have democracy, to have this kind of freedom. Here I am praying to everyone, joining the words of the President of the Parliament that I would still say that we should approach this topic rationally and not raise tensions about this topic because we are all left and right, so here we Liberals are also aware of how uncomfortable this has been for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96424	Thank you. We're going to vote now. I stress that Article 7(6) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance in Hungary. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 118 were against and 1 was against, so a decision was taken on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's activities and strengthened vigilance in Hungary. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the ongoing structured EU cyber-cooperation project for rapid response and mutual assistance in cyber-security. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. And here, in accordance with Article 7(6). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires most of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 120 votes for the decision to take on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces on activities under the EU's ongoing structured cooperation project, cyber-response teams and mutual assistance in cyber security.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96943	Good morning, everyone. Here, as announced, we will begin with our first point, which is: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go. I advise everyone to read the Rules of Procedure, please. Here you go, Madam Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96944	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, allow the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality to present the report on work for the 2020 report. '20. We have been marked by major challenges related to the implementation of activities from the institution's jurisdiction primarily because of the Covida-19 pandemic and because of the severe earthquake that was in Zagreb at the 3rd month, at the 12th month in Sisak, Petrinja, so that the attorney institution's office has been significantly damaged and thus forced us into a significant reorganization of the office's work. Regarding the crisis caused by the pandemic of the disease, we warned that it must not in any way send an excuse for ignoring or marginalising social problems related to gender equality, primarily related to domestic violence because it could precisely be a fertile ground for their deepening or spread. The report on work for 2020 sets out the annual work of the institution, the cases we have received, and they point to certain trends related to discrimination based on gender, marital, family status, motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity, in the areas of social security employment, family, education, political participation, media, sports and access to goods and services. In the '20s. We worked together on 1993 items of which 515 were complaints of citizens where they sought protection from discrimination, while most other cases concerned the application and monitoring of the Law on Gender Equality. The specificity of this reporting period is the participation of the institution as the holder or partner organisation in 6 projects financed by EU funds or international sources. By conducting the test procedure, we received the required evidence mainly within the deadlines set, we issued around 1441 decisions in terms of warning of the proposal and recommendations which were respected in the high 91% of the cases completely, while only 4% were deafened to our warnings where we subsequently requested the conduct of inspection bodies. We also learned about violations of the Law on Gender Equality, but who had the characteristics of a criminal offence, we filed criminal charges in 3 cases to the State's Attorney's office. We have regularly followed the publication and consultation of the resolution bodies, the adoption of laws and other regulations, and have made observations to the applicants on 14 regulations. We conducted 4 independent studies, 2 research on gender-based discrimination in sport, third research focused on testing the gender pay gap and pensions in the private and public sector and the fourth research aimed at defending women's health care through results at the time of the covida-19 pandemic. We have made 7 analyses to monitor and implement the law in different areas of life and work. We prepared and published 4 publications in the framework of the European project, carried out 4 memorandas of the cooperation agreement on education that we signed with the Police Academy, the Ministry of Defence, the Faculty of Law clinic in Zagreb and the Electronic Media Agency. We were members of the 3 working groups of national and 3 working bodies of which we established and chaired with one working body, and this is about the femicid leader of the observation body established in 2017. We organised one on our own and co-organized two conferences, organized eight education lectures. The Ombudsman’s visibility has contributed to the maintenance of 5 websites that have been reviewed in more than 2 million and 290 times. As in earlier years, complaints were related to the protection of women in 76% of cases, classified by gender-based discrimination in 84% of cases, sexual orientation 4%, gender identity 4%, family status 3%, marital status less than 1%, other grounds established by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in 2%, while there was no basis for treatment in 4%, which is significantly less than before 7, 8 or 10 years ago. The damaged persons were gender-classified, women were in 76%, men in 20% and male in 4%. Citizens complained about the conduct of the MUP in 15% of cases, the Social Care Centre 15%, other legal entities 12%, the media 11%, health institutions 9%, public administration bodies 8%, education institutions 3%, local, regional and regional self-government units 3%. The analysis shows that they were all related to direct discrimination, none to indirect discrimination, which means that this guarantee did not come into practice and that it was not recognised. According to the areas of discrimination, the biggest area of complaints is in the field of labour and employment, labour rights, social security, social care, pension and health insurance, which accounts for a share of 62% and points to the sustainability of this trend, for example in 2019 it was 65%. Appeals on public information and media, on health care, on justice and on other areas. As every year, acting on complaints and personal initiative, we acted proactively at all levels of state administration, in the area of most units of local, regional and regional self-government including other legal and physical persons, as well as working with the media. In territorial terms, the largest number of complaints comes from the City of Zagreb as much as 44%. This is greatly contributed by the fact that the Ombudsman does not have a single district office outside the City of Zagreb, we rely exclusively on the conduct and visibility of the county committees for gender equality our direct contacts with citizens outside Zagreb are organised during visits to counties, cities, municipalities and county commissions. Other counties do not cross complaints more than 10% which we think is good if we look at the situation from 10 years ago where individual counties were almost 0% with their complaints. So we've expanded our visibility to almost all units. Statistics suggest that for many years we have faced the highest number of complaints of women for discriminatory treatment in all segments of society which makes up a constant of about 2/3 complaints. Because of the above, we are most often guided by solving problems and obstacles faced by women today in society. In fact, they represent a social group that is faced with discrimination on the basis of gender, mostly motherhood, family status in the social, public, private sphere, but also in other areas, as we will see further, further interpretation. During the pandemic, there was a significant increase in domestic violence of a criminal legal nature that moved 29 to 39%. Women remain in the vast majority of the victims of domestic violence. In order to really achieve change and reverse negative trends, all stakeholders, and here we think primarily of professional bodies dealing with both prevention and resociation, law enforcement bodies, state attorneys, the judiciary, but also the health and education system of their actions should adapt to best international practices. This primarily means ensuring effective preventive mechanisms, zero tolerance for violence, especially through a penal justice policy that must be stronger, with a stronger message, ensuring continuous and systematic education at all social levels and implementing the resociation of the perpetrators. In the last two years, we've had an increase of over 50% of the women killed, we're talking about femicide, into two key parameters. In the total number of women killed and the number of women killed by intimate partners. With the violence in the family of victims of partner violence in 2020, they still did not have adequate legal protection. We proposed certain legislative solutions that were in '21. Respected. Most complaints are received in the field of labour, employment, social security, as I have already said. Because of the Covid situation, the number of admissions to the employment office has increased by 51%. Over 85% of the employees in the employment records went from working relationship. It was the expiry of a work contract at a specified time or on business terms and conditions. With the highest contribution, the largest increase of 436% was due to a drastic increase in the number of business conditions. The expiry of the labour contract was in 62% of cases exclusively for women. In the end, 37% more women than men remain outside of working relationships. Women tended to complain most of the time because they also made up most of the unemployed, most of them in the underpaid sectors, most of them as victims of sexual harassment at work, most of them coming across a glass ceiling, difficult to reconcile family and business, me in wages and what we have witnessed for years was once in the first place age, so motherhood, so sexual harassment. Trends have changed. Now women experience an obstacle solely because of motherhood, then because of their age, and then because of sexual harassment. As a result, after the decision to declare the epidemic, complaints came to the citizens about the behaviour of employers and the possibility of bringing business and private life into line. In most cases, the employer’s will depended on the possibility of parents providing children with adequate care during the termination of school and kindergarten work. Therefore, we have publicly and individually urged employers to establish family-oriented policies involving work on distances, changing working hours, flexible working hours, using paid and unpaid holidays, annual holidays and using government support to preserve jobs all according to guidelines and the International Labour Organisation and UNICEF which spoke of such measures and policies as we have both translated and delivered to the public and employers. The lockdown measures led to an increase in unpaid work mainly by women including care for family members and care for schooling children from home. In recent years, political will has been strongly expressed in Croatia to approach demographic politics systematically and versatilely. We support all of these demographic measures, especially measures relating to increasing the amount of cash support during the application of birth leave rights, but we continue to advocate full decommissioning of fees. The Republic of Croatia remains among the EU Member States where fathers and men use maternity, parental support. A significant fall of 50% was compared to 19th, so 8% fell to 4%. We continued to point out on a continuous basis that fathers do not use to a sufficient extent the right to maternity leave, to transfer a significant part of their right to mothers and that the balance between business and private life remains a major problem for many parents who have an obligation to care for children, according to the elderly, which negatively reflects on the position of women on the labour market, their employment, and in some cases a complete exclusion from the labour market. Which is why it is necessary to develop the availability, capacity of social services and public services to which we have appealed to the local community. In the field of family relations, parental care has often shown dissatisfaction with the decision on parental care of the competent authorities, centres and courts, passiveness, failure to take adequate and urgent measures of the competent centres while mothers pointed to the lack of sensitivity of professionals related to domestic violence who had previously been exposed in their family partner communities as well as a worse life situation. When we talk about the rights of gender and gender minorities, we hold that given the adoption of the European strategy for LGBTQ persons in '20-25. that it is necessary to urgently adopt a national policy to protect and promote human rights and combat discrimination, the Protocol on the treatment of hate crime committed in '21, to step up the action of the Working Party on the tracking of hate crimes, to regularly conduct education on the subject of crime for representatives of all law enforcement bodies, to promote tolerance towards gender minorities in all areas of social life, and to continuously point to the need to improve the collection of statistics with which we have major problems, and we have pointed out this in our report. During the reporting year, we received complaints from transgenders concerning discrimination on the basis of gender identity in the provision and availability of health services in the field of labour, employment, prison system, culture, etc. In the field of education, we have acted on complaints from citizens on the use of native sensitive language, sexism, gender stereotypes, aimed at promoting equality in the STEM area, insisting on a consistent implementation of educational content prescribed by the new curricula for primary and secondary schools, among the subject of civic education and education. In our report, we have a set of social groups and their problems that are subject to multiple discrimination and the risk of multiple discrimination, these are women in rural areas, women with disabilities, members of national minorities, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, damage to the crime of prostitution and victims of human trafficking. Appeals on media content that were extremely high in the '20s, if we take into account this and that we had parliamentary elections, indicate that both citizens and citizens are increasingly critical of how women and men are shown in public space and that they are increasingly critical of the objectification of women's body and advertising, sexisms in public space, therefore, and generally women in politics. On the other hand, we can conclude that there has been an improvement in the media report on violence against women and femicide compared to the period 2012-2016 observed, and according to our guidelines of the media code signed by numerous media houses and portals. We remind women that women are under-represented at all levels of political participation, remains a challenge for women to participate in the bodies of political power. After the parliamentary elections in HS, 23% of women were elected, which is the largest share so far. In the year they marked activities aimed at gender discrimination in sport, we published the results of research on youth violence, we confirmed the widespread spread of negative stereotypes about athletes, about women's sports, and we pointed to certain sexually unequal conditions for sports. Finally, on the basis of civil and citizen complaints and research and analysis carried out in our report, we provide 83 case descriptions, 122 recommendations to the Government and HS, we believe that they will be considered, applied in the current year, and all in order to improve the achievement of the constitutional principle of gender equality. In view of the delay in reporting, some recommendations have already been adopted, and some of them remain current. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96945	Thank you very much. Here's to your presentation we have 29 replicas almost all present in the hall expressed their desire for replicas, so let's take it in order. Dear representative Maric first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96946	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my dear Ombudsman for the comprehensive oral report and for these written reports and the extensive and summary. We politicians should be an example to our citizens, but here you say 162 warnings are addressed to political parties in 2020. 162 recommendations and 162 proposals. In previous parliamentary elections of 168 political parties, you say 69 went to the polls, with 42 fully respecting the principle of gender equality. Does this number of recommendations, suggestions and warnings apply only to election activities, so running lists, media appearances, or can you quote anything else in that issue? And have we improved anything since the local elections were as short as they were? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96947	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96948	I thank you. So working with political parties is a major challenge especially to apply political quotas has proved to be a major challenge. Our warnings and recommendations always go ahead of parliamentary, local or euro parliamentary elections where we warn, and political parties to the application of quotas, and these are all registered political parties, regardless of whether they will run, will not run, will we form lists or not, and we also warn of dignified expressions without discriminatory grounds, without sexism, without the discrimination of political opponents or opponents, and we refer this to all registered political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96949	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96950	Thank you. The esteemed lawyer, therefore, has an average of 6.1% of the EU member states with the highest prerogative rate, if we all know that overwork is contrary to decent work that institutions can do in its repression and whether you are satisfied with what has been achieved so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96951	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96952	Of course, often an employer violates multiple possibilities, such as the Labour Law. We have situations where individual employers every time a woman stays pregnant, works for a certain time, gets fired, promises her a job, and five times can be admitted after childbirth or after some job shortages at that workplace, for almost 20 years she works for a certain time. How is it possible that labour inspections didn't work at that time? When we reacted with an inspection of work against such employers we had no success I must admit. My high expectations are from the Labour Act, which must be more strictly sanctioned by employers who violate the existing provisions of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96953	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96954	Thank you, Vice President. Your esteemed attorney, this report of yours must be comprehensive, and I think it covers all areas that need to be highlighted. What is good is that in certain areas you offer solutions to increase one, equality and equality, and I am glad that in certain areas you have led us to see improvements. In the report, you also state that you have no district offices outside the City of Zagreb, but at the county and local levels there are commissions, the gender equality committees are acting, and can you tell us now whether you have co-operation with these committees, what kind of cooperation is in your opinion. You also noted in the presentation that statistics show greater visibility at the county level for the last 10 years and whether it has any connection to the work of the county commissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96955	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96956	With regard to political turnout, it is hardly possible to find a link with the county commissions that are particularly more active, some are less active, and some are almost stagnating, vegetating. We have 21 county commissions including the City of Zagreb which means that cooperation with them as an institution can be present almost locally in the entire Republic of Croatia. However, the county commissions often depend on the leaders of the commission. Some are delegated to lead the commission by official duty, some have more enthusiasm, some less enthusiasm, so here with some we have better cooperation, some we have concrete mini projects while some we almost cooperate with exclusively online or through correspondence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96957	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, I thank you for paying particular attention to your report to women addicts as a particularly vulnerable and marginalized group. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we cannot be satisfied with the current state of affairs in the matter of providing services to women addicts. We still do not have specific approaches, they are developing, but here I would especially point out one European project so specific social needs for pregnant women and mothers of addicts who are being implemented in the organization of the Humanitarian Community meeting and which should actually be in some way a good preparation for the establishment of a house for mother and child. So, specific houses for women addicts and here I ask you for help and support in the realization of this important project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96959	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96960	I thank you for the problem of dealing with this issue of women addicts because there are individuals who believe that too much importance is given to women addicts compared to only 1,500 in the '20s. Compared to 6,000 and some male addicts, addicts. However, both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the international community recognized the multiple complexity and vulnerability of addict women because they are very difficult to apply for treatment because of the fear of losing children and children and often do not have the support of their family. What is problematic for their accommodation in the case of violence or in the case of partner violence that women civil society organisations often do not receive such persons in their shelters for security and for peace, so the development of other traumatised persons in shelters. So there is an initiative as well as a beautiful example has Slovenia that they have a special house for women who are addicts and who come alone or with their children. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96961	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96962	Excuse me, Vice President. As Attorney General, you signed an agreement, four agreements relating to education with the Ministry of Defence, and with the Agency for Electronic Media. How's the cooperation going? What was done here and are you satisfied? Are there any shifts?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96963	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96964	Absolutely, thank you for asking, I am absolutely pleased with the education that we have spent systematically for 10 years at the Police Academy. The Ministry of Defence called us on its own initiative because at one point they noticed that there was an increased number of cases of reported domestic violence by the Ministry of Defence employees where they felt that education was needed by the prosecutor for gender equality. We now have the last project related to sexual harassment in peacekeeping missions and armed forces where there is a hierarchy system and where the unequal relationship between men and women is. With the Agency, the Council for Electronic Media, certainly because our theme is the same, monitoring and monitoring as our media situation, advertising and showing certain social issues, and with the legal clinic, so every year we get 10 to 20 students working with us on cases where we mentor them, it's just like they're working on some kind of court where they see procedures, trials. In what way will you act... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96965	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96966	Your Honor's Attorney General. Somewhere around 2,000 cases have been launched by your office, a quarter of which are citizens' complaints, your initiative remains. Do you think that citizens have been sufficiently identified by the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality and what can be done to further popularize the office so that citizens more address their problems and report possible cases of discrimination? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96967	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96968	2,000 items on such a small office that it has, I would say, a narrow scope of activity, where you have a diapazon institution of the attorney general who deals with 14 discriminatory grounds is something that gives a much wider visibility. In addition, the institution, for example, of a 30-year-old female lawyer, has existed for 20 years, and, of course, the issue of gender equality is still not the constitutional principle of gender equality, and that a small number of citizens know that they could address the institution of a prosecutor who oversees and monitors state institutions. 515 cases of citizens were related exclusively to complaints where they believe there has been discrimination in cases involving the conduct of state institutions, local administrations, etc., however, they do not include complaints from citizens relating to the provision of some other legal help with information, legal advice, explanations. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96969	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96970	Thank you. Dear Advocates, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence since 2017-2022. stressing inter-resorship cooperation between different bodies dealing with protection and prevention of violence. Among others are cities and municipalities and county and 2018. The Agreement on Inter-resorship Cooperation was signed on the basis of which national and county teams were established to prevent and combat violence against women and families. One of your recommendations was to commit units of local self-government and county to issuing funds to finance shelters, but also to introduce a gender-sensitive budget. And since you have an office in Zagreb only, what is the co-operation with the counties on the allocation of money to the shelter budget and everything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96971	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96972	I thank you for asking. So now we're in '21. did an analysis of how many units of local, regional (regional) self-government singled out, we did one in 2014, the second in 2017 one in '21. They're constants less than 1%. So in their areas they finance shelters, legal counselling centres related to domestic violence less than 1%. There is not a rich state that, based on the state budget, can allocate funds for the survival of the shelter, especially if we know it's just this year 2020. Founded six more shelters, in 2020 we had 25 of them, means that this is an extremely necessary sensitivity for understanding both users and those who provide the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96973	Dear representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96974	Your Honor's Attorney General. So my question also refers to the care and support of women who are victims of domestic violence. The practice so far clearly shows that this depends primarily on the engagement of the persons who lead them because according to this system neither the state nor the local self-government units have any fixed fully clear obligation in which and how and how to finance it. So, it all comes down to the good will that any county or city of funds will single out, and in the end these spaces are mostly inadequate, there often live and abused women, very often children, so lack of financial resources for basic things, lack of legal and psychological assistance. Your recommendations are there, your response to the previous replica was clear, but as apart from these recommendations, how to force both the state and the units of local self-government to put it into the system, it must be system and obligation, not their goodwill. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96975	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96976	What we have been proposing for years is that a normative framework must be adopted, the Law on the financing of shelter, counselling, so we must not be left to the goodwill or budgets of a particular county or city. I have to say that it happens according to our analysis that the counties that have at least the financial budget often invest more and stand out more in terms of their budget in shelters and counselling centres than some perhaps countys that have more resources do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96977	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96978	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor's Attorney General. From your comprehensive report on work for 2020. I noticed that you worked intensively with the authorities of the state administration and units of local and regional (regional) self-government despite the pandemic of covida-19. You said that some county committees for gender equality are more active and less active. So here's how I come from Brod-Posavina County, what kind of cooperation is with this county commission and how you might improve cooperation with less active county environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96979	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96980	I thank you for asking. You said the county was which? We have good cooperation there because we also have women civil society organisations that are very active and participate in the work and motivation of the county commission. I'm going to mention the "Delfin" women's group she's in your county. It's not? ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In Požega-Slavonska, I can't remember what the organization is now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We were in your county and some of the less active counties were, for example, the continental part between Zagreb and Dalmatia, something south of Dalmatia. Here's what I'd say is that they've just been established and maybe it's time for them to get along a little better. I say from mandate to mandate depends on what structure it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96981	Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96982	Thank you. You said that the territorial observation of the largest number of complaints comes from the Zagreb area, that co-operation with the committees, the county committees for gender equality are more or less successful depending on enthusiasm. If you could open two district offices tomorrow, where would you do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96983	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96984	Two district offices where we think it is extremely necessary for Split, because we have an area for example of Sibenik-Knin County where their county commission has been poor, and we do not have any civil society organisation that would deal with women's spectrum of rights or empowerment of women. Zadar County, too, is bad with civil society organisations that would deal with the issue and in some way encourage the county commission. Let's say Osijek and Split or Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96985	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96986	Thank you very much, Vice President. In order to strengthen the voice of women in today's society, the prominent presence of women in the media and politics in times of crisis caused by covid-19 is extremely important, but these war horrors also play a more important role in the media. Realising that social perceptions, media images sometimes strengthen gender stereotypes, they include perception of how women should behave, what to wear, what interest to choose. The media is an unforgivable factor in the process of positive change and promoting equality. Do you think that's how it is in our media space? Is there room for advancement? What as a society, as a public figure, can we still do to improve the position of women?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96987	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96988	Certainly what we have witnessed unfortunately had to react in individual cases, that public figures, political officials, therefore public life, public work in public space often perpetuate gender stereotypes, often testify to certain sexisms, and even to call for hatred, so that I hold that politicians and politicians, all those who deal in public action, can do very much to respect, to tolerance, to include the constitutional principle of gender equality with all of this spectrum that we have talked about today, and that is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96989	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96990	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here, in the context of your exposure, I must mention a positive legal regulation and a provision that prohibits the difference between the height in the salaries of men and women, of course, provided that it is done under the same jobs and jobs of the same value, of course, and with a note that there must be a prerequisite for sufficient, if the salary should be equal, and that is, for example, the tax, where that man is registered, etc. However, the fact that we have a positive legal regulation and an extremely valuable provision of 91 of the Labour Act that prohibits discrimination does not mean that everything is ideal in society, so I am interested in knowing that you have been investigating how many complaints you have made in this regard and what does your research say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96991	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96992	Well, it's hard for me to say right now in this one minute, to answer that question, but we've really worked through our European research with both employers and employees. I must say that often employees, or employees themselves, don't complain to the employer about unequal conditions, unequal wages, unequal opportunities out of fear that they won't be understood, or that nothing will change. But as soon as they've talked to us, they're aware of their rights, so it's something that shows us that we have to continue to insist on raising awareness of the public problem and that when we talk about the pay gap, we can't plastically see that two people who work in the same positions don't have the same pay. It's not so imagined, because the pay gap is a multidisciplinary one problem that depends on both the rate of progress, the rate of progress, the determination of the coefficient in certain pay classes, the possibilities of education, how many there are in the management positions, and then we get to that particular pay gap. in a particular social environment [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] But the labour market is the most Turbulent thing for a woman. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96993	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96994	Thank you very much. Here's the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, and I can see that you're following it very well. It means from 2017 to 2022, and that's where the big shift is seen. So six new shelters for victims of violence are established, and I think you need to introduce as much funding as possible to bring these women's shelters into all the counties, and now just tell me, I'm interested in how you think should be educated because domestic violence is one terrible thing, one terrible tragedy for every family. And I think that in some ways these perpetrators, too, would motivate women to report as much and how to educate them, or help these families reduce this violence. It is evident that there are more men who are violent and simply allow them to be taught in some way about this violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96995	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96996	You have opened the issue and the financing of shelters, counselling sites, and you have raised the question of the possibility of reporting victims to report as much violence as possible, the possibility of accommodation and mode of work. What I can say is that it is important for each county and every unit of local, regional and regional self-government to take care of home budgeting. When we talk to mayors and mayors and mayors then they say you know at this point we can't redistribute funds if we have problems with infrastructure, so we have problems with this, so we have problems with that and we don't have enough resources to give or increase funds for shelters and consultations or civil society organisations that in the local area can very much help women with administrative advice in enabling and judicial proceedings and help victims who are in court proceedings, so that's something that I would say is connected and really depends on the sensitization of political stakeholders. on the political will of the local community to address the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm sorry, a lot of questions, a little time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96997	Dear, honourable representative Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96998	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Advocates, in their report for 2020 You stated that there was a 50% reduction in the use of so-called father's leave in that year. I have not found a reason or at least your interpretation of why this has happened and I am also interested in what your office will do about the promotion of this right, as well as the promotion of the announced statements of the law and the application of the European Directive on 10 working days or paid days that we will believe to be very nearly by 7 months. And today I regret leaving my wife and mother to my mother and mother for the first day of parental care instead of supporting them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96999	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97000	In 2020, right at the time of covid, we recorded 50% of the fathers who used these options, but you have to bring them into line with all those numbers where I told you that at the end of the day your wife couldn't get the flexibility of working time, and they were usually out of work because of those 64% of the women who had been given a labor contract and 436% more of those who had been fired, so these are all opportunities for you when the woman was pregnant, she was pregnant, or she was using maternity or parental leave, and the fathers didn't use those opportunities they had. As for, therefore, this is your correlation, and therefore we see this connection, in 37% more cases women remained outside the labour market in 2020 because of the covids. As far as father's leave is concerned, we expect the government to include it in its legislation on maternity and parental permits and support, so at least that minimum of 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97001	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97002	Thank you, Chairman. We recently changed an entire set of laws in the field of social care, including the Household Law, in our assembly. The law does not reflect the Constitutional Court's ruling on fostering same-sex couples. I'm interested in your office's position on this, and do you consider that a lack of law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97003	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97004	So our position on the Household Law is clear, the civil society organisations that have so launched and asked for the opinion of the Constitutional Court have been guided by our position. The Household Law, therefore not adoption, refers to foster care, social services according to the fostering of children, older persons and other social groups. Therefore, we believe that it must be given to all users who will therefore use the possibility of such a single service to give them equal opportunities because it is a public service, a public service, a service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97005	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97006	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. The esteemed Ombudsman, the Republic of Croatia, has ratified the Istanbul Convention and entered into force on 1.10 when the Council of Europe adopted 2018. Of course, we all expected a lot, and I personally was a member of the government, and otherwise I advocated ratification of this very important international document and, of course, we all expected very much from it. These days, so in February, the government sent a first report to a greystone in which on the 180 pages it brought out everything that is good, which is done, which leads to the protection against women and family violence, and at the same time we have a report in the shadow of NGOs that, of course, points out what has not been done, so I would say it's kind of a glass full and half empty, but together they make up one whole. What is your position on the efforts and implementation of this Convention?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97007	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97008	The Istanbul Convention is a set of tools that need to be united both in the criminal legal sphere and through shelters, through counselling centres, through education, through legal assistance when we talk about the problem of gender-related violence or domestic violence and this complex problem that suppresses both legislation, social structure, health structure, persecution bodies, establishment, and therefore went to the establishment of all these shelters and units for the accommodation of all these victims who will be territorially distributed is something that needs first nomotechnical and technical work to later see which benefits. However, we can establish all this unless there is an education of professionals and it is a systematic education, and not a study of the Stychi, we can talk continuously about the further improvement of all that we have put on our feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97009	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97010	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we've been discussing the 2020 report here today. I greatly appreciate your work and we see through these reports some shifts, of course, that's a snail step but every shift is welcome, but I really can't take the impression or need to refer to the current current current situation, which is 2022. While we are here discussing and discussing the report at the border are from Ukraine women with little children to whom all the tips of this world are lurking. From human traffickers to human organs traffickers to those who see these women in prostitution without saying that they don't see them in prostitution either. Part of these refugees also come to Croatia. We don't need to be fooled that people like that and that they're bad for you, I don't know what word to use elsewhere. They're also here. I am interested in whether there are certain activities at EU level at all or some of the activities at your office level to take care of all these lurking scriptures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97011	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97012	Thank you for updating this problem that we witness on a daily basis where we are involved in two inter-resor working groups. An inter-resor working group established by the government and a special task force co-ordinated by the Red Cross Directorate. We are in the first together with other bodies, and in the second, we are together with civil society organisations that have come to us and are interested in the topic. What we first signaled to civil protection and to the MUP, so to the leader who leads the inter-resor working group, the problem of rape women who come, who are raped during the road and who come to the borders of our countries, and those women who are a potential victim of trade, not only of men, women and children, because of those sexual exploitation today, we already distinguish from six different types of exploitation from labour to forced labour, forced action. Irregular parts, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We've already done it. The brochures, the information, and we've already organized ourselves on the ground, we'll see how it goes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97013	Honorable representative and vice president of Sabina Vosovac's assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97014	Thank you very much. As we can see from your report in 2020, you were the holder of a large EU project called Equal Rights, Equal Payments, Equal Pensions, where, after the research and educational activities of the project, you were one important draft of a strategic document called the Guidelines of the National Legislative Framework for Equal Payments and Pensions in the Republic of Croatia, in which you made recommendations for the creation of a national legislative framework on possible standards, positive measures and actions to achieve gender equality on the labour market and pension system with the aim of reducing the risk of poverty for women, which we understand that it has been exceptional so far, and it will be particularly important in the coming period when we see that inflation on the standard of citizens pays, and hence on women is extremely high. My question to you is, a task force currently working on the Labour Act, since you are a logical part of it, how much are your recommendations in the same respect?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97015	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97016	You mean the working group about amending the Labour Act, yes. Unfortunately, we've been informed by the resolution body, the task force is very small with a small number of participants, we've asked to be involved in it, they've asked us to make a written statement with such a request. We have also suggested a written way of considering exactly the segments that are important to us, which is transparency in progress, transparency in, in determining wages, the inability to give out work contracts for women who have returned from maternity leave for at least a year today. So there are some sets of measures that we want to be built into that law. We'll see how much of this, the task force is just in motion, so she hasn't come up with any concrete suggestions yet, so here we are closely following the work group's work, I'd say worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97017	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97018	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, counsel, here we are building a society without violence and certainly we must condemn any form of violence. We also have opportunities to fight this violence means through education, prevention, but also repression. So, do you think that this form of repression is good or do you think that it should change, given that we have zero tolerance for violence and that any bully should be convicted of being a relapser in the end because if we want to, we want society without violence, then we should certainly punish those who commit offenses in order to set an example for those who eventually think about doing something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97019	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97020	I thank you for asking. This is an extremely current question. So what kind of penal policy, repression, is it, to the right, to the right extent, it is extremely mild and when it comes to criminal acts. However, we believe that the repression or decision of criminal misdemeanor decisions of the courts should be significantly stricter where a clear message should be given to both the public and the perpetrator to be dissuasive for the further taking of such illegal actions, but on the other hand, I would say that penal policy cannot play a role in preventing them because sometimes courts in giving a mild penalty de facto, under a number of easy circumstances, prevent the possible further taking of such or similar acts. What we've been pointing to in recent years is that despite the fact that we have national preventive mechanisms that some have not lived in the field right now in conversation with With the police and the centres, let's say the family centers themselves and their jurisdiction should be strengthened. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97021	Thank you very much. We're limited in time. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97022	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic congratulated on the occasion of International Women's Day, thanking women for making Croatian society more advanced, humane and better, and especially fostering family values. In my opinion, it is a perfiduous way of messageing women where they belong in society and where they belong in their family because if they do not care for family values according to the criteria of their husbands and others, then they do not make society more advanced, more humane and better than I think, more backward, inhumane and worse. For me, this is much worse than the sentence Vice Vukojevic said here at the "More Birth and Less Talk" assembly, and this is not about the lapus as it was in your marriage, which is why her colleague Murganic was exposed to criticism rather than actually about congratulations, but about the slap. Madam Attorney General, how does this fit the 1.2 objective of common or equal parenting and, of course, can you clearly be interested in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97023	Madam Attorney-General, I ask you only a moment because the advantage has been the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Murganic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97024	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, the MP really deliberately distorts the facts. The card is addressed in good faith, and I think that regardless of gender and age, with everything else that this card contains, it is also very important to cultivate family values, and that, knowing the gentleman and colleague of Arsen Bauk, it is safe to agree and it is he who is surely in favour of fostering family values. And as for the card that will be referred to the fathers for sure of similar content. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97025	Thank you very much. You're aware it was a replica, so I have to give you a warning. Here you go, Madam Attorney General. My colleague Bauk and you have a breach of your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97026	I'm looking for equal treatment as my colleague Murganic. Art. 238, my colleague Murganić did not take this as a well-intentioned card but as an attempt to approach the conservative part of the electoral body because he thought because of criticism that it was far away so that it would come a little closer to them, but this is much worse than what you said and I can only conclude after all I can tell you after that it is in your marriage and the criticisms you got Hope all forgiven you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97027	Well, you're aware that it was a replica for you, so you're getting a warning too. Here you go, Madam Attorney, now for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97028	The Ombudsman's institution reacts in cases of obvious sexism, when it comes to discriminatory practice, when it comes to, for example, calling for hate. In such a congratulatory, I really do mean that a certain public person cannot enter family values because it simply does not go into the scope of our observation. So we can say that something is appropriate or inappropriate, but we cannot get into the evaluation as an institution, we can leave it to the public, to politicians, to civil society organisations, to the activists to say whether something is appropriate or not. We often bear witness to certain abusive words that we can't influence either, because it's simply not about discriminatory grounds. We can have different views about it, but I'm saying I don't want to get out of my power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97029	Comrade Bauk, you have a breach of your rules of procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97030	Okay, there'll be another one. Thank you. Art. Some, say, 238, esteemed attorneys, given the long-standing cooperation in joint work, I think you've contributed a lot to what you're doing, but because of the specific legal framework in which you act, I only call on you to apply the same criteria as for the President of the Republic to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97031	Of course, it was a replica, so you get a second warning. So if we go on with the violations of the Rules of Procedure that aren't, then I'm going to use that mechanism again, which is that I won't even let you finish it as soon as I see that you're actually saying the replica you'll get the first warning, the second warning and the third warning, etc., I don't think it makes any sense, honestly I don't think it makes any sense and it doesn't contribute to the quality of the debate, and neither does it improve the quality of what I think we all stand for here, but okay, okay. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97032	Thank you very much, Vice President. I fully agree with you, however, but counterpart Bauk has injured the Rules of Procedure and has questioned the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where one of the fundamentals of the family is. If today in HS we hear that an insult to women is a congratulatory Prime Minister in which he wants them to keep family values, it is more than scandalous, as is scandalous that the MP prevents you from sending political messages to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97033	All right, fellow Chicken, and that was a replica, not a breach of the rules of procedure, so you get a warning, too. Now let's cut it out. Now the esteemed attorney will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97034	I must respond to what the MP said we have the same criteria for the prime minister and the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97035	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can't answer that anymore. On the replica you can, now you will have a replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97036	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor's Attorney General. I'd say I'd calm the ball down with a sports dictionary. Namely, you said and you have no open office outside of the City of Zagreb, so you are forced to rely on the work of county committees for gender equality that work voluntarily. You said that there are county committees with which you have good cooperation, with which projects are realised, so here I think it would be good to at least point out today, to say what the county committees are, which are associations to set an example for all those others. Here I come from Sibenik-Knin County, so you pointed out that commission as not a very bright example, so here I am asking you to specify which county committees are implementing quality projects on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97037	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97038	Well, here's the first thing I have to say is that today we're pretty focused on the county committee on gender equality that I'm trying to establish cooperation with. However, something in the beginning must be clear that it may not have been clear enough from my opening speech, which is that the work of the county committees is coordinated by the government's office for gender equality, which is required once a year to call meetings and meetings with all the County Committees on Gender Equality under the Law on Gender Equality. That government's gender equality office hasn't done as much as I've known for the last five or six years. So, what the commission does depends on me doing this job for 10 years depends on the election to the election and on the activity or political will in the field. If we talk about the County Commission of Sibenik-Knin County, we have on several occasions asked them to start, form, etc. And to include us, here I was with them but I can't say that they have some kind of continuity, that we have continued cooperation with them or that they're, like, proactive on the ground. Koprivnica-križevci County, Primorje-Gorski County County, Međimurje County [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's hard for me right now to name it that way. [[Intruder: Thank you very much we have a time limit, therefore...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97039	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97040	Thank you. First of all, I would use my replica to respond to my colleague, Marin Chicken, from HDZ, which is for family values. Who has asked you a question, if you can calm down the chairman, because there is no record of what is said. [[That, that, you can't do that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97041	Yeah, no, no, I'm telling you you can't answer to a fellow chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97042	I'm asking the attorney general a question, and by the way, I'm asking the question, please give me my time back. So he asked you if your father could get several days of maternity birth or after the birth of a child it is now in the law of 7 days in the Labour Act, and your HDZ in the new draft of the Law in the paper completely abolishes the right of the worker to be with a newborn child for 7 days. So much for that, so please contact that address. And you've also mentioned this new Labour Act, and I'm curious whether you're being directed, whether you're involved in this task force, given that two years of writing a new Labour Act in secret. I've seen this draft, and what I'm really worried about is just this flexibility of working time and so on. work from home where social services will be judged by all accounts Throw on the woman. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97043	I'm, I'm, slowly just, I'm asking you not to refer to anything that was before, which someone used to say, etc., and you don't answer, you didn't get a warning. So this one, colleague Chicken, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97044	Excuse me, Vice President, colleague Peovic is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97045	No, no, what you want, I'm sorry, you can't stand up and say something that comes to mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97046	So I can't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97047	No, you can't, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97048	... because we do not know who MP Pilic is, Vice President, colleague Peovic points his replica to MP Pilic, in the ranks of HDZ there is no such, here I read the list of members of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97049	All right, you're getting a good warning, please take a seat. Here's your esteemed attorney. My colleague Jelkovac has the same injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97050	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, Peovic, has injured an article of the Rules of Procedure, as you yourself have said first and foremost because she responded to something that the MP said could not, cannot and in such a way conflict with the MP, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. And the other thing is he's not Chicken, he's Chicken. And the third thing my colleague said about family is, above all, in the interest of every woman to protect her family and thus we also protect our wife and her equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97051	Well, that's why I warned the respected representative, Peovic, this was a replica. I have to give you a warning, too. I'm asking you nicely, let's not have this debate that was on one level now descending to the level of mutual bickering. I'm asking you nicely, this one. Dear MP Peovic, you want the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97052	If I wanted to, first of all, to warn myself of the regular session taking place on your part because you warned me not to stick to the subject even though I referred to what the attorney asked as a matter of counsel and therefore referred to what the lawyer was saying. And in this assistance, I can say that one thing is good, which is that this representative Chicken, who we haven't heard so often, will be remembered as a father who would love to be with his child, but unfortunately, HDZ won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97053	Okay, first of all, your time is up, your time is up, and the second you haven't called for an article, so you get a second warning. Here's your esteemed attorney's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97054	Regarding the use of fathers in, their share in maternity and parental leave I must say yes. This is how we need to distinguish when fathers use maternity leave and parental leave under the Law of Labour and maternity leave, and when fathers can use those 7 days according to the Law of Labour for the birth of a child. So what we want is to introduce a directive of at least 10 days. However, already some employers in Croatia have introduced a month of particularly paid father's leave. We are not involved in a working group for the construction of the Labour Act, however, this topic when it comes to father's leave and exits from that law is mostly referred to this Law on maternity and parental leave and father's leave where a special second resolution body is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97055	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97056	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Ombudsmans, according to the State Statistics Institute, women aged 65 years in Croatia are the most endangered group at risk of poverty and social exclusion. In 2020, the average pension to which this report relates was €2,583, the real risk of poverty was €2,710, which would say that the average pension is below the risk threshold, but when seen more precisely given the difference in pensions between men and women, it actually means that men have more than the threshold of risk of poverty, and women have unfortunately pensions lower than the threshold of risk of poverty. I'm interested in what you consider to be the main causes, most certainly part of it lies in the premise and premise that women do, and also what steps are necessary to take, ultimately and in the change of the legislative framework, in order to bring such practice to a woman at the end of the whole life they've been doing to starve in order to break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97057	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97058	Thank you for that question. Therefore, the risk of poverty to which women are exposed more than men who have lower salaries than men is reflected in the situation which is on the labour market, excessive labour, often work for a certain time, early leaving the labour market, missing working relationship, most of it being used to coordinate family and business, part-time, part-time, so they often slip from the labour market not more than 50, 45+, but 40. They come out of the labour market and let's not forget one thing that women who gave birth to two, three, and most often between three and six children were hit drastically with the height of their pensions, de facto because of their birthright, were punished. We did what we could to make our agility that for every child born six months of retirement, and mothers who had such a case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97059	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honored attorney, it was kind of hard to sound when you said, and that's what your report says, that women are retired on the labour market because of motherhood, that this is later reflected on both their salaries and their pensions. I would ask you to explain why such penalization is taking place, whether the reason is an inadequate law or an inappropriate attitude of employers towards women on the labour market. You also mentioned the cases you are facing, and this is the extension of the work contract from year to year, so that contract reached 20 years. Extensions, it certainly cannot be normal or acceptable. In this sense, what have you done, how have you responded to the institutions, and what answers have you received?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97061	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97062	One such institution that had multiple extensions up to 10-15 years. working contracts for a certain time for women who were born was HRT and we intervened 6-7 years ago. And we didn't achieve anything through the labour inspection. These women later conducted court proceedings. Therefore, we treat complaints, what we get because to act and enter into the investigation procedure requires the consent of the applicant or potential victim. When we're talking about the so-called. penalization, a mother on the labour market based on motherhood, the basis of pregnancy, the basis of family status, is unfortunately an employer who uses all the opportunities to experience a woman who has such, such a absence from her job as I would say a financial burden because of the introduction of another person who will work on these jobs, because of the necessary reorganization of jobs and who simply use their legal opportunities to use a conditional business, business conditioned cancellation or expiry of work at a certain time where the person has to prove that she has been fired precisely because she is a mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97063	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97064	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honorary Attorney, here's what we see from your report, and we're facing every day that violence against women is still and if we can put it that way, a growing problem. And safe houses and punishing violent men are obviously solving the consequences. Violence, even this data we have, is not to say credible, there's much more violence, the hidden violence that isn't recorded. What can we do more as a society? But in order to say so in raising girls that they simply through their formal part of life realize that violence does not have to be endured, that it is simply the first attempt of violence that should be opposed to it and that we are aware that many times women have suffered violence for many years until there are some catastrophic, catastrophic consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97065	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97066	So in order to know why women have been suffering violence for years, we must also know the causes that lead to this, often it is an economic dependence on the obliterator, often it is a fear that they will lose their children and fear of institutionalising the whole process before the court, evidence, testimony, trauma and later or separation from the housing unit to shelter and counselling. Punishing a bully isn't the only time we need to work with the perpetrators. According to our law, we have certain measures that express themselves to the perpetrators in order to reduce relapse, some object that it is only 30% success and 30% is a certain success, better than absolutely not working or having high percentages of relapses. Raising the education system is something necessary through primary, secondary, higher education, it is something we insist on and expect a lot from civic education and education on all topics that are important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97067	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97068	Thank you. I apologize in advance if someone had already asked this question, we saw on the board this morning, so I didn't, I haven't been able to watch the beginning, but here we have, during last year we had a session of several parliamentary committees on the subject of sexual harassment at the university, at HRT, remember those scandals where we discovered that sexual abuse and harassment are being covered up at the highest levels of both universities and HRT. So here's no reaction from their side until today we haven't noticed except here during the scandal if you remember that sentence that there and the rectors were harassed but thank God not sexually. So, here's if you have any information, is there any progress and movement in protecting women from sexual harassment at both the university and HRT? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97069	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97070	There are two topics. HRT was a very complex problem, the previous leadership went with new leadership we are working on a rule that is in the final phase and we have agreed on the education of their persons working to protect the dignity of employees, i.e. employees. As far as the university is concerned, this 21-year-old will have significant indicators in complaints where both students and students, university employees, reported that they had been sexually harassed. We've held several on-line educations, in colleges, somewhere and an fas talks with them. It was a wide range of students and students with whom we talked and educated them about it and of course it was something that was good that came to the surface because we saw that many universities in their sublegal acts have mainly to prevent the harassment and abuse of employees of each other, not students and students. by the professor's staff. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97071	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to mention a significant project in the context of this topic, the project is called “Wish for” implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family, Social Policy. It is mostly funded by the European Social Fund. The content of the project consists of most of the employment of women who are more difficult to employ. So women who had been a certain number of years at the Employment Office and proved very quality especially in the passive parts of the Republic of Croatia. However, this project is limited to 24 months, so I wonder if you may have any idea that it is not in your jurisdiction, but perhaps you have information whether there is a possibility that even after the deadline this project continues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97073	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97074	I must say, the answer to that question has executive authority. I what I learned in the field with Sisak-Moslavina County where the necessary need for women to get involved in that programme has ceased. We appealed to the Resorship Ministry to see what we could do with that county that was devastated by both earthquakes and covid. Otherwise, I would say that it has a double opportunisation of importance. On the one hand, women who have been in the institution for a long time, who are hard to employ, have such professions where we have included them have received compensation, are socially involved, have a sense of usefulness of social commitment and work. On the other hand, if they are involved longer in this project, those de facto cannot ask in their profession at the Employment Service, so maybe there is a possibility that when it happens this way that there are no financial resources for further work, that they remain more severed on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97075	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97076	I would like first to commend myself on the report and to say that it belongs to that small group of better-quality reports coming to us in the House. Secondly, here's the report we're discussing 11 and a half months after you delivered it to the government. You delivered it on March 31st last year and you're probably aware that in the meantime the National Recovery and Resistance Plan was adopted. In your report you warned of problems, you warned that there was no I would refer a little to shelters and services in shelters. You wrote that we even have a county where we don't have shelters. You said that one part of the money was withdrawn from the EU funds, but nowhere in the National Recovery and Resistance plan is there a single kuna allocated to it, even though gender equality and equal opportunities are mentioned in all five components and one initiative. Why aren't allocated funds and we see that we need them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97077	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97078	I'm having a hard time talking about the National Recovery Plan right now, which, if I'm not mistaken by 2030, is made up. Is it until 2030? So we intervened on it and looked for certain situations, certain parameters related to gender equality. We believe that the implementation of this national plan when it is worked in a year or two years, will have to include a clear financial structure on the allocation of funds, as well as for shelters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97079	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97080	It's definitely coming from the detachment of parts of the vault that have contracts with shelters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97081	Thank you very much, esteemed Attorney General. No more replicas. Please sit in your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality Marija Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97082	At the 11th session held on 23 June 2021, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020, which was delivered by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality Act to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 31 March 2021. The Committee discussed that proposal in accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that report. Introductoryly, the Advocate General for Gender Equality presented reports. The reporting year was marked by challenges related to the implementation of work activities under the circumstances of the covid-19 disease pandemic and two earthquakes. During 2020, the Ombudsman’s Office worked on a total of 1993 cases from which 1938 was opened in 2020 and 55 cases were transferred from earlier years. Overall, gender-classified persons in the new 515 cases of protection for citizens against discrimination in 2020 were considered by the Ombudsman in the cases most of them related to women, i.e. 76.3%. As in earlier years, lawyers joined persons from the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, but mostly from the city of Zagreb 43.9%. The Ombudsman sent state bodies, local self-government units, other bodies with public authority, media, and other legal and physical persons a total of 160 warnings, 166 recommendations, 19 proposals. It has reported to the competent national attorneys that the criminal offence has been committed in three cases, considering an initiative to amend the legal rules in three cases, while the process in one hundred cases is still ongoing from 2020. The Ombudsman conducted three independent studies, carried out seven analyses to monitor the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and other rules concerning gender equality in different areas of life and work, published three publications within the framework of the European project and prepared a draft of a publication. The Ombudsman was the holder of a partnership organisation in six projects financed by EU funds or other international sources of funding. In a debate followed by the majority of committee members and representatives present, she praised the report as well as the lawyer's work. The report is assessed as high quality, prepared and comprehensive, and the work of the Ombudsman is consistent and recognizable at local and national level. It is particularly commendable that more than 90% of the Ombudsman's recommendations are respected as they speak about the authority that the Ombudsman's institution enjoys. Good co-operation with local gender equality committees has been highlighted. A commendation has been expressed for the proactive activities of the Advocate's Office to attract funds from the EU funds. The debate also talked about the pay gap of women and men who totaled 13% in the Republic of Croatia, and in some activities even 25%, and in a small percentage of women in high positions in the administrative and supervisory bodies of businesses from 16% to 18%. Furthermore, the need for additional training of employees in social care centres is indicated. The importance of education and informing lecturers between the civil education and education concerned is highlighted. With regard to the trend of reducing the offence, and an increase in the crimes of domestic violence, it is assumed that the result of a stricter qualification of part of domestic violence has been stated. In the field of harmonising family and business life, the need for organising family services and services has been demonstrated since most of the obligations towards children as well as the elderly and the sick are done by women. It is regrettable that for five years the Republic of Croatia has not had a roof National Plan for Gender Equality which makes it difficult to work and all local committees for gender equality. Committee Chairman Marija Selak-Raspudić in accordance with Article 54. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expressed a separate opinion on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. In her opinion, the Ombudsman appears in her report as a lawyer for women's equality, not a lawyer for gender equality. In fact, the president agrees that in the field of gender equality, a woman's issue is very important, and that women in many areas are under-represented, discriminated and in a worse position than men. However, according to the report, it is not said that there are areas where men are in a more unfavourable position. In the field of education, pupils have better grades than students and more enroll and finish higher education. There are more men than women among human trafficking victims. The majority of addicts are among men, and men are more at risk of the covid-19 disease pandemic which is incompatible with what gender equality should be. The president pointed out that understanding of a woman as a victim and avoiding recognition that these are and men is a hidden face of patriarchs that reproduces a stereotype that women are always victims and men are always violent. The D.A. left the session before the vote. The board members decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Assembly, with the majority of votes 10 for and 1 against. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97083	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and will be the first to share, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Klasic and respected representative Martincevic. First honorary representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97084	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the esteemed assistant attorney with associates, respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although for a longer time formal at the top of political priorities gender equality was one of the areas that only in a relatively short time before the pandemic caused by the corona virus began to achieve effective, measurable and visible results. The outbreak of the pandemic has put the results at risk due to the rapid and drastic increase in the difference between men and women in the field of unpaid nursing work, the deterioration of long-term impact on both paid work and women's incomes. Violence against women also, with a significant increase in gender inequality in terms of poverty, general well-being, especially mental health deterioration. We can safely say that these global crises in the pandemic were largely borne by women. We can still not be satisfied with the legal regulation in favour of women who regulate women's rights through family laws, laws against domestic violence, laws governing divorce, custody of children, adoption of children and other forms of protection through legal forms. An example of ineffectiveness over the protection of women is her only supervisory body, so-called The Commission for the Monitoring and Promotion of the Working of the Body of Criminal, Violent Procedure and the Implementation of Sanctions on Protection against Family Violence, which has failed to meet effectively on the website of the Ministry of Justice and Administration since the occurrence of the pandemic caused by the covid-19, and therefore we have only their latest report from 2019. In 2020 19 more women were killed for domestic violence, and the numbers of violence are certainly higher because many women do not dare to report the perpetrators and statistics are counted only when the worst possible outcome occurs. The state has no effective leverage to detect violence in families most often committed against the most vulnerable sex and children. We often witness that the state reacts only to newspaper signs or actions by citizens. The police system responds well in the case of domestic violence but they are among the steps due to the facts mentioned above, the fear of women reporting and the like. In the end, the case ends up in a court where the perpetrator is punished with a fine that is often too mild and ineffective. When the perpetrator faces a fine, the entire family suffers from the consequences of the lack of wealth, even a counterproduct, which is why women are often accused of doing so. The backbone of everything would be the timely detection and prevention of domestic violence through a system of social care that is now undercapacitated, and often there is not enough power to detect and react in time to prove numerous cases of neglect. According to the UN report, there is progress in the adoption of law on women's rights, but there is very little implementation of them, resulting in low law enforcement performance both in Europe and in Europe. The problem with working women is that despite women having eight hours of working hours with less pay than the opposite sex, women still have greater obligations due to child care and household care. The state should react and give state incentives that would allow women to work four hours of working hours with relatively decent income to ensure their independence and equality. The report on the work of the Ombudsman on gender equality for 2020, i.e. EUROSTAT data, shows that in the previous decade, the gender pay gap doubled, while the birth gap reached almost 30% in pensions. Nevertheless, gender pay gaps in the EU remain around 14%. This pay gap has a long-term impact on the quality of women's lives, increases the risk of their exposure and poverty and reflects the existing pension gap of 33% in the EU. The lack of transparency of wages has been identified as one of the main problems for both us and the EU. While gender equality is a political measure to increase economic growth and it is more important than ever to implement inclusive political solutions in society during and after the pandemic, HSLS proposes to include compliance with the requirements of the future directive on strengthening the application of the principle of equal salaries of men and women for equal work through transparency of wages. Gender equality is not just a fundamental human right. The social advantages and potentials of increasing gender equality relate to improving the economy in terms of increasing GDP, employment, competitiveness and productivity, as well as demographic images. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97085	It will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformist, respected representative Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97086	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorneys, state secretary, associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few days after we celebrated International Women's Day in Parliament, we have a debate on the prosecutor's report on gender equality. I have to take advantage of the opening opportunity to really commend the comprehensive and quality report. Unfortunately, the content of the report itself is not so good. So, unfortunately, and so on for more than 100 years since women began seeking equal rights and women's equality, we here today have to discuss the unequal position of women. Even today, after so many years in public, there is not even a sufficiently developed awareness that women are far less paid than men, which is just one of the problems. And we need to conclude that there is not enough initiative in society today, above all, to solve this problem. In particular, traditionalism that imposes the clearly divided roles of men and women, whereby women are only expected to worry about harmonising business and family life, while men can devote themselves uninterruptedly and easily to their careers as a standard. Here's the thing, so in the interview I gave for Women's Day, it's what politicians call us most often, when I think women and men will be equal, so I answered that we'll be on the right track when journalists stop asking questions about the harmony of family and business life exclusively for women. So 15 years of working in a high-ranking economy, now 10 years, more than 10 years in politics and countless times I have answered the question of how I coordinate my professional and family life. I don't remember any male colleague, director of the firm or any politician answering that question. So, this is exactly how the patriarchal setting of things applies, of course, to the labour market, leads to large pay gaps, and consequently to pensions, unequal evaluation of the work of men and women, the uncertainty of maintaining the job itself because of possible pregnancy and motherhood. And in our society, it still prevails, therefore, that women who are single or have no children have more time to devote themselves to work, do not have to get out of work, and that motherhood, family obligations and careers can hardly go in parallel and equally high quality. This specifically refers to the position of women in the private sector, since the available data clearly show how full birth permits are used mainly in public-owned enterprises, i.e. in the public sector in general, while in private companies even half of women use reduced maternity leave. Also, although the number of women in leading positions in companies has increased somewhat, these data remains catastrophic, so they're all below 20%. Women are under-represented in economically leading positions, with which they are of course paid less and there is this big difference. And when we talk about that expression glass ceiling it exists everywhere, it exists in the public sector, it exists in public services, but most visible and strongest it feels right in the economy. And here I will make it perfectly clear that, of course, inequality, equal opportunities and chances of progress exist in the public sector, but they are far, far more pronounced in the private sector, and unfortunately, at least that is the case. As far as political participation is concerned, the numbers are still defeated, we are now the best result that 23% of us in this House speak for ourselves more than enough, and we know that at lower levels units of local and regional self-government, cities, municipalities, congregations and councils, so there is a worse situation, far below 20%. Unfortunately, in our society in our country, we know that all key decisions are made, and policy-related decisions are made in political bodies where women are not represented, where they are not participated. And that's one of the big challenges. It is obvious that the system that we have set, it is obvious that the penalties we have prescribed are not nearly enough, that we must therefore change that legislative framework, but I think that we and especially as women, as politicians in general, but especially women should also work further to really encourage and encourage women to choose politics, to enter politics and to be in the places where they decide. So, of all institutions far greater engagement in making concrete decisions, let's start with that Labour Act that we look forward to, and we are then paying particular attention to everything that happens in terms of gender equality in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97087	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDSS, and a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97088	Thank you, Your Honor. The pandemics and the two earthquakes were not deprived of their negative influences in 2020, as we also hear the work of the Advocates' Office for Gender Equality. You stayed as you would say at the height of the mission. In these circumstances, you have warned that the pandemic must by no means be an excuse to ignore or marginalise social problems related to gender equality, and primarily to gender-founded violence, as just a period of crisis could be a fertile ground for their deepening or expansion. The first fact that I fell for my eye is that unlike some others, you do not have offices outside of Zagreb, so the territory of the largest number of complaints comes from the city of Zagreb. So 44%. I really don't see any reason why we shouldn't think about opening up the district offices of the attorney general for gender equality at some regional centres. Just as it has, for example, the office of the attorney general or the attorney general for children who proved to be a great step away because we can only imagine how many cases of discrimination and inequality women go through as it is said under the radar of the office because of the lack of reporting. A few words about a woman's representation in politics. It is interesting that in the last round of parliamentary elections there has been a significant 10 per cent increase from 13 per cent to 23 elected MPs and 31 per cent on the last day of 2020 when mandates are taken into account. These data are good, however, they can be interpreted on the other hand, as the share of MPs in the Croatian Parliament only increased after the mandate of certain MPs was put on hold. That means that Jell-O, women are generally still substitutes for MPs. When we know that on the lists the relationship between women and men was 42 versus 58 it is clear that women are placed in more unfavourable lower positions on the election lists. It sounds devastating that as much as 20% of the proposed lists were not followed, so-called. The women's quotas, which are certainly an ugly name, and 18% of the women's list were carriers. In this context, last year's local elections are not necessarily mentioned. According to gender-determined data published on the DIP pages relating to submitted candidates and the results of local elections, a slight 9.7% increase in the mayoral or mayoral deputy or mayoral or chieftain's office as well as a slight increase of 9.5% in the mayor's post is seen. Since after the local elections held in May this year in the Republic of Croatia, we only have 2 mayors. From the perspective of women members of national minorities, I believe that members of the Serb community especially those in rural areas face a more pronounced problem of access to the labour market. I spoke several times about this pay phone about the project Zažela, a programme that aimed at hiring more employable categories or hiring women in an unfavourable position on the labour market on the one hand and caring for the elderly and the powerless on the other. Of course all this is happening in rural areas, hard-to-reach rural areas. Most of them are related to urban environments or bad or in areas where the unemployment rate and the long-term unemployment rate are higher than the Croatian average. And today I reiterate my concern about not implementing the programme, both for users who need it and for women who are unemployed. So, I think it's high time that something was done to make this program "Wish" again to experience its affirmation as it had, if possible in another better light, exactly where you were talking, said distinguished attorneys perhaps when it comes to education. I also believe that when we talk about women in rural areas it is important to say that it is a very sensitive social group exposed to the risks of multiple discrimination and I think it is necessary to establish an incentive, institutional, legal and political framework in order to ensure that rural development, and above all agriculture, livestock and forestry are gender-sensitive and that they have what is most important, and that this is the budget and that women are allowed to be stakeholders and, therefore, in that distribution, among decision-makers. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of UN Women has been clearly shown on this subject, and we also have a general recommendation. 34 of 2016 on women's rights in rural areas. For a moment, I'm going back to a pandemic that's stripped some data and unfortunately made many of my life a living hell. During the pandemic there was a significant increase in domestic violence, women remain in the vast majority of victims of domestic violence. In the last 2 years. We have an increase in femicides of over 50% of women killed with two key parameters, in the number of women killed and in the number of women killed by intimate partners. With the domestic violence of the victims of partner violence, they still do not have adequate legal protection. Although today we are talking about the 2020 report, it is not to the contrary to mention that the attorney's office has just made a significant contribution to the amendments to the Penal Code and the Law on Protection against Family Violence on the subject of the provisions of the law apply both to current and former partners in intimate relations. In the Penal Code, changes are important to make regarding sexual harassment, domestic violence, and gender conditions of violence. According to these changes, gender-related violence and domestic violence will be prosecuted by official duty, and the criminal act of vengeful pornography is also one of the contributions of the lawyer for gender equality and the entire team. In order to prevent a much more dangerous pandemic called the pandemic of violence, it is necessary to listen well to and act on the messages and recommendations of the Ombudsman and similar institutions. The National Plan for Gender Equality for the period of '21 will certainly be crucial. Until '27. As Club SDSS, we will always support any increase in funds that would be sent to your office and we definitely propose an increase in the number of employees in terms of opening regional offices. With that in mind, we'll support your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97089	The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97090	Since I was the only one against this report and gave my opinion, I should give a more detailed explanation as to what my objections to this report are. I would also like to point out that accepting the report is not a procedural matter of formal character, while the content debate is obviously considered unusual and more detailed debate by some and unnecessary. We are very well paid for our work and we owe citizens a thorough and critical reading from all reports and legal proposals for which we are responsible. So that's how I approached this report. In that sense, several elements that I find unsatisfactory in the report. In the financial section of the Ombudsman’s report, only on one page summarises a very shocking and principled information on 5 financed activities from which nothing concrete can be learned about how budgets are spent. In that sense, I believe that the public deserves a more detailed report because the attorney's office spends about 5 million kuna a year on its work. As we could learn from some of her public statements, the Ombudsman is almost so revolutionized that she is expected to transparent the financial report because she gets only about 3 million kuna from the state, while the other 2 million kunas she has provided to Croatia. Croatia is part of the EU and the money that is being drawn from it has been donated by Croatian citizens by paying their annual membership fee. Therefore, the Ombudsman and all others owe very much the financial report on the way they spend that money, at least the same which they certainly require eu project which they have allocated. By the way, since taxpayers paid for the work of the attorney's office, they paid for the application of the project because it was not done voluntarily in someone's spare time. The question, the second question I will specifically address, is whether we are really in this report on gender equality, which was also my fundamental content objection. The perception of fighting for gender equality, which is mostly reduced to fighting for women's rights in a part where it is negative, can be reduced to two key objections. The first is that it is only a floscule that is part of the EU's trending policies, which can result in a well-earned, which can be reduced to the mere purposeful production of content without a significant impact on society as a whole. The second that stems from the first is the struggle for women's rights to weapons of power that serve to acquire their own capital, to expand social influence and to eliminate political non-insects in the name of women's rights disqualification, different labels such as chauvinists, sexists, and similar to all those who are not just declared progressives. The consequence of such abuse of women's rights and the struggle for gender equality is the deepening of gender gaps, the further closure of sex in the own world, which makes it impossible for the wider social dialogue that is needed and to achieve gender equality and to improve women's rights, but also what is a substance objective, which is to achieve justice as the most social values for which I am strong in favour. Simplifyingly, the result of an even stronger war of sex for which it would not be unusual for it to end up in the repatriation of society. If the world before women's rights was a world that dealt exclusively with the male position of society and its promotion, then this present world in which we promote the fight for women's rights must not repeat its mistakes. It must be a world that is an alternative to a one-dimensional view of the problem, a world that is sensitive to women's problems, but also to men's problems, a world where gender equality is indeed going. In that sense, this report, even according to what its nominal goals are, is the achievement of equal rights between women and men, does not meet its purpose. This report deals only with the position of women, even in those cases where men are in a more unfavourable position according to available statistics. Before I support this with concrete quotes, I would like to stress that I am not here as an apologist of male rights, I am not at all interested in such a simplified view of reality but above all in favour of an authentic fight for human rights, and it will also serve to improve women's rights and achieve gender equality of our at least declared common social goal. I focus on this problem first and foremost on what is not recognized and therefore does not only affect the position of men but also on the position of women. What are the parts of the report I consider controversial? When we talk about victims of human trafficking, especially women and children by sex of 15 victims 8 were male, 7 female, however, the report deals only with women as victims. In the head of the addict's wife, we find the ratio of men and women to five men to one woman. No one says a woman should not be dealt with as an addict, but if there are so many male addicts, why is this report and the problems that lead to addiction not at all concerned? When we talk about alcohol addiction, the proportion of women is 18.1%, men are still in a much larger majority, the report still skips the question again, why are men so dependent on alcohol and how does this problem solve? When we talk about gender equality and international protection seekers, according to data provided by the MUP, 61.74% of people are male, so most of them. Nevertheless, the recommendations in the report refer only to men, so I ask you all the more openly here, are there any more social prejudices towards male migrants or female migrants, given that a woman is perceived as a victim, including a victim of war, and a man only through the prism of his perpetrator? Furthermore, this report offers even 83 descriptions of specific cases, which is certainly the most interesting part of the report, but out of the total number of cases handled by the Advocate's Office, one quarter refers to men. Out of the total number of examples of these 83, if I counted well about five examples shown in the report, only five examples refer to men. So the number of examples shown is disproportionate with the number of complaints received on the table that one might interpret as discrimination against men. In the end, I want to say why this treatment of men concerns women as well. Except that we're part of the same society and everything that happens with one sex in the nature of things has consequences for another sex. The talk about women excluded as victims of aphirmia their sexually stereotyped role and reproduced the patriarchal pattern of behaviour in which it was generally accepted as a step to normal that a woman could only be a victim and nothing else, and that men were born violent, and this is dreary, hidden and therefore a permanent patriarchate that allows for its reproduction or the existence of all its negative characteristics. The last thing I want to point out here is the circumstances of putting a point on the agenda. The point was on the agenda of the Committee on Gender Equality on 23 June 2021, and is scheduled for the meeting two days later. After a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, which the Ombudsman left in the middle of the debate and before voting on its report, what I consider to be an anti-democracy act that demeans the work of the Committee as a body which has a legal task to analyse the work of the Ombudsman's point has disappeared from the HS agenda. Who intervened and why the Croatian public should know. I find it inadmissible, intransparent and undemocratic that this is how the agenda is subsequently revised. Once the item was removed from the agenda, it was returned only now that HDZ found out that I had personally collected more than 30 necessary signatures of the opposition for the item to finally come to the agenda. As long as I'm president of the Committee on Gender Equality, I won't let the subject of gender equality get in the way. As a result of all of the above, the fact that the report contradicts the notions in contrast with sexual statistics or the fact that the areas in which men are in a more unfavourable position are present is not analysed, which is not in line with what gender equality should be what affects women in breach of the Law on Gender Equality, thus deepening the gender gap and disabling and fighting for women's rights The Club of Representatives of the Mosta will not support that report. The fight for gender equality is not and must not be or become a war of sex, it is primarily a fight for gender convergence, a joint declaration of war against violence and all other anomalies that hinder the achievement of a fairer society as a whole. About women's inequality and their significantly difficult situation in society in a number of aspects, given all the problems, I will particularly look back at myself in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97091	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Katica Glamuzina, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97092	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Advocates with Associates, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministrys, I will say for the beginning of the Vice-President exclusively out of respect for you now did not raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure to which we were all offered, but we will say well what we have in the debates. This report is both commendable and worrying. Commendably, because of its comprehensiveness and clear enormous commitment to the work of Ombudsman Višnja Ljubicic, and worrying because it shows some unpleasant internationally measurable truths about how many problems in this area in Croatia are being treated as insufficiently relevant. I took part in the mentioned session of the Committee on Gender Equality which discussed this report. The report was the first point, and the national plan i.e. lack of a national gender equality plan second. You heard the chairman of the board, the report was accepted with only one vote against her own. The MPs asked questions on which they received comprehensive answers and showed great support for the lawyer’s work. Dysonic tones were not until the board president, by my personal impression, began to question the prosecutor for gender equality. And that took hours. There is no charge that the attorney general left the meeting in an orderly fashion due to the debate, with dignity all the aggressive questions and with each one being answered exhaustively. The sitting was interrupted by Mrs Helena Štimac Radin, who was supposed to talk about the second point that she could no longer stay at that session waiting for her point because the previous one was delayed beyond any measure. At that time, to speed up the process, we decided to interrupt the lawyer's questions and join the vote. At that point, the lawyer left after she had done absolutely everything she had done on that committee day. Let me also note that no one has ever united the opposition and the ruling coalition as it is on that committee, and today I seem to have made myself president of the Committee on Gender Equality. The lawyer enjoys absolutely everyone's support in her work, everyone praises her, and for what reason is this misunderstanding of the subject or something else gets constant unfair criticism from the president of the Committee on Gender Equality. The Social Democrats Club will support, of course, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020 because it clearly and unequivocally sees how closely the Ombudsman's attention and tenacity actively monitors the events in Croatia, but also the environment, which directly and indirectly concerns all issues which are the authority of its office. Its office monitors, analyses, warns, assists and gives recommendations and guidelines to other actors related to injuries of gender-equality postulates at all levels and in all forms. Her work is comprehensive and dedicated and we thank her for it. We welcome all activities that the Ombudsman for gender equality in Croatia encourages and implements to protect one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, which is equality. Unfortunately, every year by reading these reports and reports from all the defense offices, we see that we are still not an equal society but is still a lot of inequality and inequality where women are significantly less represented sex in spheres and policies and public spheres and business and social spheres of life. This detailed and comprehensive report that you presented today to MPs and MPs is not only a mirror of your work but also a guideline for all of us. It clearly shows which areas we are in and what are new moments, and what new moments have come to pass as a consequence of pandemic living conditions, and in these areas we also need additional engagement from both our representative and our representatives in the assembly to warn, insist on taking new measures and better implementation of the existing ones. I believe that, as women, we, too, have decided to act politically among other things and to change the consciousness of the entire society and try to lead to the full equality of women and men in life because it is our responsibility. The responsibility to generations of women whose actions we can thank for enjoying today some rights our grandmothers and great-grandmothers could not enjoy, but they fought for us. So we too have a responsibility to fight further so that some generations that come behind us still live in a society of complete equality. Although here in this assembly today, during the debate on this report, male colleagues are in the minority, which is difficult given the gender representation ratio in the assembly, I believe that they will all speak loudly with us on these topics and that in this way we will strengthen women in Croatia to speak loudly about these topics so that every year there will be fewer and fewer cases on which we are reading now. It is necessary to act in a way that these reports, in order for these reports to be smaller and smaller, and I think that even when I say that our ultimate goal is actually to live and act in a country where there is no longer a need for her work as much as utopian as it sounds. I will not continue to extract and quote parts of the report, it is available to all of us, but I want to take advantage of the opportunity and stress a few things that are relevant and may make some appeal to the ruling. I would like to stress the growing femicidal problem and I am taking the opportunity today to call upon an ugly, hurried, sorry, for the quick adoption of the attorney's recommendation on relevant education for all representatives of the law enforcement body on this specific type of criminal offence. We further appeal to the Labour Act, which is in preparation for the ministry to pay particular attention to some potential new categories of work from home, so as not to further worsen the position of women in the labour market. We appeal to the government and to all individual ministries to consult with the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality in these documents, if any, concrete and specific, and not just declarative. Finally, we urge the government to insist and request the president of the government's gender equality office to bring national gender equality policy without delay with which the office has been late for six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97093	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Selak Rapudic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97094	Art. 238, disdaining the parliamentary attorney. For all the things I've said that I've never heard a single counter argument in my session, I've only heard different qualifications. It's not a dignified assembly debate. Fortunately, there is a full session of committees where arguments and the course of events can be clearly seen, and I will not deal with qualifications, but I will continue to make clear the arguments and expect reasoned answers to them. This is HS, not crying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97095	Okay, that's, that I agree with this is HS and it has to be respected by the Rules of Procedure. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97096	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, esteemed attorneys, respected government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. The HDZ Club will support this report as it supported that committee. As far as the committee itself is concerned, it is not my place to be anyone's advocate now, but as the chairman of the truth committee said for the sake of the public working, the debate on that committee was really very painful and one of the reasons why the Ombudsman left this session after a series of elevated tones, however, she certainly knows, but the part in which she was to be present and completed. That it exists as the chairman of the board and the video on the Internet said, but also that it was already at the first next session the committee president herself apologized to us all for the way the session was held that day and how she participated in the debate. I will always oppose any forms of aggression, insults and any kind of disqualifications and thus continue to behave. As regards the Ombudsman, she as a body is independent, independently, following the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Regulations. Of course, in that sense, this report was made and presented. The methodology of making the report is well known to all of us who have long followed this area and it seems to us to be of much like, unfortunately, the trends of all these situations, the injuries and the facts that, in the report are just as much like the previous years, although there is a certain shift that the attorney general has highlighted in his report, and so will I, but this does not speak as much about the work of the attorney and her office as it does about us as the whole society. 2020 is also different because it is marked by the covid crisis, as well as by the earthquake in Zagreb and certainly that then the work of all institutions was difficult and the Ombudsman, which of course... It's no excuse, but it certainly disrupted the lives of our citizens in many ways. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is particularly pointed out is that increased violence in the family, violence in the majority, we must say in most of the women because, besides all of these trends that show a certain kind of inequality and discrimination is mostly related to women, in the larger procedure, 2/3 of this is definitely women, and that in all forms are discriminatory or unequal, which is also supported in this report. What I would like to emphasise in particular, and already mentioned is the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against violence against women and, in general, in the family, there must be one document that is welcome to us and contains a series of mechanisms. The government has made significant progress so far and in terms of expanding the number of shelters, good co-operation with all associations and non-governmental institutions, NGOs dealing with the protection of victims. It is also a significant shift and has been made in amending the law, more penalizing the punishments of the perpetrators, insisting on the psychosocial assistance of the perpetrators in terms of his socialization and resociation, but first and foremost in terms of prevention, as well as psychological assistance to victims. However, along with the national, constantly present telephone line, with an increased number of new shelters for women, we now have all the counties that have at least one shelter, some of which, of course, have more and with all these efforts trends in this regard, do not show that society has managed to make some significant shift, and this is probably a very large task in the future for all of us. But what we don't think feels enough, which is work on prevention, working on educational programmes, public education, raising public awareness of this problem, education can freely tell all of us, and also us here in HS, of course I don't exempt myself from it, and that's something that we all have to work on together. The D.A. pointed out another important project that is for women on the labour market, as much as we think we are equal, we certainly are not. Women are also very often sexually and sexually and according to their sexual or birth orientation right at the workplace. Jobs are not equally available to women and men, are not equally paid and can neither progress nor position themselves in those higher positions, leading positions, managerial positions, so here we can see in politics. And these are facts that you don't need to run from. I am not a great advocate of pure statistics and some figures, however, as long as we do not have some better mechanisms, I will indeed advocate for and quotas on the lists of political parties as well as on other mechanisms that positively discriminate against the woman and thus enable her more equal and significant participation of all spheres of society. What is very important for a woman is that the government has strengthened maternity and parental benefits through demographic measures, advocates father leave, advocates equal parenting, advocates different forms of assistance, and develops facilities, services, as well as other forms in which family and business life of all family members would be easier to reconcile. I mean parents, mothers and fathers, I think of both sex partners, and that's something that's certainly positive. Delimisation of parental fees is certainly one goal that we all want to achieve. On two occasions, the government significantly raised maternity and parental benefits, and I think it certainly made it easier for both women or mothers and fathers, since they can benefit from each other. I would like, perhaps, to point out in this area that I agree that we have a truly significant group of women, or several groups of women, who have multiple discrimination and should pay particular attention to them. With the visibility of the Ombudsman's office, with the need for education through educational processes and programmes, but generally through all possible communication channels available to us to send messages to citizens and educate them, to raise awareness of inequality, discrimination and violence. I'd like to put a special emphasis on the role of the media here. The media play a significant role, and neither should they quite amnesty from the role they play. I hope to the media, and I know very well that it is not a good grudge, but they have the same responsibility for how, how women victims of violence are shown, how and how women, women in politics are shown, and I think it's something that they can't boast about either. There was now a conference on how many women in the media space are present, there are some statistical shifts in more, but I am more interested in how and how they are described and shown in media shows and articles. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97097	Thank you, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97098	Article 238, you may have been mistaken by accident, but by doing so you humiliated me and led me astray by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I did not apologize for the debate and dialogue with the Advocate General. You're talking about a whole second session, a European Parliament resolution on women's sexual and reproductive rights. And I'll always be happy to apologize, but there's nothing to apologize for here. I call all of us here once again to a reasoned debate, and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to look at the video for themselves and bring an assessment. about the sequence of events. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Fortunately, we have evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97099	It was also a replica, so on the basis of Article 240(1), I must give you a warning. Honorable representative Anka Dark Taritash will now speak for the Center and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97100	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Advocates with Associates, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us with the report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2020. Each of us when he comes out for this pay phone and when he speaks both his views and his club attitudes and this report has the right to read in the way he thinks it is most acceptable and through showing his views he has the right and the ability to show some of the other elements in this report. Me and me at the club will support the attorney general's report. We absolutely appreciate what the D.A. is doing and we appreciate the way he's doing it and it's not the first report we have in this assembly, we've had opportunities and some other reports we have and compare and see progress that is. No one has a magic wand. He doesn't have a magic wand or a lawyer to change things. We see some progress through the report, but of course we're not happy with them. It's interesting to talk about the 2020 report, that's the year in which the crown happened to us and Covid happened to us, and when all of the things that were usually being detected in previous years were strengthened. But I can't really get out of this pay phone, and I don't want to take the situation to talk about it, that I'm talking about it in 2022, two weeks after Russia's aggression on Ukraine and where things are going to change not only in the world and in Europe, but they're going to change in Croatia where they're going to look for a great effort of complete society, there's going to be a big role as defender, indeed, at the beginning there's going to be an announcement that there's going to be about 5 million refugees from Ukraine, now they're saying that it's going to be up to 10 million refugees. Of course there will be both women and children and men, and there will be a very important way in which we will refer to it because, as the prosecutor said in response, women who have been raped during their departure from Ukraine are already coming. In the labour market it is indeed for all those who use everything, all bad things will be paid off and that is something we will have to take care of in the coming times. But let me go back to 2020 and a few things we need to talk about and point to. The basic difference we have when we talk about women and men is the pay gap. The same job makes a difference, so the difference is 13.3%, but there's an even bigger pension gap. So after doing their job fair and square, women and men difference and pension gap is 21.08%. And the key question that I ask all of you what to change, what to do, because while that gap is, what we're still talking about in all the other things. I've been watching, comparing wages, you know where you don't have such a big pay gap in which sector, believe it or not in the construction sector. In the construction sector, the smallest gap in these salaries is where women are equally paid for work as are men paid. And that's a fact and that's a fact, so this fact in construction is something that we always have an emotional need to emphasize, but the fact in this pay gap is a fact in both Croatia and the fact in Europe and I ask you what to change here, what to do, what to do in that field and how to make a change there? My experience and when they always ask me I say what you go higher and the more you climb on the ladder, the bigger you get and the higher you position the gap is bigger. At this point in this assembly, the relationship between women and men shows even a percentage may be different, but look at the women who have the original mandate, which women are actually substitute parliamentary deputies. Let's take a look at it and it's actually telling you about a series of situations. I can't even talk about the 2020 report so I don't point that out and I want to point that out. At the time when the original mandate, rather than the replacement mandate of the representative in HS, reflects another situation, then we will actually be able to talk about that and the situation in the assembly is as it should be. So look, we know exactly what the original mandate is, and what the replacement mandate is. And my dear colleagues and colleagues, as long as the pay gap is so high, and then he's over-retired, we still have a story about women who are married and men who are from Mars in real life. I'm going to use this remaining time for two topics that always stay kind of on the sidelines. One topic is women and sports and women in sports. See how many leading places in the sport there are women, so the president of the alliance and everything else. See what young girls, as quietly as possible, go through a story that is, therefore, related to their coaches and then about, about this relationship of young girls and coaches we hear really consequently and something that I want to emphasize is the reproductive health of women in the 2020s. and availability. So, it will remain under the radar, the availability of gynecologists, the availability of teams, the availability of certain parts of the country where we no longer have gynecologists and we do not have the possibility of women taking adequate care of their reproductive health and that is 2020. more significant reinforcements. We had this debate that was quite interesting, where a lot of us and in the name of clubs participated, and this was about reducing VAT to hygienic pads and tampons to cut to 25, we were looking at 5%, so next week, we're going to come back to that 5% and then we're talking about researching an association that talked about, about the right to protect...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97101	My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet for a moment so that a colleague can speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97102	I can speak, those who think it's interesting will listen, listen, and those who don't think won't listen whether they're quiet or not, but it all doesn't matter together. So, this association has shown how many women can't at all, I can't exercise my right to visit a gynecologist if the gynecologist doesn't have and how rarely they do. And this last one, there's one sentence, and that's what I'm going to read. The Advocate-General warns that there are continuing difficulties at national level in the availability of medical services for termination of pregnancy. O right to terminate, therefore, the possibility of breaking pregnancy is something that in this assembly cannot come to the agenda of the law, regardless of what we have and the obligation given by a constitutional court to resolve it because we have an old law, it does not come to the agenda and puts it under the carpet and those who put it under the carpet long enough to be under the carpet will be a large pile, it will pop on it and fall on its nose because, we do not want to discuss it, we do not want to talk about it and we do not want to talk about a few facts, and that is that I do not at all doubt that some doctors who have even specialized and are gynologists have a conscience, but there cannot be a single institution that is financed from the budget, and that all gynologists in it have an appeal of conscience. Anything financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia or from the budget of certain counties must be provided by doctors or teams and must be someone who does not have the right to appeal to the conscience and someone who performs a pregnancy interruption. Stopping pregnancy is not based on wishes, but indeed the option in which a woman has to decide is an option that I don't want to talk about at all about that emotional side and everything else. Fortunately, if it can be called fortunately from public space, we have run out of prayer groups that have intercepted women at hospitals and warned them not to interrupt pregnancy and have done another absolutely inadmissible pressure on them. And unlike all other EU countries that are taking a step forward in their legislation, and one of the last is Spain, which has made some steps forward, I have a feeling that we are taking a step back. And I never thought I'd have to do 2022. I'm still talking about it and saying that we have to regulate it by law, but this is an opportunity in which I would like to say in a single sentence the Ombudsman also warns, and from this speaker I warn everyone together that this is one topic that we need to adequately define in accordance with 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97103	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop arguing about this point for the vote. MEETING AT 12:04 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97104	We're moving on with the agenda. There is a debate on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representatives of Glasovac and Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We at the SDP club also wanted to give an equal share of the debate on behalf of the club a contribution to equality, and I was first because of the alphabet. I would like to make it clear that the SDP Club will vote to accept your report for 2020, and I believe and a good part of us related political parties and options greatly appreciate your work on your duties. I was also in the replica when I seemingly criticized you in fact remembered your contribution during that period when we worked together on some topics and all this further I'm going to say is not going to you, but going to the parliamentary majority. I find it totally inappropriate and unacceptable to adopt a legislative framework in the Law on Gender Equality, in particular Article 21(5), that the reason for the resolution of the Advocate for Gender Equality is that the Assembly does not accept the annual report. Because in fact, that fact reduces the authority of the institution itself, opens up with a legitimate issue of political calculations by the Ombudsman herself, so that these other special defenders, too, may not object to the rulings too much, and then, if there is an opportunity to object, at times justifiably, at times, to bring this into the space of political calculations. We therefore believe that it is necessary to remove from all the laws governing special defenders the possibility that the reason for the resolution should be the non-acceptation of the report, because it is, in fact, an institution called the Ombudsman that comes down to the working body of the Croatian Parliament, not an independent body, and it is, in fact, an inappropriate term of the Ombudsman at all. In an attack by cynicism, I could say that the ruling is expected to be government defenders or at least not to be attacked. Therefore, as I said, this is a criticism of the legislative framework and the HS, and the Ombudsman, of course, is all praise for the work that has been done so far in the part in which she should not knowingly or unconsciously calculate politically, so that yet, because of one subordinate position towards the parliamentary majority and the assembly, she would not cause too much. To conclude, in fact, we may need a lawyer for the equality of special counsels in relation to the attorney general, or at all ask the point in question when there are special lawyers when they have such a relatively narrow, narrow space for action. Of course some colleagues have asked me if I'm bringing in, reducing the attorney's authority. I told them the same thing, so there can be at all, the question of whether you can talk about authority when you actually come to the assembly every year for a vote of confidence and you have to be careful or not, is now a matter of character, will in your work be so resented by the ruling that someone just puts their thumb down and that you no longer be. She will continue her colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97106	Thank you, Arsen, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, As Arsen has already said, the SDP Club will support your report. We highly appreciate the efforts you make from year to year to protect among others. 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia, but not just that. You also worry that the laws adopted by HS live in practice, which is primarily the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. However, every year we have a very nice picture of Croatia in HS on gender equality for the year. So if we look at the picture of Croatia in terms of gender equality in 2020. Then we can freely say that poverty in Croatia still had a female face, that the overwork in Croatia had a female face, that contracts at a certain time in Croatia had a majority female face, that the extreme jobs in Croatia had a female face, that the victims of domestic violence in Croatia had a female face, that lower paid jobs in Croatia had a female face, that 99.9% of registered victims of sexual harassment at work and at the university also had a female face, that discrimination in general in Croatia still had a female face, that differences in pensions between men and women were such as 23%, that we can say that 21.8% of lower pensions in Croatia also have a female face, that lower salaries in Croatia still have a female face, that violence remains gender-founded and that the consequences of the pandemic and earthquakes that occurred in 2020. It has much more influence on women than on men. And that is the answer to the question of all those who today are in the assembly wondering why we are talking exclusively and most of our time investing in talking about women. Because Croatia still has a female face and women are slapped, less appreciated, less valued, less paid, very often abused and killed only because women are women. And that's not the picture of Croatia we want to look at, but that's the way it is. What saddens me, and we are HS and it is up to us to carefully promote your report and discuss it and create such legislative frameworks that will remove all those obstacles that stand in the way of full equality between women and men in society and the government to do the same. And I can't kindly look at the fact that after a successful and large project in which you've invested a lot of time, and I asked you about this project in my replica, equal wages, equal pensions, actually you're not a member of a working group to make one of the key laws waiting for us in the next 2 years, and that's the Labour Act, and the biggest problem is happening on the labour market right now, and the biggest number of remarks are exactly going in this direction because, as I said, the pay gap between men and women in Croatia is 13.3% in favour of men, the difference in pensions of 21.8% in favour of men, disability pensions twice the size of men's pensions rather than women. According to one study, the number of free hours a week left for a woman when she does that official part of the job she was paid for and the unpaid work at home is 24 hours a week she has free time while a man has more than 50 hours of free time. Why? Because he doesn't do this unpaid, unpaid work. When we talk about the fact that in Croatia the share of women remains 60% in the share of the highly educated population in the Republic of Croatia and make up the dominant structure of the employees in the fields of education, social care, health care, trade, service activities, but as we go up, we will say that there are many among the doctors, yes, but the directors are still men. Similarly, only 12.6% were represented in company administrations, 22.39%. In HS we say wow 23% never more than 2000. Yeah, and we forget that this HS here said that representation of women in HS should be at least 40%, and we're happy about 23%, and even happier when after the assembly, that share increases to 32. Why? Because that's where they come in as replacements. That's what we're used to. At the replacement mandates, as assistant ministers, in the seats of state secretaries, but not in the leading positions, so in the Croatian government today we do not have a single deputy prime minister, we have only five ministers compared to 18 ministers. I don't have much time, I don't have much time. In conclusion, what I wanted to say is that this picture of Croatia is still saddening us and much, much work ahead of us, and above all before us parliamentary representatives because we are you, regardless of which side we come from, who create a framework that has a great impact on the life of women in Croatia in each segment of their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97107	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97108	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with the congenital ladies and gentlemen, since we are not on the plane of the fallen Lufthansa, but in the Croatian Parliament. Yugoslav communist Marxists, after 1945, exiled the ladies and gentlemen and replaced them with a class of neutral friends and friends. Among others, the inspired Brusselsian cultures of Marxists and bureaucrats and the native theoretical commissioners no longer turned to classy but gender-spective ladies and gentlemen a few months ago. Namely, from the retort of Brussels's Commissioner for Equality of the person Dalia or Dalia's formational version of the Zagreb person Ljubicic and her close associate, an internal guide for the inclusion of Croatian so-called "involvement". an inclusive communication in which EU officials are asked, among other nonsense, to replace gender-specific address with ladies and gentlemen with a gender-involved dear colleague-in-chief college. This ideological nonsense was soon ridiculed and has so far remained uninhabited in an attempt. However, it relied on similar nonsense from July last year, which was officially accepted by the publication of Europe's largest air carrier in the so-called so-called ‘European air carrier’. The gender neutrality with the suggestion that crews of passengers no longer address and greet with ladies and gentlemen but only dear travelers for quoting a bizarre explanation is the result of changes in society that are respected by all people. I quote further, this process will take some time. Similar ideological nonsense has been inspired by both bureaucratic and gender theoretical meta-languages, a report discussed today, which was addressed as a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. Your Honor, the President of the Republic recently called you so-called. A lawyer that I, as a prisoner of legality and decency, will not, of course, do. After reading your report other than a strong feeling of only lobotomy, I approached the low experiment and the untitled content on the insight and reading of a few people of different ages, intellectual abilities and sexual belongings. I asked them to ask me after they read him the answers to two questions. First, in the report which institution is the word and second, what is the form of equality in the work of the author of the report? None of those involved in the experiment answered that it was a state body, although independent, whose leader is not chosen by the lottery draw, but by the Croatian Parliament's decision. Without a doubt, all of them concluded that it was one of the organizations called NGOs and who in their mission had a stable ideological activity, regardless of whether it was the feminism of the first, third or twentieth wave or LGBTQIA plus et cetera, et cetera activism. Nor did anyone respond that it was a gender equality facility but exclusively a problem of women's equality, not all women or women as such, but only some women and persons called LGBTQIA plus et cetera, et cetera. Since we know that only two sexes still exist, one male report in which the term is a man's mental noun or exclusively a mark for the abuser and perpetrator of the crime cannot be marked by a report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality and because of ideological pamphletism, native theoretical meta of language and content, the Advocate General's report on the equality of some women and persons LGBTQIA plus et cetera, et cetera orientations. Since this apocryphal report is inspired for ideology, the phenomenon of men’s discrimination is taboo, I will look back at several examples of what is not in the report. For example, men are sentenced to harsher and longer prison sentences. Boring research studies at the level of punishment has shown that, on average, men are sentenced to 63% of prison sentences for the same crime. Men are also victims of domestic violence, not just perpetrators, which is shyly observed in the fus note in your report, which states that out of the total number of victims of domestic violence are 30% men. Whether the application of family legislation is despite the ideal of gender equality, we are still witnessing that numerous men are discriminated against by the occasion of divorce cases, which in particular concerns child care and the frequent application of ordinary law that a mother generally takes precedence over her father, although legislation does not prescribe it. A lot of examples are also known to your office for discriminating fathers of good parents without any institutional protection subjected to moral blackmails and manipulations so that they can achieve regular meetings with children or which prevent any contact with children. In addition to the issue of male discrimination, the second taboo in this report is, of course, financial business and the answer to the question of what the specific office spent 5 million kuna. The authors of the report are inspired on nearly 3 hundreds of pages in the extensive delivery of gender ideological flossules, as well as the elaborated national and public health problems of operational procedures for changes in the sex of transgender persons at the expense of HZZO, and the inspiration of land when it is necessary to clarify what public money is spent on, based on which criteria it has been measured and why only a quarter of the cases relate to concrete complaints about discrimination, and so on. monitoring the implementation of the law, in particular the ideological gender ideological promotion and cooperation with non-governmental ideological activists organisations and the financing of ideological pseudo-search and implementation projects. Among such associations there is a special status of a project friend and favorite of the house of the Centre for Education, Consulting and Research, etc. CESI, an ideologically active platform that performs under the lovely wing “We are grandchildren of witches that you have failed to burn”. Evidence of the claim that it is an apcryphal report which selectively deals with the problem is visible in the ‘Employment and Labour’ chapter, which states that the attorney’s office has been working intensively on everything and everything other than the protection of the rights of pregnant women in labour law. So we have, among other things, a parchment of the so-called. Born segregation of the labour market, a somewhat later crucial aspect of the so-called "crucial" aspect. the gender aspect of collective bargaining, for example the labour problem, but for example the problem of labour discrimination of pregnant women, births, mothers and families with several children in the country faced with a depopulation breakdown, the Ombudsman did not notice, nor did she pay attention to it. In conclusion, the Department of Homeland Movement will vote against the adoption of this report, namely the ideological pamphlet, the 10th year of your management of this office, in particular the Ombudsman's person, has proved that in this form it is an unnecessary ideological committee to promote gender inequality that the legislator needs to be abolished and that, with his impressive experience of a life-long lawyer, and before that, the suspended civil servants after the entry of the prominent... from a pair of policies in parliamentary politics to a fallen activist government sector suffering from a crisis of sense inhaled new life. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97109	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives for the Fair Croatian Honored Representatives of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97110	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. Let's start with how it's generally known that gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities to achieve all rights, and equal benefit from the results achieved. Analyzing the content and especially the part under the heading "Employment and work activity" I recognise concern. In fact, although last year's report identified several positive trends in employment in economic disturbances as a consequence of the covida-19 pandemic, they led to negative developments in the labour market. The number of working-age residents remains in decline. After 2. consecutive regressions for the first time were reported to increase women in the active population, although the share of women in the overall range of this increase was only about 20%. The share of women in the average number of active populations was 47.5% while the share of men was 52... The share of men in the structure of the total employee was 53.1% while the share of women was 46.9%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to data from the National Labour Statistics Institute survey in the third quarter of 2020, the male employment rate was about 54% on average while the female employment rate on average was 41.3%, indicating a stagnation compared to the previous period, and the continuity of the long-standing gender gap at the employment rate. The comparison of Eurostat data for the first three quarters of 2020 and the average in 2019 shows a significant drop in contract numbers at a certain time, and about 17%, respectively, compared to both sexes. The Republic of Croatia, with an average of 6.1%, is still an EU member with the highest prerogative rate. These data represent a statistical summary of the situation with which the crisis caused by the covid-19 disease epidemic occurred in the field of employment and work. The HZZ data analysis shows that in March 2020 the number of entries in the records increased by 45% compared to the previous month and 51% to the same period in 2019. A marked increase was continued and in April 2020 when the number of entry records increased by an additional 25%. An analysis of the status that preceded the entry into the records shows that more than 85% of the persons entered the records from the working relationship, with the largest increase due to a drastic increase in the number of business conditions. The comparisons work in April and March 2020 in the HZZ records were 18759 persons, 10053 women and 8706 men, representing an increase of 436% compared to the same period in 2019. In addition to the previous period, there is also an increase in the number of entrys into the records after the end of the working contract for a specified period. Therefore, 7487 women, i.e. persons in March and 12168 in April, which can be associated with the thesis that the epidemic has profoundly negatively reflected on the affairs of pre-war nature. In doing so, it should be noted that the expiry of a fixed time contract in two observed months is approaching almost 62% of women. According to the UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women in 1979, violence against women is a form of discrimination against women. States have an obligation to deal with due diligence to prevent violence, protect victims and punish perpetrators. In accordance with Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, are bound by this Agreement. Declarations of the UN General Assembly on the elimination of violence against women from 1993 marks the term violence against women as any act of sexual violence based on a gender, or gender basis that results or may result in physical, sexual or psychological injury or the suffering of women, including threats to such acts, force or seizure of freedom in either public or private life. A general recommendation on gender-founded violence against the women of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women, which is updated on the general recommendation of '92. The year stresses that gender-founded violence against women is one of the fundamental social, political and economic instruments that retains the subordinate positions of women in relation to men as well as its stereotype roles. Through its work, the Committee has clearly shown that this violence is a key obstacle to achieving real equality between women and men, and women's rights to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms contained in the Convention. According to the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the Protection of Women against Violence, violence against Women is understood as any act of gender-founded violence resulting in or likely to result in physical, sexual, sexual, psychological or economic injury to a woman or her suffering, including threats to such acts of coercion or deprivement of freedom either in public or in private life. This includes, but is not limited to domestic or household violence, including physical and mental aggression, emotional and psychological abuse, rape or sexual abuse, incest, crime committed in the name of honor, genital mutilation, and other traditional rituals that harm women such as forced marriages. Then violence that arises in the wider community, including rape, sexual abuse, exploitation, sexual harassment and intimidation in the workplace, institutions or elsewhere, then trafficking in women for sexual and economic exploitation, violence committed or tolerated by the state or its officials, then violation of human rights of women at the time of the armed conflict especially kidnapping, violent migration, systematic rape, sexual slavery, forced pregnancy, human trafficking. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, defines violence against Women as a violation of human rights and forms of discrimination of women and marks all acts of gender-founded violence which result in or are likely to result in physical, sexual, mental or economic damage or the suffering of women, including threats to such acts, coercion or deliberate withdrawal of freedom whether they appear in public or in private life, while domestic violence defines as all acts of physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence that occur in families or households or between former or current spouses or partners regardless of whether the perpetrator or shared the same residence with the victim. Unlike other forms of violence in the Republic of Croatia, domestic violence and violence against women marks a number of specificities and characteristics that make it particularly harmful and dangerous for an individual or individual, but also for society as a whole. One of its specificities is the fact that it is born conditioned in certain cases hardly recognizable because it appears in different forms of phenomenon in general without witnesses, takes longer time and victims, due to fear and mistrust in the work of state institutions, sometimes are not inclined to report it, which then leads to the creation of a large dark number of this form of violence. With a clear trend in brutalisation of violence, i.e. the transition of violence against women and violence in the family and from the area of criminal law, the observed increase in the number of women's killings indicates that legal, judicial, media, and other educational and educational measures to combat violence against women have not yet obtained the desired results in terms of reducing the number of cases of violence against women with the worst outcome, but rather the number of women killed unfortunately is growing. In addition to figures that continue to clearly point to the significant and serious physical threat of women from close and men, this trend is the rise of the most serious crimes amongst close persons, and the absence of an adequate legal framework for the protection of victims in partner relationships that do not share the same residence requires the urgent further improvement of legislation and the system of punishing public awareness campaigns on this issue, especially men, police education, justice and state attorneys, and work to prevent domestic violence and against women at social levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97111	Next is the debate on behalf of Green-Left Block Representative Ivana Kekin's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97112	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Advocates with Associates, Secretary of State. Rulelessly caring for women, it is the basic message of this report by the lawyer for gender equality. Let's start by discussing the 2020 Attorney General's Report on 11.3.2022. which entered the Parliament procedure a year ago. Let's continue with the fact that we still don't have a national strategy for gender equality, that it's obviously not going to bring either, but that sometimes in the future we're going to get a national plan. What's the difference between strategy and plan? Well, the plan is a document of the lower order, so according to that, they won't have to discuss it in the assembly, not to waste time. However, this is not in line with the Law on Gender Equality, but I have no doubt that the ruling will show the speed to bring it in line once a strong national gender equality plan is in place. All in line with the priorities, priorities where women don't have places because women don't care. And the lawyer's report clearly indicates that if equality were a priority for the ruling, then the national strategy would be adopted by an urgent procedure. In fact, the report shows that in the field of employment and work in crisis and pandemic 2020, old pains such as that of the Croatian EU member state with the highest level of premium jobs in Europe come to the surface. So, the epidemic had exactly the greatest effect on the business of premarital nature in the sense that the contracts had not been extended, which means that since women significantly do more premise jobs, women have significantly lost their jobs to men. In particular, 37% more women than men lost their jobs in the pandemic, so work, so money, therefore economic independence, economic security. In addition to losing their jobs more often, and economic security, the burden of lockdown has also fallen significantly more, you guess the women's backs, I doubt it's surprising to anyone here. Studies show that women and children under 12 have had the most difficulty in harmonising private and business obligations throughout the EU, and that Croatian women have again drawn the worst end. Yeah, well, obviously, there's a lot of kids and houses in the care of them, where they decide on money, there's a lot of them. In economic decision-making positions, therefore in the translation of administrations, there are only 12.6%, and in the supervisory boards barely 22%, so money is decided and money is still shared by big boys. Women are rarely released to these playgrounds. There is still a pay gap, men on average earn 9.196 kuna, women on 7.970 kuna, where this gap is even larger in those activities where women are dominant, which actually means that they are represented in worse paid jobs. The example of such activities is the one I come from, so health care where all the men's bosses come from everywhere, although we have significantly more doctors than doctors, although we have significantly more nurses than technicians, and about nurses, so almost completely female, infinitely difficult and terriblely underpaid professions that I don't even begin. A little bit of St. John's positive. For the first time in his history, the spirit has been given to the female director, and I am proud to point that out. Worse than women in terms of economic inequality, older women in retirement are of course significantly less than 21% of men's pensions, and since our pensions are both misery and misery, women are most often forced to work further after the whole working life to survive, and very often this work is literally brought down to bottle collection. So as a society, we respect our wives, our sisters, our grandmothers, our mothers. And if you haven't listened with understanding or just got involved, the point of all of this so far is that women work significantly more and earn significantly less in a society in which women don't care. Let's move on. Croatia remains at the very beginning of the EU when we talk about the use of parental leave among fathers. Otherwise, many EU countries actively encourage fathers to use parental leave, however, many have an intolerable part of the parental leave reserved for men, which is certainly good from an emotional aspect so that our colleagues can connect with their babies. In addition, it is good because it is approaching the position of men and women in the labour market. If both Dad and Mom go on maternity leave or parental leave, then women will hear significantly less about those famous questions about whether they plan on having a job interview and they will get a job indefinitely. Speaking of labour markets, there has been a rise in sexual harassment at work, of course in the vast majority of women. We should not be surprised when we know that Croatia is a country where a girl who slaps a man who took her by the backside while she was serving him coffee gets a criminal report for disturbing public order and peace, in a country where teachers who harass students are protected and rewarded, in a country where women do not care about women. The report also tells us about the aspect of reproductive health, at national level, we have a continuing problem with the lack of gynaecological teams. In the public health network that is literally present in Zagreb, let alone in other parts of Our beautiful, as we have continuous difficulties in the availability of health care services, the pregnancy that we learn from the media in Vinkovačka hospital is being negotiated with the live boss, and in Kninska a woman who is unwanted can only be achieved after mandatory consultation at the Knin health home where a woman explains that every child has the right to live and that God always takes care of everything. Also mentioned are major traumas, Mother Teresa and Zlatko Sudac, unfortunately there is no mention of how to reach a doctor who will terminate pregnancy in a safe way, and these are those hospitals where not all gynecologists have a conscience, in many cases they have, so there is certainly no interruption of pregnancy in a country where women do not care. Let's move on, from the aspect of domestic violence. The pandemic year has led to a significant increase in domestic violence, so the crimes of domestic violence among close individuals has increased by as much as 29%, and a particularly high jump has been recorded in the number of crimes committed by art. 179. A penal code that grew by 39%. In order not to remain abstract, therefore, that 40% increase refers to crimes in which family members are threatened by safety, brought into a humiliating position or caused by long-term suffering, an increase of 40%. Otherwise, the numbers also clearly show that women in a very worrying low percentage report violence, only one in five will report violence because they know that the application actually puts themselves at risk of getting worse, and the system will not protect it. In 2020, of the 168 acts of rape in which 168 victims were all female, so it is clear that it is a day of gender-founded violence, and the figures are likely even larger but unreported. Also in 2020, we record the increase of murdered women, 14 of whom were killed by 9 intimate partners. It is obvious that the system of prevention of gender-based violence is not working, it is obvious that the abusers are being punished too rarely, too slow, too weak, it is obvious that the competent authorities and the judiciary do not recognise the risk factors, it is obvious that exiting from a violent relationship, opposition to a violent man, exposure to death threats still do not occur as alarms. It is obvious that despite the obvious need, the legislative framework does not change, and in order to bring it into line with the Istanbul Convention and to be more successful in preventing violence against women, it is obvious that this is why women die in a society in which women do not care. The Green-Left bloc club will certainly support this comprehensive and comprehensive report, but we appeal to the ruling one to start reading it with understanding and finally start caring for women.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97113	Following individual debates, the first respected representative is Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97114	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of the assembly, the esteemed attorney with associates, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In this presentation, I would refer to the area of health that I come from. According to the Ombudsman, of the 515 cases, 48 cases that were solved were related to healthcare, 8.9% of complaints were related to health institutions, 11.2% of warnings, recommendations and proposals were sent to health institutions. It is also good to cite this international project to advocate the health care of women based on evidence at the time of the covida-19 pandemic where the other of the two main objectives is particularly highlighted, which is to strengthen pregnant women and births to protect their rights and dignity in the health system. We all know that many women have suffered the burden of pandemics such as health workers, social care, education and education, trade and other sectors. Housework, salary heights, prices of hygiene products for women, health protection, preventive activities, these are all areas that you can talk about a lot. There is little more to the problem of reproductive birth rights and pregnant women, i.e. the availability of medical services to patients or patients. In fact, you stated in 2019 that there are missing teams in the health care system, 117 in family medicine, 61 in gynaecology and 53 in pediatrics, in 2020 you continued to monitor the situation and still lack gynaecological teams, 62 missing the necessary 335. For family medicine you did not specify anything special, but what I do know because I am following and we already have 104 teams without doctors in the family medicine, 185 are over 65 years old, so virtually already missing 300. As for the lockdown itself, here for the purposes of this debate, I contacted several gynological offices in Međimurje and here are the colleagues who said that during the lockdown they were taking care of pregnant women, emergency patients and oncology patients, they were available by email, telephone, Viber, Messenger, and they didn't actually do routine checks, everything else. This is then seen in the number of women examined, or the number of procedures, especially in April, but then something recovered. They also pointed out to me from one office a special problem which was of course in all the offices, but they reminded me of that, the problem of passes, so women even pregnant women couldn't come to the exams and from neighboring municipalities, but then fortunately the decision was made that passes could be issued by doctors, so their patients were also sent passes, and it really should be taken care of if God didn't let anything happen again. The threat to women's and children's health was not at least based on data from the offices in our area. The next question is a birth date. Here you have also stated in your report that you addressed the Ministry by letter 30.7.2020 because you pointed out the importance of the presence of an escort for parents, for births and recommended the establishment of a protocol for treatment, numerous births and pregnant women also reported to the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Health and Health institutions. Here I am, getting myself involved in this problem as soon as my pregnant women came to me. That was in 2021, though. In the spring where I was then in the presentations in the assembly, I think that here I first pointed to the parliamentary issues and, with the personal contact of the minister, asked for an escort to the births, and then that final memo was sent to 20.5. to all healthcare institutions to really do everything and to provide birth care. So, by working together we can do a lot, we need to empower pregnant women and births to fight for the protection of their rights. As far as healthcare professionals are concerned, we have already heard that they are the largest number of female employees, while men are 21.9% in the health care and social care activities and precisely on the poorly paid occupations of the housekeeper, laundry and ironists are women. In high school, women dominate the university again, but in health care management positions there are significantly more men, and in certain workplaces of the type of emergency medical care, X-ray, OHBP surgery, intervention cardiology are mostly men. There are, of course, more paid occupations and pensions, and there are not many of them in the departments of patients, and they do not show themselves much of an affinity, and it would be good for them to be in the departments because the sisters themselves say they talked to so that the patients would treat both the women and the doctors themselves who often do what you do not mean to men. So it would still be easier for someone to be a little more participated by our male colleagues. I don't have any more room. I've had so much, enough to say. But here. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97115	One replica of the esteemed representative Rose Wolfovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned lockdown and its consequences, so here's the data indicating that the effects of the labour market epidemic have been significantly more affected by women. Only according to the analysis of the entry into the HZZ records is that 37% more women remained outside the working relationship during this period compared to men. Therefore, the analysis of the data provided by the State Bureau of Statistics on the number and structure of legal persons employees indicates that the number of employees in the processing industry, the trade in large and small, the activities of providing accommodation and the preparation and service of food and administrative and auxiliary services. So, all those activities that women do most of the time. Do you think now in this time of calming it has returned to its former, have the women come back to their own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97117	Well, it's hard for me to say for all these areas that you've listed the situation, we can all just hope that this pandemic will stop and things will get better. I'd just look back on the area of health that I didn't get to tell you to the end, and it's actually on to this one of yours. So, what do we meet in health care? We're all mobilized. You have to know that for two years. And all of us, doctors and nurses and nurses, the nurses in that wungula in this work on shifts in duty, we simply couldn't afford to be with children or families because of this mobilization. There's been a lot of Covid patients, there's a lot of our employees and there's no one to replace, and there's just too little talk about it, but I'm also saying this is all that you've listed and hopefully in health care that a little things are going to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97118	Next individual debate by the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97119	Thanks again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected lawyers with associates, I think you are still doing well in view of some frameworks that should be an additional mechanism to strengthen the role and position of a woman in society, which at this point does not exist, and indirectly concerns and then the possibility of reducing the pressure in applying to your office to achieve greater steps from year to year. It is unacceptable, in fact, that the Republic of Croatia has not had a national policy for gender equality for six years, and even worse than that, it does not intend to bring it. Rather, he intends to bypass or undo a completely legislative framework and turn that national policy into a simple plan that the government would adopt. The point is that politics is brought precisely by the Croatian Parliament because every year the Croatian Parliament discusses the work of the Advocate General who clearly defines the shifts, but also the neural points of the system. However, this is not surprising because the Republic of Croatia does not have a national anti-discrimination plan that should be valid from 2017 to 2022, and the last action plan was adopted in 2019. So two roof documents that should somehow offer solutions, measures and some action plans to improve those results and those problems that, here every year we face and through the lawyers' reports of gender equality, we do not have. The government seems to have given up, on any serious, structured, excessive and strategic approach to achieving the goal we need to have, which is equal treatment, equal approach, combating discrimination and full gender equality. Two years after the Constitutional Court decision and de facto, I will not say any recommendations but to the Croatian Parliament to choose to amend the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy or the Law on Abdication by the Croatian Government, or for 5 years, does nothing because it does not wish to be resented by a good part of the right electoral body. And that's why we in law have what it is, that the right to medical termination of pregnancy in Croatia has existed since '78. years, but it doesn't exist. There are no many reasons not to list them now, but some colleagues have said. And we're hiding our eyes from where in one part we don't provide certain health care and the right that's defined by the law of a certain part of women, that's none of our business. And we systematically violate the law which leaves the law a dead letter on paper, and we do nothing to remove these administrative obstacles. We had a similar example here a month ago, not full two months ago. The Constitutional Court says nicely that you should not have discriminated through the law by a group of citizens just because they live in a formal or informal life partnership you should not have made it impossible for them to access the provision of social services in foster care. What do you do when you're passing a new law? You do it again and you say it and the courts do it. On what basis do the courts act? Based on interpretation, recommendation, constitutional court decisions? So Croatia's courts should be tried under Croatian law. That's not good. If this is happening at the highest levels of Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such neglect, such positivity and such incursion of the basic constitutional settings, what can we expect in real life? To do institutions, to do violence within four walls when the state, when it does HS, the majority in HS and the Croatian government. That's not the way to go and we should go instead of moving forward in some things, I know that some paths are difficult, that they're long, that some set goals of utopia and almost inaccessible, but this kind of systematic disabling of the steps that are possible by those who should do exactly the opposite is unacceptable. And I didn't really want to talk about this, I wanted to go a little bit more into the details, but I think this is extremely important and that this is where we need to talk about it. And in this way we will give stronger tools and defences, but also to all of our citizens who daily because of our inactions are discriminated against.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97120	Time. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97121	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. I agree with you, the place in the assembly and the assembly pay phone is the place to talk. In its 2020 report, The D.A. mentioned the problem of termination of pregnancy. We hide our heads, look down, and we don't want to talk. What are we gonna do about it? So it's 2022 today. I remember very well, I was one of those women who kept her pregnant and lay in the hospital the whole time, one respected professor who said then, admired those women who had been keeping their pregnancy from the start and told these women who kept their pregnancy, there's nothing a woman would do without lying and keeping her pregnant, but if she has an unwanted pregnancy, if they have a problem, she'll do anything to solve it. What are we going to bring back to women? On the kitchen tables? [[Stain Sanader: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97122	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97123	This country is forcing women to go outside Croatia or to work in a gray zone where their health is threatened, sometimes their lives. It is the right of every woman to decide how to create her life and how to dispose of her body, to decide when to give birth and how much to give birth, and in some cases without entering into her reasons why, even though she is pregnant, she cannot or does not want to give birth and no one has the right to enter that part of private space. The state should ensure that in cases where it cannot or does not wish to give birth to ensure that it is safely medically discontinued. However, nothing of this government is interested in the Constitutional Court's decision. Well, you remember, my club proposed a new law, the government didn't manifest itself to the ninjas, so I guess that's the only law that came to HS for discussion without the government wanting to show themselves about it. Why? Don't mind a part of the electoral body. Calculating We're playing with women's fates. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97124	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97125	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Voice. I fully agree with your presentation, however, from it, and also from the numerous data provided by the Ombudsman, I think it can be concluded that the debate on gender equality and on the position of women is not a legal issue, but above all a secular issue. I think we have a problem with how Croatian politics, especially in HDZ's power looks at women, so I invite you to comment on the way the Prime Minister congratulated this year on Women's Day when he said in a way that they were slightly different or slightly more valuable to those women who cherish family values. I don't know if I belong in that category of women, or maybe I'm giving up on that standard of family that sees him as the current government. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97126	I'm thinking the same thing about Mrs. Secretary's timely statement when she commented on a case of violence, so she went to relativize it and said, that's how it's married to you. I'm thinking the same thing. And we can't understand that every woman is equally valuable and that every woman has the right to decide whether she wants to be only a mother and a housewife without being seen in any kind of professional development that's her right. Equally, a woman who just wants to be professionally accomplished, doesn't want to be a mother, doesn't seem like a wife, that's her right. But the most complex task actually in front of the state is that the woman who wants one another and has the right to allow it to be. And this congratulatory of Mr. Plenkovic I absolutely don't understand and condemn and it's such a bad step back in redistributing women that those who are committed to family values are more valuable than they are. Which they're not. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97127	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97128	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Of all the documents that come to HS's agenda, it somehow seems to me that the reports may be the most important, important of the law. The laws are amended, however, they should be changed on the basis of those data, those knowledge, those instructions and recommendations submitted by the competent authorities to HS in their reports. There's 70 of them all together. Among them is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. I must say that I consider it actually declassified to discuss any report, as well as this extremely important moment when there are fewer than a dozen parliamentary deputies in the Croatian Parliament. If so, if we could know that on Fridays at this time most of our MPs are somewhere on the highway, on the way to their homes, then perhaps we should have chosen another topic of the agenda for this term. And by putting in this particular report, we also showed how the government of the Republic of Croatia, as president and chairman of the Croatian Parliament, as their parliamentary majority see the status of women in Croatian society. They come last, they're irrelevant, secondary and irrelevant. That's about what this debate is all about. If I were to talk about the content of this report more or less, I could repeat everything I said in the previous report, because there has been no movement, unfortunately, in these years. Here, the attorney present can only congratulate her and her entire office on the really dedicated work, on a comprehensive report that shows the problems women face and in some segments of the smaller part and men in different fields of action and work. So I'm not going to talk about them, I'm saying other than congratulations and praise, but I'm going to talk about where the problem with the reports is in general. In fact, these 70 reports for each one have different rules. For this particular report, see Article 22. The anti-discrimination law only states, therefore, one general provision until when there is a obligation to apply it. It is not precisely developed by law, which should be contained in this report at all. Fortunately, there is enough responsibility by the attorney general, so more or less stick to what is in her jurisdiction and part-time work, but let's just say that it is not so, that there is no awareness in the leadership itself, or in the staff attorney she could write in the report anything, and the Croatian Parliament could not say anything about it. There is no procedure, nor obligation within the Croatian Parliament itself that a single report to be filed should be discussed by 31 March, i.e. until 1 April. It's absurd for me to be here today, especially on the day that we're talking among other things, and that an unmanned vessel has fallen, we're discussing a report for the year 2020, the pandemic year. What happened in the meantime? If in such a way the Republic of Croatia treats the relevance of certain information, then it is no wonder that we are lagging behind in everything, then it is no wonder that we cannot respond in time to the needs and rights of our citizens. In addition to the obligation or regulation of a clear obligation, the Croatian Parliament has to do something about the report submitted and its instructions within a certain period of time and to show itself about what it has done, in which way recommendations, proposals, criticisms and comments by the Ombudsman are respected, such a debate is, in fact, groundless. The attorney for gender equality will in any case mean a lot that we will accept the report. But that's not enough. I think that the law should make it clear what acceptance, non-acceptance or receiving knowledge of a particular report means and whether it is also for the Croatian Parliament and a certain obligation. And as far as the content itself is concerned, although this is one of the more quality reports that we Parliamentarians can read, I would add that in the future, the God-in-Office of Gender Equality analyses whether the financial resources spent in certain activities were well spent or better deployed differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97129	Time. Replica's respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97130	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is therefore difficult to choose which term is best for discussion. You know that we always get some appointments, and we think about them with proposals from the opposition, and we get some terms that are just before the end, so we get some kind of nighttimes. But it's not an important term, it's important, and it doesn't matter that someone's been to the vote today and they're already traveling and they're already at the checkout houses, it's important to discuss, it's important to speak. I think it's good to know that there are different opinions. It wouldn't be good if we all thought. This is one of the reports we have the right to think about and think differently, because it's the only way we can take a step forward. But what we all need to ask ourselves together is, do we all really want a bunch of topics in this country one step ahead or another deep in place, and standing in place is a step back.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97131	I agree we should think about moving forward. I think a change of attitude towards women is a first step, which is why I also referred to the debate of my colleague, Glasovac. I think that, especially for younger generations, very contradictory messages are being sent about what is expected of them. I think that we are not enough for young generations to point out how important it is to be economically independent and independent, how much their freedom and the right to change at some point their earlier decision, and, among other things, about what they will be and what kind of family they will have and design, and without condemning them for that society. I think that state policies should be focused on giving everyone an equal chance, the report is talking about it. However, if we see the funds spent on certain ministries, there are still no signs of such policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97132	The next replica of the respected representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97133	My colleague Oreshković, there are some reports that we in Parliament are discussing from 2019. So that I fully agree with you here that this is crazy dynamics, just like the insanely arranged policy-relation system towards independent institutions and others, but here and the case when we talk about lawyers. Not only did you mention that it is not very clear that, with a report like this, the attempt of politics or even a successful attempt where the actual acceptance or non-acceptation of the report has been instrumented for the purpose of a potential accounting with the Advocate or Advocate who wrote in the report something that the rulings do not like at that time. Let's remember how Ivan Milas Klaric ended up, that's something to stop, ban and put everything into operation the way it was arranged with the attorney general, although I know that she is a special category, but it is necessary to ensure independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97134	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97135	That we have a 2018 report that has not yet seen the light of day in this debate. But what I wanted to point out was the twisting of the thesis, so it seems to me that one of the attorneys is reporting to HS that it should be a mirror first and a criticism of society. And if that's the case, then there must be clearly prescribed obligations for different ministries, including HS itself, and someone who hasn't acted on what one of the attorneys says, should be held accountable or so to say should be given by tail. And instead, we have some debates that are as if they are our own purpose, where each of the political parties or clubs will, in accordance with their worldly horizons, highlight what is important to them. However, the responsibility of the authorities for not acting on the counsel's proposals is nowhere to be found, and here is the question for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97136	Next individual debates by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97137	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected attorneys with associates, colleagues and two colleagues. So we have before us a report from the Ombudsman on gender equality for 2022. I would say a word about a very, very decent year, and by all accounts, when a report for 2022 will be discussed there, I'm afraid that 2022, which we thought would end all things with the crown, will be even more challenging. The lawyer's report is in the part that's actually formally done properly, very correctly, the lawyer talks about work and everything that's important and we don't have any doubt about it and support it. The report shows that it is 2020. It was very challenging, showing what was happening at all in that year that we were incarcerated. I usually think that the Corona era when all those things that were otherwise characteristic of our society came out even more and more. I've also spoken on behalf of the club about two topics and I'm going to talk and continue here on two topics. One topic is women and sports, and another topic is women's reproductive health. Women and sports, so what it shows all the time is this invisibility of women's sports in the media, we see that they have significantly less invested in women's sports. So when girls, when young women get a result in sports, that's when you have opportunities in the media third, fourth or fifth news. I know football is always the first news, but it's also one of the last news and it's equally important to put emphasis on it. An accent that also shows this kind of stereotype of athlete and female sports. What kind of girl sport is that? What kind of sport is that women are entitled to and which ones aren't? So on that one sexually unequal condition when it deals with sports, it is therefore a part that is extremely important. Instead of encouraging women, girls to play sports, to point out everything, I think we still have those stereotypes about male and female sports, not to say that it's always turned into something else. And that part at all, the relationship of certain and abuse that some young girls or women have been through, I won't even speak. But what she showed in 2020. the availability of gynaecological examinations or the availability of women in general gynological teams. There's this great association that I'm not praising right now, and I'm not going to mention her name, but we know what the research is about, and among other things, we've had this great debate where we're starting to cut VAT taxes or reduce VAT to menstrual supplies and the general word menstrually from this pay phone is so difficult for some of us to drop, so reducing VAT to hygienic pads and tampons from 25 to 5%, now we're going to get some kind of transition to 13%. But when you read this research carefully, then this research talked about a large number of women who are inaccessible to health care, about a large number of women who are inaccessible to gynecological examinations and regardless of what is said in the rural part of Croatia, but it has proved to be expressed in other parts of Croatia. I won't miss speaking here without once again talking about the availability of a medical service interrupting pregnancy. 2022. is, so I understand at all the appeal of conscience even though I have to admit that I don't understand that someone decided to specialize in gynecology and then has a conscience call behind it. It looks to me like someone specializes in surgery, but it doesn't operate on his appendix, because the appeal to his conscience doesn't allow him to operate on his appendix, and anything else can, but it doesn't or don't know his arm or anything else. I don't understand this appeal of conscience, but what must be a minimum of standards, and it can't happen that we have any single health care institution that's funded from the budget, and that it doesn't guarantee the possibility of a health care service ending pregnancy. Let's not take a step back, let's not put women back in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97138	Time, replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97139	Thank you. I did not arrive in my speech to refer to the descriptions of individual cases of persons who addressed the prosecutor for gender equality. I am pleased that our citizens recognize that it is an institution that can react, and very often it is found that it is much faster and more effective than those other forms of legal protection were used, so I will look back on the case of HRT and the changed leader for age. In short, it was found that HRT did not act in the same way with male colleagues who had not been removed from their leadership position only because they came in those years when aesthetically and age they are not attractive to viewers. Well, the D.A.'s office reacted well, but HRT said it briefly, so we're very good at accepting what you say, but more or less nothing is left in the same way. It shows that through public bodies we have false standards and that we do not adhere to the standards that are prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97140	Time, response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97141	Thank you very much. So, I can understand things, and I can understand things, and I can understand things, but something that's hypocritical is very difficult for me and I find it hard to understand. Indeed, we had this HRT case where absolutely certain women who worked were said to be unable to work anymore, not to mention anyone, or where we all know it and we can find it because it's not their age and they decided to put it all away together and put some, so younger, younger person. What always scares me, and I'm always kind of, feeling bad and thinking why we didn't take a step forward. See when women are commented in politics, first they comment on what they look like, then they comment on how they're dressed, starting with parliamentary MPs, and then what they're saying, and it's actually supposed to be the other way around. When it comes to us, it should be much more important what we say and what messages we send than all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97142	Time. Next individual debate, respected representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed attorneys with co-workers, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. We are discussing a report on 2020, a pandemic year that has been challenging for both women and men. I don't think anyone was easy in that crisis. I would specifically refer to a group of women who are being touched and the Ombudsman in their report, it is about women in the rural area who are in fact somehow unrecognizable, their work is not recognised, their multi-functional role is not valued enough, they are often without any ownership and over agricultural land and property. Their contribution to food production, the preservation of biodiversity, their contribution to the whole family, the preservation of values, and in this sense, we, within the Committee on Agriculture, encouraged this debate to encourage decision-makers to identify this group of women through strategic documents, and here I also need to thank the Ombudsman who supported us in this segment so that I hope that in some future reports we will still have more positive trends than those we have recorded so far when we talk about a group of women in rural space. The result of these negotiations with the Ministry of Agriculture is that in the framework of the National Plan for Gender Equality from 2021 to 2024. The agriculture ministry will include in a way that will take steps to improve the position of women in the country. Also, since it was at the stage of production when we discussed the Agriculture Strategy, we managed to position the small door somehow and rural women in the context of education, training, skills development, and I hope to reflect this on the National Strategic Plan within the framework of the common agricultural policy because I will only repeat once again what I have said about this speaker that the common agricultural policy allows us to introduce specific sub-programmes for women, that unfortunately no Member State has done so today, and that would be the kind of sub-programmes we have for young people who provide direct financial resources, which encourage employment, development of local products, entrepreneurship in rural areas, of course, for women in rural areas. Well, I believe here's how all of our initiatives that we've encouraged are going to work in that sense. Another topic I want to touch is the establishment of a balance between private and business life, and I will especially apostrophe one group of women I think is neglected and underestimated because most of the employees are women, there are over 120,000 of them, they work 3 weeks without interruption, without any day of rest, if even an age may be a replacement holiday day then it happens that this is the day when their family is not at home and for this reason I have submitted the initiative to amend the Law on Trade and to ensure, above all, a free Sunday and decent working time for all the employees of the store. And I will remind you that in 2019, the European Parliament adopted the Directive on the establishment of a business, balance between business and private life and that all Member States should in fact implement this directive in a final manner with this year. I will also remind myself that the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, by 2030, states that, in the context of the policy of improving human potential, as well as demographic policies, will shape and implement measures that will facilitate the creation of an effective balance between business and family life, especially young families and women. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to call on the Advocates to also recognize the value in this initiative and to support it because I think it is very important that we really consistently try to implement this directive and implement it, and also to recognize these sensitive groups of women because I see that you have dedicated yourself in detail to working-law relations. It might also be good to structure by the occupations that these groups are sub-represented and perhaps through designing measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97144	Time. Replica, dear Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97145	Yes, the said Directive on balance between business and private life has not yet been adopted. Obviously, we'll wait for the last minute. I'm going to ask you a question that concerns precisely the problem of harmonising business and private life. Women entrepreneurs complained a lot about the Law of Contributions because it actually doubled the contributions they must make if they work part - time, and those women who have a private life in terms of having a family do not have such a harmonised working time. As a result, there are very few women in entrepreneurship who are unable to pay such contributions. Do you think it should go in the direction of some legislative changes that would recognise the specific position of women entrepreneurs in the labour market where they would meet in this incomplete working time that would then not be seen as potential exploitation in terms of paying for minor contributions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97146	Thank you very much, dear colleague Selak-Raspadić on the replica. So I think it is necessary to do an analysis not only of the women entrepreneurs sector, but in general of all sectors and the moment when more different laws will be changed, because we cannot implement the Directive on the establishment of a balance between business and private life through just one law, then it is absolutely certain that this issue that you have asked has its place. I don't have specific data right now, but I think it's worth the analysis. And if they do, then the results of that analysis are that it deserves a review of the legal frameworks why not. But I think it has to be dispersed to all other sectors. I touched the store because it seems to me that this is an area that is truly underrated, where it is about women who work for minimum wage, which is exploited to the limit, that there are employers who really don't respect their human dignity, that I don't give examples of rarely having a break, let alone having something to eat or go to the toilets which are some normal needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97147	Time. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97148	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you were in your debate, but we could also see the prosecutor's report on the theme "women in rural areas". Their role is invaluable. They represent a significant potential only we need to know how to make better use of it. Women in rural areas show, promote the boundaries of how life in those environments can be both beautiful and good. You have been working on this topic in the European Parliament for a long time, but also in the Croatian Parliament. How can we further strengthen, encourage young women to stay in these areas, promote these rural beauty that we have, and how can we, as public figures, be involved in helping these women to further encourage them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97149	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk on the line. Certainly, women in the rural area play a multi-functional role and their contribution is immeasurable and we need to recognize what it means that through the action plans, through the strategies we adopt, through legislation, we need to create a framework of incentive measures that will encourage them to be the bearers of family economies. It's only 30% of women today. In Croatia are the holders of family economies. It is the same in other European countries. So we're nothing worse here, but it only shows one perception, or one image, in which perhaps those ownership and management positions are still deployed in rural areas. If different incentive measures were introduced not only for the acquisition of knowledge, education, skills, but also for concrete assistance to open up a family economy that will vote on a woman or if she could enter the ownership of agricultural land Then it would certainly be easier to make that decision. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97150	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97151	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Petyr, at the very beginning you mentioned women in rural areas, so here I'm going to confirm again that this report also says that women are carriers of everything in 30% of the cases. It's probably because women are owners of agricultural land in 15% of cases, and that's going into a deeper analysis, I assume, are either acquired by inheritance or by chance by some divorce case. It is hardly possible for spouses to invest in the purchase of agricultural land that will vote on a woman with a new value, and it is doubtful that the family’s agricultural economy will not be able to vote on a woman. This creates this economic dependence. When we link it to all that in these areas and the poorer availability of doctors, that in the event of discrimination or not giving God's violence, it is even harder to reach institutions, then we see how much more difficult these women are in the area. What We Can Do about this property? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97152	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97153	Thank you, colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. You said everything exactly. Of course, ownership is always something that is considered very private and that is difficult to touch. We are now also in the phase of making a final proposal of the agricultural land law where priority will be given to the host population, small and medium-sized family economies, young farmers and in this segment should somehow profile the mentality and way of thinking that even ownership of the land, over the property, over the farm should be distributed or transferred to younger generations. What joys to have an ever-increasing number of young educated women who take over family economies and they are extremely successful because they do not only produce the primary product but also finalize it and thus show that their creativity and entrepreneurial spirit is something worth investing in, but the question is: The property is something... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97154	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorably, Petir, you spoke of empowering women and their greater importance to family farms. The general problem of women entrepreneurs can say at national level should be more invested in the development of women entrepreneurs. But I would refer here to the fact that the prosecutor said, so Croatia is a small country, but if we look at the county there are great differences. I would dare say that, especially where the rural population is in a larger proportion, we have a bigger problem than the violence of women who suffer and who are victims of domestic violence, and I think that the attorney's office should also give an additional impulse. There is also Mr. Martinovic, State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice, it would be very interesting to see statistics. I think the question of consciousness in certain counties is different compared to, say, bigger centres like the City of Zagreb where zero tolerance is indeed zero to women victims of violence. in some counties, unfortunately [[Intruder: Time.]] It's not like that, though. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97156	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97157	Thank you, fellow Cellic, that is certainly one sensitive question that is not sufficiently communicated in rural areas, and even when the water really reaches the throat and when certain women decide to seek help or to initiate certain actions, at least what I know about examples does not end with some happy outcomes because very rare of them manage to start a new life somewhere away from a potential abuser. After all the activities taken, they return because many of them are unemployed, have no property. Some of them, I would say, have not acquired a certain calling or occupation, and they have been constrained. But this is a matter that needs to be devoted and within the profession to seek solutions and exit situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97158	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97159	Thank you. Here's a colleague you mentioned the question of actually the balance between private and business life and actually the conditions and work of women, which is otherwise a particularly important dimension of course in gender equality. For this element of gender equality, it is crucial that services in the community are like kindergartens and when we look at Croatia, we really do not have enough kindergartens and infrastructure for preschool education. In response to the requirement that we actually need more children in kindergartens, the government proposes a new Law on Preschool Education and Education in which it abolishes the state pedagogical standard so that perhaps more children could be put into the same kindergarten group instead of actually having a fast investment in kindergarten infrastructure, but in, and in kindergarten breeders and educators. So how do you comment on abolishing the state pedagogical standard in the context of preschool education and education as an important element of services for women?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97160	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97161	Thank you, colleagues, Bencic on the line. What I can tell you about is that this government has built over 200 kindergartens through its mandate so far. So I wouldn't say he's not investing in kindergarten. What's still a plan to invest in kindergartens. I think the contests are moving soon. The part will also be financed from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I think the competition will go to school as well. But what I would like to appeal to, and what I have said more than once, I am concerned that most of these investments are coming from a rural development programme. And in that sense, I would ask that other ministries and the relevant funds be involved, above all, and the Regional Development Fund, because everything that goes from the Rural Development Fund to the infrastructure that is not only in the rural environments, it is evident that it will remain less for the development of a rural space that we really need other types of infrastructure. So the government builds kindergartens, they'll keep building them. I'm just asking for other funds to be included except for the rural one. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97162	Next individual debate, respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97163	Before I begin to discuss the position of women in the labour market and the way we can use the position of women in the labour market and the major problem of domestic violence that affects women to the greatest extent, I want to resolve a concern that has arisen in the debate previously. So someone said that there are some among us here who are surprised that someone is talking exclusively and mostly about women’s dangers or women’s rights in the context of gender equality, given the state of society and the role in society that women have, or their inequality. First, it's a big difference between talking exclusively and talking mostly. And secondly, as far as I'm concerned, I think each of us has the full right to talk only about female inequality when we talk about gender equality or just male inequality or about both of those items depending on what kind of contribution he wants to make. However, when we talk about the Ombudsman's report on gender equality, not according to my wishes, but in accordance with the legal regulations, the Law on Gender Equality Article 5, 6 and further on 19, 23, as regards the part of the Advocate General, it is her responsibility to deal with the equality of both sexes, which she also points out in the introduction of this report in her vision, even taking into account that no one can prescribe for anyone in whom all of these works are women or men neglected when I was talking about where men are in an unequal position in relation to women, I have served exclusively the data from this report, so the data that are listed here, and nevertheless problemed in a way that only women are concerned, although men are more victims of human trafficking, addictions, etc. That I'm not just repeating the report. So I also explained why I think it encourages gender gaps, prevents dialogue, damage both women and men. As for the position of women in the labour market, since we have not been able to welcome amendments to the Labour Act that have been spoken of for some time, I personally suggested amendments to the Labour Law to improve the position of women on the labour market, so that we should be constructive and that the sooner we can improve the position of women on the labour market, in line with the fact that we are here a legislative body and that our basic task is to propose legal solutions. In this regard, I have proposed amendments concerning the need for the employer to enable parents and children under 12 years of flexible working conditions to provide childcare. Then, if a worker asks for flexible working hours, she cannot be cancelled. Furthermore, I have suggested what I have announced, and at the beginning of my parliamentary term, the introduction of so-called "supervised". dissonations of the right to exclusion or that after working time, the worker may be excluded and that this is not subject to labour obligations. And this is particularly difficult for women who are facing a large part of the household work and care for children, and when they have to work parallelly, given that they are increasingly working from home, so that the border between private and business is greatly clouded, I believe that this right to the exclusion that exists in France and in some other countries would facilitate their separation of private and business life. I also proposed introducing the principle of equal pay and at work from home or work outside the employer's headquarters or place of work. Therefore, the law is referred to the procedure or amendments to the Labour Act, so we will see what will happen to this legislative proposal. The problem that must have hit us most is the dramatic increase in domestic violence that requires a strong institutional response, especially in times of crisis. In this regard, I believe that there are insufficient daily reports in the calendar of domestic violence, we need publicly available weeks and monthly reports as well as reports that provide a comparative analysis at least compared to the previous year so that we can see and work on negative trends earlier. Due to the principle of decline of offenders, and the increase in criminal charges is important and more careful professional analysis of available statistics with the aim of responding to the system's effectiveness issue. And of course, what hurts most given that about 90% of penalties imposed is only conditional upon ensuring transparent monitoring of judicial proceedings and their duration and judgments with a view to fostering the effectiveness of the judiciary. So, here's because we've discussed the situation of women one of the biggest problems women encounter is precisely the harmonisation of private and business life on the labour market, and on the other hand, the pain of our and every society violence against women, and in this sense, this is an attempt of some constructive proposals that could improve or reduce violence against women and improve the position of women on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97164	Replica is a respected representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you spoke about establishing a balance between business and private life, you also touched some of the measures that might be useful, you spoke about the example of France that introduced, in fact, through its legislation, the possibility of this right to discrimination. At European level, this has been discussed for a very long time, but no agreement has actually been reached because it seems that there is still no agreement on the Working Time Directive and this is a matter left to Member States to regulate it on their own. Well, we're still fighting some basic civilization achievements here because I think the right to Sunday off is a civilization issue, so let's try to start with that arrangement first, and since we have international contracts to end up writing it to us in the Labour Law. But in practice, obviously, here's if we're talking about merchants it's not the right we consume.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97166	I will agree with you that it is important to highlight their position that they are in a far more unfavourable position than many citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they are indeed not only metaphorically but also literally working on the track and that is the problem they are facing. And I think we should show a form of social solidarity when we talk about Sunday, a day that would be vacation day so that they can rest too. When I went through different malls and shops, many merchants just asked me about it and literally begged us to fight for their rights, and I agree that there should be the greatest emphasis on it. However, this separation of private and business in the era of virtuality where we are all on cell phones nonstop available, where everything is done more than a home-enabled covid crisis, and in the future maybe that's the only thing that awaits us is a serious problem, especially because this private part of which is not paid, even for those who want to, so I think we have to go towards this discrepancy, but also many other measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97167	Following is an individual discussion of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97168	Dear Madam Attorneys with fellow Members of State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll look back on this chapter on women addicts. There are specificities when we talk about differences between women and men in general for mental disorders and so on with addiction. When it comes to the cause of addiction in women, it is the most significant trauma that can be caused by sexual physical and family violence, as well as by stigmatisation based on poverty, raciality and/or sexual orientation. Often this trauma produces some susceptible mental disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder, various anxiety and depression disorders, and on the other hand, a male partner may be the initiator that affects a young woman to start using drugs and alcohol, and in fact these female addicts are very often burdened with violence and abuse. I'm glad that the attorney's office paid special attention to this because unfortunately there are four different treatment communities in the Republic of Croatia that care about women addicts, but there's one principle of recovery as a real therapeutic goal for those women addicts who remain on opiate substitution therapy, and I'll remind you of the original statement by Nora Volkow, who is the director of the American National Drug Abuse Institute, who said there should be no perfect obstacle to good. Therefore, a smaller group of addict women can go towards full recovery as a real therapeutic goal, however, a significant number of women addicts, especially in the case of opiate addiction, will remain on opiate substitution therapy, and these women should also be offered a quality health and social service. Also a growing number of men and women addicts who are getting older and older, who are without family support and also at the level of the Republic of Croatia we have already begun to think the truth more about men, but will definitely need to think about some smaller community, some smaller home for women of older age, who have a problem of addiction. One of the major problems is women addicts who serve a prison sentence and then end up on the road, have no place to go because they have often been victims of domestic violence, should also be taken care of because there is an extremely high risk of committing suicide or of overdose with various illegal substances. There is a very well-listed example from neighbouring Slovenia of social worker Sabine Zorec, who started a smaller home within the company Stigma. It is very important to break certain prejudices because we are talking about a very vulnerabilities, marginalized and Stigmatized group of people. One very valuable project that lasts until April this year is a project launched by the humanitarian community Meeting on Social Services for Women, Pregnants and Addictionary Mothers. They started a house for women addicts a few months back. There are, for example, programs within the Community of Pope John XXIII. which is a mixed type, therefore also for women and men addicts, but I think there should be an additional impulse in the area of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what the attorney said that we may have about 1700 women addicts who were treated last year whether it was alcohol, whether it was drugs, which is slightly less than 20%, so as it should not pay much attention, I think that this should be given a very great deal of attention, especially in women who come from smaller backgrounds, who come from rural areas, which are further stegmatised and therefore as such exposed to the risk of multiple discrimination. I would say, in the end, that the system of treatment for addicts in Croatia is quite good, but communication between social care institutions and health institutions should still move forward and this is in line with the counsel's recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97169	Replica esteemed Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97170	Dear colleague Celic, I agree with everything you said, so except that women are addicted to a specific situation, which we can link it often to earlier traumas and are at risk, at risk of multiple discrimination. It is a problem that is in some way unrecognizable and needs to be devoted to it very closely. But what I'm interested in is how do you explain in terms of your own profession that you have really had such a large number of men who are significantly larger 5-1 than women, and it's similar when we talk about alcohol addiction. Is this related to some imposed social roles where it is assumed from the earliest age that a man is a simplified man if he drinks, if he is an addict, etc., he thus shows his strength and what we can do and whether we should commit ourselves to breaking those prejudices and ultimately having a better and healthier society, to free men from stereotypes that must follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97171	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97172	Thank you. Dear Representatives Selak Rasdic, you have well noticed therefore the percentages are significant in favour of men, there are a number of reasons. One of these reasons is, after all, that we live in a society that is what it is. If we talk about alcohol, which is still the biggest problem in some absolute numbers as far as addiction in the Republic of Croatia, then we can tie it to some stereotypes and some traditions where human life begins and ends with toasting with a glass, on the other hand, it's much more acceptable in our society to see an alcoholic man than a woman without talking about illegal drugs. It is precisely this stigma that women suffer that further leads to a small number of women who experience treatment and that also contributes to these percentages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97173	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97174	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cellic, you spoke of a vulnerable group, these are women addicts whom the attorney paid attention to in this report. I remember that you had an initiative that applied to cancer patients, especially women who go to radiation or chemotherapy to provide them with free transportation within the City of Zagreb. My question is how did this initiative succeed, and can we think a step further because we know that the problem of going to radiation and chemotherapy is for women and men who do not live in the City of Zagreb really a big challenge and quite demanding and that for this reason many do not have adequate treatment or even give up treatment. It is known that the radiation apparatus breaks down when a train arrives in Zagreb, which means it has to return home again and some next time it comes which is quite demanding and difficult for someone who is so sick. So what do you do in that case?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97175	Thank you. Dear Representative Petyr. This is an initiative by the Association “We’re not alone” related to free taxi transport which was supposed to be a single pilot project. I would say that if we look at the past 10 years regardless of which political option was in power in the Republic, the shifts in better exist, but if you look from a narrow professional perspective then you can't be satisfied or if you look again from a personal perspective you have someone close to you who suffers from some malignant disease again you can't be satisfied. So, this very high-quality pilot project I think deserves absolute respect by HZZO insurance companies to ensure free transport for both women and men who suffer from malignancies because it would be a much higher cost if we look only economically if that person is left out of radiation, not to mention fatalities but to pay for free transportation to persons. In particular, therapeutic centers can be reached from remote centers. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97176	The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97177	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, the European Commission is in the 2020-2020 Strategy for Gender Equality. points out the slowness in the progress of all Member States since gender equality has not yet been achieved. The same is true of the fact that too many people today violate the principle of gender equality by speaking sexist hate and by preventing measures against birth stereotypes. The Council of Europe shares almost the same opinion and in its Gender Equality Strategy for 2018-2023. As a strategic goal, they singled out the prevention and fight against gender stereotypes and sexism and pointed out that birth stereotypes pose a serious obstacle to achieving real gender equality and encourage gender discrimination. With this in mind my question to you, what should you do in order to make progress and achieve gender equality in this case equality of women from here on out your perspective, the perspective of men?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97178	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97179	So here as a man, I can say that women are not equal in the Republic of Croatia, so they are neither European nor global. My colleague Kekin mentioned that for the first time in history she was now elected to the head of the KBC SV. A ghost of a great scientist. I wish her a lot of success, it won't be easy for her to run the KBC of St. Ghost, it's professor. Anamarija Šimundić. I also come from the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, owned by the City of Zagreb and the Vrapce Psychology Clinic since 1879. And for the first time, she's been headed by a woman for two years. And what is also very important in these very challenging and demanding times, our hospital has positively done business under the leadership of the current administration, which is also very important. So there's a lot of examples, this is just one example where we see that in certain professions where women are in most when they're talking about driving positions, then they're in a large minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97180	Followed by an individual debate by the respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97181	.../Conversation included later./... The principle of gender equality is the basis of modern democratic states, so gender equality is included in the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the EU. In front of us today is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2020. The report shows that its content has been clarified in areas, further from the report it is apparent that the Ombudsman worked on 1993 cases of which 515 were complaints for protection against discrimination. The lawyer is the holder or participated in six EU-funded projects, we know for the report that it was created in a situation burdened with covid, as well as the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb. But with new work habits and technology, we can see that the D.A. and her team did it well and correctly. 160 warnings were issued, 166 recommendations, 19 proposals, and in 91% of cases they were respected. Although we still have a lot of work to do in this area, however, some shifts have been made, so we see that six new shelters have been established, and now in all counties we have a shelter for victims of violence, birth benefits have been increased, and as a newspaper, pension benefits have been introduced in six months for each child, the number of women employed in police and military service has been increased, which is certainly commendable. We certainly need to work on our fathers' leave of 10 to 30 days which we see our fathers using less than in other EU countries. In this meeting of HS there are still a number of women, we know that this is not satisfactory here some colleagues before me have discussed it too. The number is still higher than any previous call. But what I see in some political engagement always bothers me, which is whenever it's a panel, whenever I talk to the media, their question would be, what's the role of women in politics. Well, I don't know if there's a dear colleague, or if we have two male colleagues, if he's ever asked men that question. What is the role of men in politics? I think we live in a world where it's long since been abandoned by some heavy division. Of course, I still said in my presentation to us a lot of work to achieve this equality, but today women are at the head of big companies, successful companies, corporations yet, and I repeat not enough. They are headed by states, parliaments, governments, commissioners, mayors, mayors, of course we all have to work together to make this number bigger. Certainly in order to live in a better, more orderly and quality society, we should certainly have more women in political positions. I am sure that slowly, but surely women with their qualities, knowledge and experience but, of course, with the legislative framework, the help of course and this commission, they deserve and should surely find their greater, greater pain in that. Men can learn a lot from us women, these are seriousness, studio intensity, patience, support for all tasks, perseverance and perseverance. So I think that here's a dear colleague and a colleague so we shouldn't talk about some colleagues here from another political option that they're irrelevant, that they're secondary, yes, but I don't think we should talk to each other here because today we're talking about some equality, and today we're insulting this one to each other because we're coming from another political option. I'll look back on one good saying by Sister Williams, the success of every woman should be an inspiration for another. We're the strongest when we cheer for each other, but here we are today from these discussions I couldn't see it. I certainly expect that when we discuss the next report for '21. But certainly for '22. and every year next have much better indicators, but we are here to fight together for greater representation and equality of women, of course by means of the legislative framework, but of course also by our own qualities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97182	We have a few replicas. First is the honourable representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Maximchuk, I agree with you that we lack a culture of dialogue and understanding, so when we disagree with the other side. I think that if we follow up on yearly counseling reports, so does the lawyers for gender equality so that the shifts can be seen. In some ways, I would say that NGOs are most often the leaders of some good initiatives and those who exert certain pressure on the resolution ministries. I'm interested in how it is in the area of Brod-Posavina County and what your experiences with NGOs dealing with this problem, if you can comment on it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97184	Thank you very much, dear fellow, certainly this one that in Brod-Posavina County here I can say in this meeting of the County Assembly the number of women in the county assembly 40% that this legal part has been achieved, but here is some progress. The Committee for Gender Equality in Brod-Posavina County has been working for many years and is working with the fact that here may be a little bit in this Covid crisis that his work has stalled, but certainly this one that the civil sector, the civil society are there to make sure they give their recommendations and they are a good input to balance here and to be on the right path that this sub-represented part of women still brought to at least that legal border although he should be an equal woman is still a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97185	The next replica is the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97186	Thank you. Well, you mentioned exactly the question they often ask me, which I also endlessly get on my nerves. What is the role of women in politics as if it were a particularly different role than men's roles. And that's where I fully understand your frustration. However, the fact is that women in politics in Croatia are still a large minority, especially looking at this parliament. Most of us are here in the assembly only when it's debated about women, any social issues, and then our male colleagues are gone. I think this is the subject we're supposed to be on, I'm talking to all of our male colleagues. However, when you look at actually candidate lists, when you look at the composition of party and party leadership, when you look at and ultimately, and this result in parliament is still a large majority of political parties not putting women in pregnant places on candidate lists in order to ultimately have a much better balance here in the assembly. How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97187	Thank you very much for asking, so here's the part where I can say that in one good part I agree with you. Progress certainly exists. I didn't say that we are satisfied with this figure that is currently in parliament, but it is indeed a shift from all the previous calls. As for the list and the place and the number of women, I'm certainly not a supporter of the odds, but certainly until we even that number I'm going to be real for those quotas, I think that 40% is the minimum that every decent democratic country should have a sub-represented sex, and in us, it's women.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97188	The next replica is the respected Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97189	Now I'm inspired by Sandra, we're here to talk about women in minorities and to stay until the end sometimes up to 2.3 a night, then most of this assembly looks like this overcrowded woman and then we see our domination. But my question to you goes the other way. You mentioned I was opening six new shelters. In fact, we now have the coverage of the one we require among other things and the accession of the Istanbul Convention, or ratification of the same that in each county we must have at least one shelter for women victims of violence. However, the issue that remains open is the sustainability of shelters and existing and emerging ones above all when we talk about funding if we know that the last six have been opened in a way that has been directed towards EU funds, and that the current functioning of so far's shelters depended on the goodwill of the civil sector and the unit of local administration or self-government. And what you think is whether you should change that system so that the state also enters this kind of tripartite cooperation where some kind of security and survival would be guaranteed in a financial sense in a shelter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97190	Thank you. Dear colleagues in Brod-Posavina County shelter has existed for many years. 33, 33, 33% is funded, and so far that's solid. I'm not saying that sometimes in that financial area they lack funds. I'm certainly in favour of the state as well as units of local and regional self-government involving as much as possible. And here I'm glad that at least we respected that legal quota so that at least now we have a shelter in all our counties. Of course, I'd be happier if those places in the shelters were empty. Unfortunately, they are full and here in some counties we may even have fewer places. But here I am sure that everyone in their ability to participate financially in the financing of these shelters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97191	The next replica honours Jurič-Martinchev Branka.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97192	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. So I would refer to this question as what the role of women in politics is like to ask what the role of the brochure on the lapel is. I mean, in 2005, I became mayor of Vodice. The first years before every Easter, every Christmas, they asked me what I was going to cook, which I was going to bake. They were with me with cameras in the market, they were in the kitchen, they were never with my male colleagues. I was wearing fashion shows for humanitarian purposes, playing football games with my male colleagues even though I have to tell you, I had all fives at school, I only had a three-way gym, so you know how hard it was for me. So it seems to me that even now we have a little positive shift, because now that we have new fashion editions of politicians, then we have one seven, eight women and one male colleague. Well, then when we have what we have, we've checked what MPs do when they don't work, then we can find a few men. So there's a shift, but there's a minimal one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97193	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Since women in society have more than men, there may be more of us in politics, so these things would not happen but in all other segments of society. I believe that we would then live in a better and more orderly society with safer legal proposals, but unfortunately so. That is why the objective presence of the media in everyday life is extremely important, because they are the ones who create it for the good part. And here I am sometimes a little sad when we're only being commented on by our looks, by our way of dressing. But here we are to change all of this for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97194	The following is an individual debate with respect to Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97195	Thank you. So here I will look at an individual aspect of the report that we may not have talked about much, which is the part about the equality of LGBT persons and where it is highlighted and where the data from the EU Agency's research on fundamental rights of the Agency titled "Long way to go LGBT and Quality. It shows that this research shows that discrimination between gender and gender minorities remains a very pronounced social problem throughout the EU. According to these results, 47% of respondents in the Republic of Croatia have almost never openly declared their sexual orientation, and within the countries covered by the survey, the Republic of Croatia is the country with the highest percentage of students and pupils who hide their gender and gender minorities, as many as 51%. We also belong to a group of several countries where more than 40% of respondents have shown that they avoid certain locations and go to certain places because of fear for their own life, work and potential violence they experience or potentially can experience precisely because they belong to gender and gender minorities. In the context of the research conducted by Zagreb Pride on a sample of 767 members of gender and gender minorities, 6 out of 10 of them showed that there was an experience of verbal or other kind of violence due to their sexual commitment, with the defects of 10% of them reported to the police or other competent authorities mainly because of the lack of trust that the investigation would actually result, have some result and, of course, also because of the stigmatisation. The report also stresses that events that point to exclusion and intolerance towards gender and gender minorities have been reported in this period. You remember that just in 2020, in the area of Maksimir in Zagreb, so a man of homosexual orientation, the perpetrators spilled unconfirmed fluid and set fire to it, causing serious bodily injuries. At international level, we see that the first European Equality Strategy was adopted by LGBT IQ persons from 2020 to 2025, which also contains some very concrete measures to combat discrimination against the population. However, Croatia has therefore not opened a dialogue on the adoption of such a strategy. There is also a lack of systematic implementation of the National Anti-discrimination Plan for 2017-2022 and we have not, therefore, had no new action plan in that period, then it is difficult to expect, of course, that we will have a strategy to actually reduce discrimination against gender and sexual minorities. That hate speech and hate crimes against lesbians, gays, bisexual, transgender, interspersive and quarr people in recent years have been widely known and very easily classified and it is only by superficial monitoring of social networks and commentators of articles on portals. So, you will see and do a general survey on Internet discrimination, hate speech on the Internet, and so is hatred against gender and sex minorities at the very top, with the discrimination of certain ethnic groups of Roma, members of the Serb national minority, etc.. In a recently published report for 2020 on the human rights of LGBTQ persons of ILGE, therefore, the organisation at international European level has put the emphasis precisely on the widespread homophobic transphobic hate speech on social networks, especially in Central and Eastern European countries, including Croatia. At the same time, it is warned that not only individuals are responsible but also authorities and persons at the position of power used by LGBT as a scapegoat or very often use it for certain populist purposes and exhibiting certain hatred or contempt for that population, trying to collect political points among those who actually consider this population less valuable. In this field we have not done enough, and I want to emphasise how important it is that civil education is introduced into several of our cities now into primary and secondary schools because the only key to preventing this kind of behavior is education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97196	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97197	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and dear colleagues, thank you for staying with us until the end on this subject as everyone and most think that she is exclusively a woman. We can see that almost all clubs have supported this report, that it is considered comprehensive and quality, as well as the work of the attorney general. We're almost all in agreement here. On the other topics that we have heard today about the draft laws on amendments to the law on the possibility of fostering same-sex communities, the termination of pregnancy, there have been discussions on content, the Prime Minister's congratulations for International Women's Day, the terms of debate on this point and so on. There are, of course, different opinions. However, in its report, the Ombudsman warns of a number of problems and its comments and suggestions should be considered and seen what we can do, and the government has also shown itself about this report. We had in addition to this report the government's obvious. That was also in June 2021. Whoever was following this subject well could see that there has been a shift since then. I would now return to the 2020 work report itself. It is the year of the pandemic disease covida-19 when we had a strong earthquake in Zagreb. This imposes new ways of working and disabling planned activities. However, data suggest that the consequences of the labour market epidemic have been significantly more affected by women. According to an analysis of the entry into the HZZ records, 37% of women remained outside the working relationship during the period compared to men. In particular, difficulties during the period of introduction of a series of restrictions related to a number of aspects of social life have arisen in the area of harmonisation of professional and family life. This situation must not become an excuse for ignoring or marginalising social problems related to gender equality, and primarily gender-based violence, as just a crisis period could be a fertile ground for their deepening and expansion. The position of women in Croatian society has made progress, but we continue to face the inequality of women and men, primarily in the labour market, as well as numerous discriminations. The Ombudsman sent 166 recommendations, 160 warnings, 19 proposals, and they were respected in a high 91.2% of cases. Congratulations to the defense attorney and the team, and of course to all those who have accepted these recommendations and warnings. The lawyer also points out that the political will to approach demographic politics systematically and versatilely has been strongly expressed in Croatia in recent years. It also states in its report that in the last 2nd year. Police are investing in the sensitisation and education of police officers in order to identify and properly qualify certain behaviours through criminal law instead of a criminal legal reaction. It also points out that the greatest progress in the process of domestic violence and violence among close people has been made by the police again. However, as long as we have gender-founded violence especially when we talk about the year in which 14 women were killed and over 50% by men with whom they were in intimate relationships, we must all work together even more and more strongly. The Advocate General shall also determine the non-compliance with the Regulation on the status and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia with the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. However, there has also been changes from the name of the Regulation to the new law which entered into force from 1 January 2021. I would also, given that there was very little time left, refer to this promotion of gender equality where the prosecutor issued 162 warnings to political parties, I would like my party to respect the law and 40% of the quota, however, it should be said that the HDZ gave and had the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Vice-President of the European Commission, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Member of the European Court of Auditors and the Executive Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97198	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97199	Thank you very much. Here, in the final word itself, I will repeat once again that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will accept or support the Ombudsman's report on gender equality for 2020. By the time we have finished our presentation with this representation, I must admit that I am proud of my party because for the first time we are in these parliamentary elections held in 2020. We had not only an even representation of women and men but we applied the ZIP system, so even after this breakup of the club we got evenly, now I'm going to be a little sarcastic, divide. We entered the assembly means half women, half men, and now that we're divided into two clubs, we're even, so it's in one club and another it's balanced. So as far as that goes, we don't have a problem. I hope that in the next election cycle we will not only respect the legal obligation on 40% representation, the sub-represented sex on the lists, but we will understand the spirit of the law in fact that it is not important to satisfy the quota in the lower part of the list and satisfy the law, although some days they are willing to pay more penalties than to respect the law rather than to allow that spirit of the law to be spilled into the constituencies, even if 40% is not enough. If we see that the assembly should be a picture and an opportunity or a representative's home in some way a copy of Croatian society, then, according to that logic, we should be much more than 40%, but we will not be immodest now. I believe that from this entire debate today, a few conclusions should be drawn from the recommendations mentioned and in the report which I will apostrophy and underline on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. It is extremely important that the guidelines of the national legislative framework for equal salaries and pensions in the Republic of Croatia, together with their team, give recommendations for the creation of a national legislative framework on possible standards, positive measures and actions to achieve gender equality on the labour market and in the pension system, with the aim of reducing the risk of women being respected in the law, the new law that will come before us from the parliamentary representatives of the Labour Act, as much as is actually going to hit this inflation by now and even more in the coming period by the very most vulnerable and the poorest part of the Croatian population and the people at risk of poverty that in Croatia are at this moment 900,000 people living at risk of poverty and 700,000 people living in poverty, of whom we have seen from these analyses, are primarily women. And that is why it is important that, through the new labour market legislative framework or the protection of workers, it is the first step towards preventing women from entering the risk of poverty, but it is also not enough, but we will have to do something to remove this segregation on the labour market and to in some way abandon this practice that women are in a wave of employment in lower paid activities or sectors. Secondly, what we think is that we need to take care of to provide care for women's reproductive health, which we see that it was particularly endangered in 2020, not only through the non-ensuring of gynological teams, which we have a problem with regardless of whether we have an earthquake, covid or not, but also taking care of another segment, which is the mental health of the population. Not only women, but I also apostrophe especially women, because according to two studies carried out, one by the Institute of Social Research on students and pupils of primary and secondary schools after the pandemic and earthquakes, we see that it is a serious, serious not only educational but also public health problem, but also a political and social problem in the coming period will be a mental health disorder, and where we see that it is actually under greater pressure from anxiety, stress and other diseases that have been exposed to girls and girls. What is also important is that we do not give up recommendations for the introduction of civil education and education and education for civil society, but also for the health education that we see starting next school year in Rijeka in a slightly stronger form than is foreseen at national level. And in conclusion, we will support this report and I hope that in the next report we will have more points than this report where we can say that we have achieved visible or more significant steps all together. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97200	The next debate is on behalf of Centre and GLAS's representative, Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97201	The president, colleagues and colleagues. If we were to point out the key messages and the key problems that arise or can be read from this report, then we could say about this, the low rate of female labour, the high degree of economic dependence of women on family members, the imbalance between business and private life which negatively affects employment, the unfair division of gender roles since women are expected to take care of the family at the expense of their professional careers, the insufficient measures involving women in the labour market, poor and inadequate public services and services of parents in raising families, inadequate treatment of competent authorities and protection in the event of sexual harassment and violence, etc., more than anything we could read in several previous reports. And all of this proves in support of Croatia leading an unconsistent policy in relation to the treatment of women in family, social, economic and political life. And I'm going to say that it doesn't come out and it doesn't all start from politics, through politics it just reflects all of this, starts with rhetoric. So, as this rhetoric seems to result from the fact that we had to thank a male representative who remained present for this debate. So smart enough to draw a conclusion. As long as traditional values are dominant and very often in public discourse are imposed as the only acceptable world-wide framework our statistics and attitude and treatment towards women will not be better. In conclusion, I'm just going to repeat that I expect the next attorney's report to be just as good as this. I do not question this in any way, but I hope that the Croatian Parliament will find a way to amend the law not as it was done in the case of Mrs Klaric, so that the mandate of the current Ombudsman is compromised but simply to introduce some of the obligations of the work of the competent resolution bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the obligation on the part of the Ministry and us from the Croatian Parliament to take action in good time and what is in their jurisdiction, resulting from such reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97202	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, respected Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97203	If we want men to participate in the discussion of the Report on Gender Equality, then we need to have a report on gender equality that will be addressed and the problems their sex encounters to the extent that these problems are represented in relation to the other sex. This report does not meet that purpose, it is fully except for one small part, the only part relating to the issue of parental care, and even that problematizing examples that show that men have, at the end of the day, raised complaints about the male sex. Everything else is dedicated to disfellowshipping women. Therefore, we cannot call out calm souls to men who are not present here right now and expect this practice to change in the future. It should change, but it will only change when we bridge the gap between gender and gender equality that we really see as a common task in which women will also fight for male rights and men to fight for women's rights. In the end, the struggle in which we will achieve what is our common social goal, which is a more just society in general that benefits both sexes. In view of the above, due to the fact that according to the legal rules, this report on gender equality does not fulfil its purpose, the Most Representatives Club will not support the report. I'm going to point out once again in summary what are the key arguments we're not going to support this report for. The first, which I have referred to and for the previous report, however, the practice remained the same, and in this issue is the financial part of the report, which summarises very smut on one page and the principle of 5 financed activities from which nothing concrete can be learned about how budgets are spent. Not only this, but every report that comes before the Croatian Parliament, and it is not a matter of security and the state secret should contain as detailed a financial report as possible to ensure that the spending of funds paid to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is fully transparent. This is like such an understatement, and in that space I expect improvement in the next report. The second question is whether we were dealing with this report really by law, which is the equality of both sexes. On concrete examples of what this report has put emphasis on and problematized, not some arbitrary areas of life that I would have chosen on my own as an important one, I have made arguments that this report does not meet its purpose. When we talk about victims of human trafficking, addictions, particularly alcohol addiction, and international protection seekers in most cases, it is men who have difficulties in these areas, but the report contains recommendations exclusively for women. Of the 83 specific cases described in this report, despite the fact that a quarter of those who have filed complaints or complaints addressed by the Ombudsman are only about 5 concrete examples in the report of the men’s complaints. I'll remind you one more time why this treatment of men is very important for women. Apart from being part of the same society and all of us touching each other, the talk about women exclusively as victims of affirmation their sex stereotyped role and reproduced the patriarchal pattern of behavior in which it was generally accepted as a step to normal that a woman could only be a victim and nothing else, and that men were born violent. And this is a dreary hidden and therefore a permanent face of the patriarch that enables its reproduction or the existence of all its negative characteristics. Finally, the way the point is placed on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament in June, and after the parliamentary debate completely intransparently removed, I find it inadmissible and inadmissible and undemocracy and intervention in the work of this assembly. And that's another reason why this can't be supported. The struggle for gender equality, including here emphasising this male issue, is not putting me in the role of a male rights appologist, but the struggle for gender equality is not and must not be or become a war of sex. It is about the fight to bring gender closer together by declaring war against violence and all other anomalies that hinder the achievement of a fairer society as a whole, and we can only achieve this if we fight for gender equality truly We take it as a struggle for equality between both sexes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97204	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97205	The Green-Left bloc club will support this report for reasons of its width and for reasons of completeness of the data it contains, and especially for the reasons we have to admit, and you, as chairman of the Committee of Col. Rasdic, could see that this office is working with a budget that would otherwise not be sufficient for two people in a state agency to do approximately nothing and with that budget this office works in the field, works with institutions, works directly with victims, works on legislative amendments proposals, works on transposition of the practice of the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights in Croatian legislation, etc. And it all covers with a budget that has very few people, with very few people, so that's, I think here I have to say the vast majority of NGOs that do, and even locals have a bigger annual budget and more people, and it should be kept in mind when assessing and assessing the work of the attorney's office for gender equality. I would like to point out one more thing here, so I absolutely agree that women should not be presented as victims, nor do I feel that this is the case in this report and that this victimization is actually perpetuating certain patriarchal patterns, but we cannot not report data that indicate that women are almost in all areas of life being discriminated against or are not equal, and certainly do not have equal outcomes in relation to men almost in all areas of life. And one of the key causes, and I've dealt with this for a long time is according to my, my view, because in the fundamental principle of economic inequality between men and women, but it's also in institutional discrimination that is perceived. However, leaving out of any form of violence or discrimination or institutional violence often depends on your economic position. I'm not saying that even those who have a good economic position don't live in violence, but it's a lot easier to get out of a bully's house and go somewhere with kids if you can afford it. If you are economically dependent on him, if you are not employed, if, if you are on, on social, on, on social compensation, you are forever convicted or sentenced to stay with a bully. I was talking the other day, just on Women's Day about the importance of ownership of resources, owned by resources, especially real estate, we still have great proportions and great inequality, and that's the key thing. Look only at the question of women living in rural areas, the vast majority of them living in the homes of their husbands who do not even refer to them but to their parents and never become owners or co-owners. In a situation where you don't have any property that's your perspective if you leave the house of a bully, right? I also wanted to say that, as a political option at first, we required ourselves, but also others to increase the participation of women in decision-making bodies, that we put women on candidate lists and that we put them in transition places, that we did lists in the ZIP model, and that in the end we just got a lawsuit from the DORH and we're running a dispute in Osijek because we had too many women on the list, no matter what the outcome of that is that there are 23% of women in the City Council of Osijek, so far below what is prescribed, we're going to potentially pay 40,000 kuna because we had too many sub-represented sex on the list. So much for the absurdities of our legislation, our politics, and the colour and interpretation of the courts and the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u97206	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a Law on the Commissing of Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. No. 251. The session was interrupted at 16.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82895	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:05 A.M.]] The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. Art. The 227 Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, that is, the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. Rule 205. How appropriate. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been determined that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 10th session. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82896	I have an objection to the addition of the agenda, so the new Law on a referendum that is contrary to the good practice of the Venice Commission when it comes to the referendum and what you have proposed is actually an attempt to disable the referendum of citizens. under the extraordinary circumstances that you have prescribed. [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82897	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, So what you're doing right now is against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82898	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82899	Because I asked you if there were any objections. There were no written objections, so you didn't respond. You're now entering the contents of what's a bill, we can't do that now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82901	No, no, no, it's not content...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82902	Then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82903	So, we have now received a new proposal of the Law on Referendum which, in the transitional and final provisions, makes it impossible to apply to those referendums that are scheduled, but allows it to apply to the referendum initiatives for which the signatures have been collected, and you are practically the new Law on Referendum, which prevents citizens from making a referendum statement in exceptional circumstances, and we have collected signatures for abolishing the Staff. You can practically disable the referendum on the removal of headquarters means now by decision of the ruling. It's scandalous what you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u82904	My friend Grmoy, that's your interpretation, I don't think it's true, but that's not true at all. But it's not at all now. [[Grmoya attack: It's true.]] Okay. [[Grmoya attack: It's true.]] That's not the point at all now, so when it comes to the agenda, we'll discuss it, and you could have made a written complaint. So now we can't argue the way you're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83005	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Here, let me use the free speech. First, say something about politics. Somewhere I read, a smart man writes that politics is art and science, and that says roof and most important, and that's the whole recital. I know him, but I don't want him now. For me, politics is one thing and the other, politics and polemics, and I'm very fond of pliming especially with smart people, the smarter I prefer. But this time, I'm gonna make an exception, and then I'm gonna do something with the fools. Talked to by smart people, I'm supposed to be having sex with fools. I was primarily persuaded by Professor Jurcevic whom I apologized for not reading his excellent report yesterday, because I found it on the spot that it was more important to say something else than to read it. Zvonko Zubak writes to me and says: “A friend explains to me what you said yesterday, and some people didn’t understand you, and they didn’t understand a lot of people. ” Namely, I got more information from sources that Pracchin, that Prkachin was defending Dodik yesterday, so he defended the Republika Srpska. I wasn't defending anyone yesterday. I was the attacker yesterday. I used to play all kinds of sports in the attack, and I never played in defense. Yesterday I attacked Zeljko Komsic and whoever invented him, who designed him, who put him in charge of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do evil to the Croats, to do evil to other peoples, because this crazy politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina that he is the symbol is making us great evil. And why is it that the Squire supported by a criminal named Dodik asks me, and then I get two, three things that I'm proud of. Well, I also said this in the Croatian Parliament, that Serbs and Croats no longer have reason to fight if we have a head. We have one dispute, a Serbian Orthodox church that needs to be resolved, which should be managed, that scandalous treaty should be resolved by ruling, so it will give air and solution to the political problems in Montenegro. Well, I'm proud of the fact that I've told the war truth 10 times, that a captured Serb soldier only got a shower at my place once because I didn't get to react in time. The criminal Dodik says they are. I just yesterday said that whoever attacked Dodik today but today they threw it out, who today attacks Dodik is either a traitor or he's crazy or he's someone's mercenaries. They're attacking a criminal named Dodik because Dodik committed a major crime. When Croatian knight Željko Komsic and Croatian flower Djaferovic, when they wanted to corrupt the Croatian people, the Croatian state, as well as Europe, stopped the construction of the Pelješko Bridge and Milorad Dodik prevented them from doing so. Did I mention yesterday that it was the same as attacking the Hungarians in the 1990s and the first year I mentioned there the battle of 1097 on Petrovo Gora. However, this... Khuen Hedervary, who oppressed the Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone wise was to be found and to attack Khuen Hedervary at the time of Hungary's arms delivery to Croatia. Attack Milorad Dodik at the moment that Milorad Dodik defends the Croats, even though I and the Serbs had controversy when they said he was your man, he's your player, he stands for the third entity, he stands for the third because that way he defends the other entity, that we understand each other. But his opponents didn't want to write it down and write it down, and I'm going to say it again today. First, Putin said there was no talk about the possible spilling of riots from Ukraine into these areas, because Putin found himself in a completely lost situation. This once great political sympathy has also shown me at this more serious age that you must not fall in love with someone so quickly. The man who took the picture showing a toll on a horse, wrestling with a bear, driving super-sonic planes, etc. At the beginning of World War III, he sent two children that a normal man wouldn't let cross the road alone, he found himself in an unguarded grape. He's not at the end of his mind right now, moving anywhere. I repeat, Vukic and Dodik and Serbs have never been in such a difficult political situation in their history and there is no saying that they would cause a crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina is causing a Bosniak element, so it is known. It challenges the Bosniak element due to the madness of the International Community that has finally seen and that has finally begun to understand the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well, and that is why during these raised tensions we need to talk about it to screw them up, make them give the Croats election law and thus save Bosnia and Herzegovina and solve the problem both Croatian and Serbian and Bosniak Muslim people. Here's what I wanted to say and what I said yesterday was that some people didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83127	Following is the statement on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83128	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected by the public. Today I called for a free speech to draw attention to the statements by our defence ministers that went on the air sometime after, or during the press conference. Let us not forget that yesterday we talked almost all day about the security of the Republic of Croatia, about the security of our citizens because we are in NATO, because we are in the EU. Yesterday evening, our minister at RTL, about seven o'clock, gives a statement that we are 100% safe because NATO was washing us, and only a few hours later, there was an incident that took place. At the press conference today, our distinguished minister declares: First we learned about the incident after the aircraft crash. That was the first statement. Asking journalists if the homeland security system has been compromised because of this fall, he says there is no threat to the country's security system, because in just a few minutes we have identified which aircraft it is involved. So, in just a few minutes after the crash, we've identified what aircraft it is, and that's why the Homeland Security system isn't being compromised by our minister. It also states after that that the aircraft was escorted from the border and I'm asking myself a question of what we could do in seven minutes? So they followed her from the border. Is our radar only within range of the border and there's a wall? Don't we see across the border? Don't our radars recognize aircraft across the border? So that's another questionable statement. And after that, we were lucky that the aircraft didn't hit any buildings, which we really had luck with, and thank God there were no casualties. Now, based on these statements and based on his attitude, I'm asking myself if that's how it's gonna be in case the missiles fly. We'll follow them from the border because apparently our radars don't see across the border and then we'll run to the Capitol and pay for the Holy Mass, and we'll all pray together that they don't fall into the populated area, because we'll follow them, and where they fall. If they happen to fall, then as the minister said in his statement, we were lucky they didn't fall, and there we'll say we weren't lucky. Gentlemen, we can't talk like that, especially we can't talk like that from the position of a defence minister who's at some point and didn't even let the leading man of our army answer some questions, but he answered those questions. We must neither allow ourselves to be spoken here in this House any words that lead us both to error and to our people. If we have problems, and these problems have been warned by the President of the Republic that we have problems with anti-aircraft defence, then we need to act in the direction of solving these problems, especially when it comes to the security of our fellow citizens, when it comes to the security of our country. We can't, and we can't let ourselves think about whether we're lucky or not, when someone attacks us. And if that vessel flew as was said now in the last announcement that it flew about 1,000 miles, we wonder what all of NATO's forces were doing if they hadn't intercepted it, that they hadn't brought it down before. Why isn't it down there somewhere in the mountains where there's no settlements, where there's no living people? What are we talking about, what security are we talking about, what kind of statements are we talking about? This was embarrassing and it would be wiser not to go out with such statements in front of the Croatian public because there is panic, because there is uncertainty, and our people certainly cannot bear it with calmness, and this is how shaken we are by the crisis, we are shaken and at the beginning of the war in Ukraine, we are shaken by the new crisis that is coming to us, you see how much we are growing in prices and food and energy and now this approach by the minister. Therefore, I appeal to the ruling majority, please take action as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83350	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Nikola Grmoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83351	My colleagues and colleagues, this morning when the press asked me about this incident that took place in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, I didn't want to comment too much because I don't want to disturb the public in any way, and we still don't have all the information, but what we could hear right now and he was saying is that we actually have one contradictory statement from the Ministry of Defence where we still don't know if we noticed this, this drone was being followed and if it was followed why nothing was done. I saw a statement by my colleague Vidovic saying that there was really nothing to do about it, that if the facility were to go, that drone, I don't know how to blow up that they'd also be in danger of citizens. But I think this was a much greater danger, and it should not have happened at all that vessel came over the capital of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's the key question. And if it's true that what they're saying from the MORH is that this drone is being monitored whether we have at all the possibility of a reaction, or whether we have an anti-aircraft defense, an anti-aircraft defense in the medium and large range, we know that we don't have it, but we have this lower range of something we have, but for years nothing has been invested in it, so the real question is how functional it is. I call on the entire public, all political actors particularly political actors on the left to finally understand that investing in Croatia's armed forces and anti-aircraft defence is not therefore a question of militarisation of society, calling for war conflicts. My colleague, Whitey, in my injury to the Rules of Procedure, says I'm calling for war, why I'm not going to Ukraine. So just investing in our anti-aircraft defense, in our Armed Forces, investing in security to avoid possible armed conflicts and to keep Croatian citizens safe. No serious state that holds on to itself ignores that aspect. And stop with the false moral dilemma of kindergarten or the army. And kindergartens and armies. Let's remember here those ridiculous discussions how many kindergartens could be made for certain funds invested in the Croatian Army. So get serious at last. So, it is a message to all political actors and messages to the Croatian public, Croatia must have kindergartens for our children, but Croatia must have armed forces to keep our children in kindergarten safe, but to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are safe. So it's a responsible policy, it's a sovereign policy, it's a sovereign policy. Croatia is a NATO member, but Croatia should also invest in its Armed Forces. And in fact, everything I've been saying all this time is being proved correct. So, when we warned NATO that the government couldn't deal with Ukraine, because we won't solve Russian aggression on Ukraine. We can help humanitarianly, we've even helped with weapons, but we need to take care of our problems, we need to see how safe we are in view of the environment. How can we at this point in government have ministers who are under investigation? And they're ruling tolerating it, but it's also tolerated by the left opposition who doesn't want to sign off on the recall of ministers who are under investigation. What's the threat to national security? And why can the SDP and we assist the ruling in that? It's a real question that I still can't find an adequate and logical answer to. So, what MOST will insist on is solving the internal problems of the state, the faster the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb and Banovina, so the problem of rising energy prices. I urgently appeal to the ruling additional reduction of excise duty on fuel, as soon because of this freezing policy we may also have a shortage of fuel. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83352	We're moving on with the agenda. Following is the statement on behalf of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83514	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this environment where we are safe, the topic I'm going to talk about will not bring much attention to the Croatian public, but it will mean a lot to those on behalf of whom I will speak for this speaker HS as one of them. Cultural amateurism and immaterial cultural heritage are a great wealth of every nation, and I think it's something that we have to be proud of and proud of, but we also have to take care of it. The demographic situation in which we are located, the pandemic that has hit us and which has affected us in these past 2 years, the earthquake in Petrinja and the earthquake in Zagreb must have contributed significantly to what we used to be proud of today not looking very good. The guardians of tradition and culture would say with the institutions of the state the first defender of defence, it is us, it is Croatia without folklore, without people who rise to their tradition and culture would say that there is no, there is no state. We can be part of any association, but if we don't bring with us what we've acquired for centuries, I'm afraid we're becoming part of the global world, then that's not what we want. A series of problems have been encountered by all these people who deal with the immaterial cultural heritage and cultural artistic societies and the time has come for us to talk about it from this pay phone HS, but not just to talk about it but to act. I'm going to say that people who act high-ranking when it comes to world folklore have given the initiative, and the Ministry of Culture and Minister Obuljen has accepted that finally this, we try to solve this problem institutionally, of course, through the Ministry of Culture. One of the things that certainly worries all amateurs is the unresolved question of their space, their adequate action, the bad Law of Associations that drives them to something that they can't practically do in theory, not in practice. There is no institution or institutional approach to training music and folklore leaders and a number of other issues that plague these amateurs. I will say that the Croatian section of CIOFF in Croatia next year will host the CIOFF World Congress where representatives of 100 world countries will come to our beautiful Croatia to try to solve some of the burning problems here together with our section. It's not easy and it's not easy, but I don't think it's ever a bad time to go once. Of course there is no help from local and regional self-government, this issue absolutely cannot be solved. But to solve a question at all is an important first step, and I think that we have taken the first step, the dialogue that we have set up with the Ministry of Culture can certainly be this ray of light either at the beginning or at the end of the tunnel quite no matter. But I want to send a clear message to all those valuable amateurs who, without compensation, give up their time only in the protection of what is important to us all, and with what we all love in some moments, which is original, that is what each, every part of our beautiful country carries not only in our heart but it is written down and written down. So I want to send them a strong message that especially we who come as parliamentary representatives from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, who is the true icaban of all that I'm talking about. They have support in us, we'll be there for them, but not just verbally, not only to spend 3 or 5 minutes on the HS speaker, but to try these structural problems that have accumulated in the last 30, maybe 40 years. to try to solve in the time ahead. However, something happens, and here is the organization of the Croatian section of CIOFF in Croatia, I want a good organization of the CIOFF World Congress to be held in November 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83700	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] Let's take a stand. First distinguished representative, Rose Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83701	Today I want to talk about the life of women in the country with a special emphasis on those women who work on family farms. Their role in the preservation of a traditional family in public space is said very little. At the same time, a woman in her economy plays a role as a housewife, mother, educator, nurse, worker, physical worker, gardener, cook, manager, accountant, economist, etc. Society has given her a series of roles she must master without the possibility of objecting to. Her work must be done immaculately. How aware are we of the way in which women have to live who have to come in one day? Did we reward her for that, or as a community, we completely forgot about that woman. How did we protect her? Who's in it anyway? It is true that women's work has no end and that their work is rarely invisible, but that they can never achieve their full social or pension rights for all those things that should be admitted to be carried daily by families on their shoulders, but also by the entire rural space with their work and contribution to agriculture. I note that as much as 35% of farm work is done by women, and more than 70% of these women are not paid for these jobs because in some ways society but also families simply expect it from them. There are strong and active women, economic, political and socially active who reflect on life culture and tradition in their rural areas. However, it is important to note that there is no research in Croatia on the needs of rural women to help support them. When it comes to rural areas in the Republic of Croatia with special emphasis on rural data space in general on life, status and the role of women unfortunately is very few or none at all. Fast and numerous both transition, social and economic changes, as well as changes that have caused unfortunately the Homeland War in rural areas, particularly in rural areas, are being maintained through changes, for example, in the education of women, in the employment and promotion of entrepreneurship, in the use of agricultural loans from EU funds. Then through political participation of women, and the right to health care, the right to legal protection of women in all rural areas of Croatia. Recently in the Croatian Parliament, we adopted the Agriculture Strategy until 2030. Only one segment of the introductory section mentions women in the following sentences. This strategy, within the framework of agricultural policy measures, contributes to the objectives of reducing gender inequality in rural areas. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that Croatia is, by way of representation, women in the management positions in agriculture in the upper half of the Member States' rankings, and that it achieves significantly more favourable indicators than most so-called. the old Member States. But the real situation is different, and we don't have enough statistics on it. This requires that we start dealing with as many other matters as women's equality and ways of protecting women and all that belongs to them. In public, we won't hear a woman from the O.P.G. complain that she's having a hard time. We didn't even hear her complain that she'd never, ever had a vacation. And if such a woman is quiet, we must not forget her. She doesn't ask for compassion but deserves our full respect. Let us not devalue her contribution to maintaining rural space and living in it. She's a pillar and we give her our support. Many of the laws we make in this tall body create their fates. The least we can do is honor her life story when she passed the law. Let's turn around. There are more and more empty houses in the rural area of Croatia. We have to ask ourselves whether the policies that led all the governments so far have bestowed on it, which they have. Of course they are, and I chose my wife on purpose today as the center of all future developments in the country. If we obey the woman who is the backbone of the survival of the Croatian village, we will stop the dying of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83739	Following is the statement of view on behalf of Representative Focus and independent representatives of the respected representative Veljko Katazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u83740	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will use today’s time at my disposal to say something about a subject that bothers me personally, but also hundreds of children and people who deal with karate. It's not the first time we've talked about the problem of the Croatian Karate Alliance, but I'm afraid it won't be the last in view of the situation in that organization that every little bit of information I get from an email as well as questions from karateists. I've been doing karate for many years and I've done it quite successfully, so I think I'm quite competent to talk about this topic, although unfortunately this is at least a lot more about how this alliance is managed and how money is spent. In Croatia, this wonderful martial arts sport deals with over 10,000 active trainers most children and young people under the age of 18. If we consider their parents who are closely related to this sport, we have nearly 30,000 of our citizens who care about this sport and its organizations working well. Unfortunately, there are more and more serious objections to the work of the Croatian Karate Alliance, i.e. their highest officials. People are also discouraged by the functioning of our competent institutions that need to worry about the legality and functioning of national alliances. According to the information I received, criminal charges were filed against the leading people of the Croatian Karate Alliance of Presidents, Secretary-General and Director of the Team. For some two years now, these criminal charges have reportedly been gathering dust in the drawers of our competent authorities. According to the information I have received, it is a matter of reasoned and serious criminal acts that I believe our competent authorities should prosecute. For example, the recent president of the alliance was charged with abuse of a girl aged 11 to 16 years. When it became known that I was in collaboration with several parliamentary committees, organized a table on the topic in the Croatian Parliament. As a result, the entire Croatian public was familiar with this terrible situation, and I must say that the people of the alliance, by their silence and inaction, supported the same behaviour of the president. The responsible in the Croatian Karate Alliance know about all these various criminal charges and are doing constant intimidation through mounted tight procedures against their illicit actions. They are used to blackmail, do not receive new clubs into the membership of the Croatian Karate Alliance or throw them out of membership and the like. All of this is based on the quality of the functioning of the National Union and the disruption of human relations between membership. I know karate is not conditionalally said great sport such as football, handball or basketball, but this is about children and I think institutions must start acting on the issue of the Croatian Karate Alliance. Now let's get back to the part about finance. I personally tried several times to obtain relevant information about how money is spent and I asked for it from both the Croatian Karate Alliance and the Croatian Olympic Committee. Unfortunately, all I was getting was either silence or very shrill documents showing only the basic income and expenditure account without any more detailed insight into what funds to which clubs, to which competitions and for what purposes are being spent. And if even a parliamentary representative and former karate representative cannot get the exact information, imagine how it is possible for an enthusiastic or simply interested observer. The very silence of the alliances and other relevant institutions raises doubts about how the Croatian Karate Alliance and the money it has at its disposal is managed. If not, I call on them to publicly deny me and publish a full account, i.e. give detailed insight into how public funds and funds collected from membership fees are spent. I must confess that I am truly and deeply shaken by such a situation in my favorite sport. I therefore ask and ask that our competent institutions act urgently under the law and return a smile to the face of small karateists and their parents. I am convinced that the competent Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the Croatian Olympic Committee and the State Attorney's Office will take all appropriate measures to stop what is currently going on I will also organise a thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on this subject not only for the sake of the situation in the Croatian Karate Alliance but also for the hope of preventing something similar from happening in other sports alliances, i.e. not promoting the behavior that we have [[Santer Invader: Time.]] currently in the Croatian Karate Alliance. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u89166	Report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Dark Horvat and the start of the stay of Dark Horvat's parliamentary mandate. The debate is closed, I am voting on the decision to suspend the term of office of representative Dark Horvat and to begin the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Darko Horvat. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For this point, the conclusion that anyone voted can, of course. ... So, what were you, a colleague of Kekin's throwing something away? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the decision to suspend the term of office of MP Darko Horvat and the start of the pension of Darko Horvat's parliamentary mandate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 96 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for and 19 against, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The MIP's report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Mate Frankovic, a representative in HS, concluded the debate. I am voting on the next decision "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor of the Association of Friends of the City of Dubrovnik for the offence of abuse of the positions of powers under Article. No. 291st century 2. Penal Code." Who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 108 MPs and deputies voted, 107 for and 1 abstentions, and the decision was taken as proposed by the MIP. The MIP's report on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Marin Miletic, a representative in HS, concluded the debate. I am voting on the next decision "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the approval for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against MP Marin Miletic is denied, at the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Elvis Duspara from Zagreb, who is headed before the Zagreb Municipal Criminal Court, business no. K-472/19 for the offence of the slander of art. 149.St. 1st and 2nd. Penal Code." Who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 102 votes were all for the decision, as proposed by the MIP. The MIP's report on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Dario Hrebak of MPs in HS has been concluded. I am voting on the next decision, "For the duration of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings at the request of the County Court in Sibenik is denied, business no. KZ-151/2020 v Dario Hrebak of the MPs in HS for appeal by private prosecutor Allen Kaminski and Minea d.o.o. from Bjelovar, invested in the first-degree judgment of the Municipal Court in Bjelovar, business number K-259/2018-24 of 12 March 2020. in the case under private suit for the offence of the slander of the art. 149.St. 1st and 2nd. Penal Code." Pardon me, damage to my colleague HRebak's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u89167	The Honorable President of HS. I don't know how you practically deny me my rights. So, I've reached a first-degree verdict proving my innocence so that right now you colleagues and colleagues would deny me my own right to prove my innocence to the end, and if you vote against me removing my immunity, I won't be able to prove my innocence in a second-degree procedure in court and, of course, remain a questionnaire over my name in public. So please remove my immunity. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Hrebak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u89168	My colleague Hrebak, please, so first there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, secondly this is your wish, your position, but now the MPs and MPs will vote and will do what they think is right, and I have no more of this we have already talked about many times. So we can vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 103 MPs and MPs voted, 98 for, 5 against, so the decision was taken as proposed by the MIP. The MIP's report on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoya of MPs in HS has been concluded. In accordance with the MIP proposal, I am voting on the next decision "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb is denied, business no. 15K-69/16-8 against MP Nikola Grumoje on private charges by private prosecutor Ranko Ostojić over the crime of slander from the article. 149th century 2. Penal Code." Who's in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 101 MPs and MPs voted, 100 for, 1 against, and a decision was taken as proposed by the MIP. Selection, appointments and resolutions. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the HS delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate has been concluded and I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 103 MPs and MPs, 101 for, 2 abstentions, have voted, so a decision has been taken as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Now we're gonna take a five-minute break. After that, he speaks freely and then we continue with the agenda that was during the morning. Thank you. I'll see you Wednesday! It's the 13th.08 o'clock. But we are now going to vote Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 231. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment, in accordance with Article. In 199 of the Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present, so I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? I see that it is not clear to some, when the government has an amendment, then I have to hold a debate about it, but only if most MPs agree on it, we vote on it. So, usual practice, nothing new. Contained, I'm sorry, I didn't ask who was abstention? And who's against it? 100 voted, 77 for, 1 abstention, 22 against, so we will hold a debate on the government's proposal for an amendment, so I would like the now respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Juru Martinovic, to explain the above-mentioned amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94896	Thank you, Mr. President. With respect to MPs and MPs, this amendment is thus the Government in Article 75, which adds a new paragraph 5 to Article 257. The bankruptcy law of the word "State's Attorney's Office" replaces the words "the competent county state attorney's office". Therefore, the amendment specifies and clarifies the article becomes more precise and clearer, but it is also in line with the Law on a litigation, litigation procedure where it is clearly stated that the County State Attorney's Office... Yeah. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94897	Then I'm opening a debate, is anyone picking up? If not, I'm closing the debate and I'm voting on the government's amendments. Who's in? You're State Secretary free to return to your post. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 98 MPs and MPs, 97 for, 1 abstentioned so that the amendment is accepted and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and representative Katarina Peovic. During the debate, the applicant accepted amendments to the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law. I would now like to ask the re-respected secretary of state to be shown about the other amendments submitted. Let's go in turn, the first is the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94898	Therefore, the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, which is proposed to delete part of the provision of Article 5(3) of the draft final draft law which provides that delivery to the Financial Agency is considered to have expired 8 days from the date on which it arrived in writing in a secure e-mail box.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94899	That amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94900	That amendment was accepted for the reason that a special channel of safe exchange of letters was established between the Financial Agency and the system of the Ministry of Justice and the administration. In bankruptcy and pre-departure proceedings in electronic form, which is different from the written exchange system by means of an e-communication system that is communicated with parties in the process and there is no electronic mailbox because it is a direct electronic communication between the two electronic systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94901	That amendment becomes an integral part of the law, so let's go to the amendment representatives of Katarina Peovic, they are 3, please Amendment number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94902	Amendment number 1 shall not be accepted on Article 39 of the final proposal for a law which is proposed in Article 66(7). The bankruptcy law, behind the word approval, changes the word "worker" to the words "worker's council". That amendment is not accepted because the current provision provides greater protection to workers than proposed by the amendment. Since each worker is guaranteed the right to decide independently on any changes to the labour contract and to allow other workers to participate in this process. If the proposed amendment was adopted, workers would lose all their right to co-determination with those employers where no working council was set up, and that is all those where there are fewer than 20 workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94903	Here's a statement from MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94904	What was intensities here to bring this into line means an article of the law with the directive on the restructuring of insolvency and the discharge of debt, and to specify that in the process it means the restructuring and modification of the organisation of work or contract of work, workers are consulted, which, of course, we welcome, that is, it is a good change, but it is undefined which workers. So you can ask the meaning of one worker on company restructuring and that one employee says he's satisfied with it, and 10 or 20 of them say he's not, you've satisfied the form. So it's incorrectly defined, it was either a working council or it had to be added in some way to specify which workers they were, but in any case, we welcome the fact that workers got into this law as well as those to be talked to, and here I am withdrawing the amendment so that we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94905	Thank you very much, then we won't vote. Before we move to Amendment number two, I'd like to ask my colleague Grumo, do it when it's not a vote, please. We're going to Amendment 2 now. Here's the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94906	Yes, Amendment No 2 to Article 254 shall not be accepted. The bankruptcy law which proposes that the provisions stipulating that the costs of determining the subject-matter and the costs of cashing out of the case are fixed in a flat-rate manner of 5 out of 5% of the consumption, so the amount of 5% is replaced by 15%. That was the amendment. That amendment is not accepted as the provision of Article 254 is. The bankruptcy law lays down the way in which the costs of determining the subject-matter of a distinction law are calculated, not the settlement of the labour market. So in the wrong place you'd say probably a good goal you tried to achieve, but it's simply not a substance that regulates this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94907	Here's a statement from my colleague, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94908	Yeah, I don't think this is about a mistake. So what the Dioki workers themselves are warning about, let's say, who have asked that this is exactly how to resolve the bankruptcy law because, to increase the scale of the funds that are at the very beginning of bankruptcy are certain meanings as the cost of cashing out of the 5 to 15 items would put workers in a better position to collect, which is in those situations where we had, here, as in Dina Dioki, means the owner of Robert Ježić, where to burden real estate in businesses with these distinct rights at banks and then workers can't be charged at all because they have nothing to charge from. But, well, I'll be a little cynical, so I'll say, I understand that you don't support it since you chose Ivan Paladin, a minister who in his past participated in such bankruptcy processes or fraud of workers where, at the low-building hydropower plant, the same thing was done, and he controlled it, so the machines were first separated from the company, then rented, and eventually the workers were sent into bankruptcy, the company in bankruptcy, the workers were left out of work and the workers didn't collect their claims until today. This is exactly what the workers of Dioki have warned that this is the article that, if we had changed that, we would have come into a situation if at first the workers had not been brought into that position, in the position that they could not actually be charged at all, which in many cases is the case. It's real here, I have to say, I insist on voting on this amendment because if we went to change the bankruptcy law, so if you think that's supposed to be put somewhere else, the first and most basic thing we should have done is change it in the bankruptcy law. There's been a lot of changes here, and it hasn't changed what's crucial, and that's exactly the directive that you've been modifying this bankruptcy law, its intensity for workers to be compensated in bankruptcy processes, that's not what you're saying. Changed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94909	We will now vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 109 MPs and MPs voted, 32 for, 77 against, the amendment did not get the required number of votes, so we move on to the 3rd and last amendment of MP Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94910	Amendment No. 3 per article. 83 draft final draft law which is proposed to be adopted in Article. 308 in the said section 5 of the bankruptcy law, the words “and workers” are added behind the word “small suppliers”. That amendment is not accepted because, on the one hand, a rule has been introduced in relation to the pre-departure procedure that the pre-departure procedure cannot affect workers' labour claims. Therefore, in order to succeed, to succeed, it is necessary for all workers' claims to be fully settled, and, on the other hand, in accordance with the provision of the Article. The 308th century 3 of the bankruptcy law, it is already prescribed that workers are placed in a special group in a bankruptcy plan, which makes their rights as secure as possible regarding the bankruptcy plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94911	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94912	As you might say, I'll hold you to the word that the workers are protected in the bankruptcy process. So here it is again to adapt to the insolvency restructuring directive which has just mentioned that during the preventive restructuring process or during the bankruptcy proceedings, the person puts emphasis on the protection of workers, therefore, in the protection of particularly vulnerable creditors, it is unclear why you dropped workers and placed small suppliers. Of course, it's a good thing you put in small suppliers, but they're workers of these vulnerable groups, let's just think of a Kamensky worker who only charged 15% of their claims. I insist here on voting on the amendment because I think it's not exactly what you said, that workers are protected by bankruptcy law, workers in most cases are not protected at all. Those who are protected are the bankruptcy managers who, as soon as they sit in their own company, begin to receive salaries and not small ones, even protected cities that charge communal compensation from those companies that are bankrupt. All before the worker means in this bankruptcy procedure and among the creditors are protected, the workers are really in the end. Not only could this change because this is, so to say one symbolic gesture to put among the protection of vulnerable creditors and workers, but the whole law should have been changed in a way that is exactly what it is, and it's completely unregulated and the workers have nothing to hope for at all, here now May 3rd is in trouble again, the big firms will get in trouble, and you haven't solved a hundred by bankruptcy laws to charge, and 52% of the companies are shutting down after 5 years means a lot of workers who are going to be in this situation, unfortunately none of it in this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u94913	We therefore vote on an amendment that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 110 MPs and MPs voted 33 for, 77 against, so the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 91 for, 13 abstentions and 16 against, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law was passed. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on consumer bankruptcy, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 232. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 122 MPs and MPs voted, 86 for, 28 abstentions and 8 were against, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96001	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club at this point. We heard just before justified comments about what happened in Zagreb last night, and I agree that we should be concerned, however, I would warn that we are not just at risk of a military nature. We have financial ones, and in that sense, I would like to appeal once again that this decision to introduce the euro is postponed for several reasons. Croatia is not ready for this, but the Eurozone itself is full of both problems and potential risks. Yesterday, interest rates on Italian bonds jumped 20% in one day. So, the prices of borrowing growth, the cost of borrowing rises, and inflation is so currently that there will be less and less interest in such bonds, and that will hit our country as well. It will be very difficult for Minister Maric to finance the deficit in the state budget, and Croatia takes the risks of other countries by entering the euro area. I will remind you, for the sake of saving Greece, the Slovak government fell because it did not want to participate. Today-to-morrow, if other members larger than Greece, such as Italy or others, fall into serious financial problems, Croatian taxpayers will have to save them too. Thus, this cost-censored benefit analysis that we have long heard in public does not really reflect the true state of affairs. Entering the euro area brings a lot of risks to our country, we are not ready, we have not spent what it takes for our economy to really benefit from that, and that is why the Homeland Movement will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96002	The apartment is approved. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96003	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I demand a break to further consult before voting on this law. In fact, we are prepared to support the Law in this reading in the hope that by the second reading, this will become a much more quality proposal. In fact, first of all, we think it's sad that no one in front of the CNB participated in the debate because there have been many questions raised here that the only measuring answers can give to the CNB. We are also not satisfied with the protection mechanisms provided for by this Act, or are not foreseen by this Law, which would amortise the additional inflationary impact on our citizens during the introduction of the new currency. For example, why did it give up the blacklists, so-called which are provided for by the Action Plan, the blacklist of thus retail chains which have irrevocably raised prices, which are not provided for in the Act although they exist in the action plan. They would appeal once again to the promoters because, in the debate, many doubts and suggestions have been raised, to really consider and respect the second reading, to put into the final draft of the law many of these doubts and proposals, precisely because they would ultimately have a quality legal proposal that would maximumly protect our citizens who have already been exposed to an inflationary blow due to the pandemic and the war in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-11-0.u96004	Stanka's been approved, but we'll keep working. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 MPs and MPs voted, 99 for, 8 abstentions and 11 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. You can, but just ask before so that our officers around the premises who aren't here can register it, but can. Always, if we don't have information, please check with clubs who will then know how anyone voted. So we came to the conclusion that it was proposed by the constituency bodies. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on food additives, flavours and food enzymes, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 180, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and MPs voted, 86 for, 30 abstentions and the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Food Adjudications, flavours and Food Enzymes was passed.
