ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83033	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. First, Slavons, Baranci and Srijemci were evicted from Croatia, and now they need to be deprived of their right to vote. This may be the best introduction to my exposure today. Namely, 14. January came out the first official census results that confirmed what many feared. Croatia experienced a demographic disaster, demographic cataclysm. A Bible flood in a demographic sense. As one of the few EU countries, we have lost 9.5% of the population in the last 10 years. What's even more tragic is that out of the 400 thousand people who today have fewer in the Republic of Croatia, 250 thousand live in Western European countries. When we take a closer look at the statistics, then we see that most of them have just been lost by Slavonian County. And what happened in the last 11 days since these official census results came out? One big nothing. Not of the ruling, nor of the majority of the opposition. In fact, I'm afraid that in a few months, the old folk in fashion will be again, eaten by a donkey wolf. Croatia will continue to be a state with 555 cities and municipalities, largely economically unsustainable, Croatia will continue to be a state with several thousand council members, Croatia will continue to be a state with 30 different agencies, state offices that often serve themselves. Croatia will continue to be a state that does not have a genuine demographic strategy for the development of society for the next 50 years. Croatia will continue to be a state that does not have a ministry of demographics and emigration because we are more out there than in Croatia. The only thing that has happened in the last 10 days, which is that the main culprits of this demographic cataclysm, which is HDZ and SDP, those who have ruled this Croatian state for the past 20 years, mention that election units should be changed by the next election, which means that those areas that are the most demographically devastation will have the least representatives in the future. So back to the beginning of my presentation, to Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. Namely, what are the main causes of eviction? The first, even in the time of the Homeland War, where, don't forget, 5 to 10% of the population was killed in every Croatian place. Also, remember that according to all statistics, 25% of citizens have never returned to their hearths in eastern Slavonia, Baranja and West Srijem. They remained mostly in other Croatian counties or Western European countries. Also, do not forget that the lowest standard of living and the lowest wage is right in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and that it was these areas that people left the most when the borders opened that we had become a full member of the EU. And right now, according to the SDP proposal, but according to the HDZ, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem will have the future of the least representative here at HS. So first we've driven people out of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, and now we're going to make it impossible for them to have their own representatives in HS and we're going to create even stronger centralization of the state. We don't mind that every vote in every constituency is equally valid, but gentlemen dearly allow all Croatian citizens to vote electronically no matter where they live, then the power ratio will be very different and then Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem will continue to represent their representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83090	Thank you, too. And finally, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will be the position of the Social Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And here's last week and this week's demographics were dominated. But as I used to say demographics are not just measures for newborns, demographics are not just birth permits, demographics and demographics are not something much wider and much wider images are needed to really see what we need to develop and how. Eastern Croatia, namely Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, is the most demographically bested region of Croatia. Also not only demographic but economic, social and almost all other ways. This is part of Croatia which is still predominantly relying on agriculture and the accompanying industry. And what happens in agriculture? Well, nothing good about a colleague and a colleague, unfortunately. Namely, the prices of mineral fertilisers, seeds, oil and protection products went to heaven, and when we say sky, I am not exaggerating because prices have doubled minimally, and in the case of some of the raw materials that I have listed have increased several times. What does that mean for agriculture specifically? This means that production inputs or costs are much higher. Especially when cattlemen are hit, which of course does not mean that the warlords are not, but in cattle farming is generally one of the shut-offs, which is not the case for warfare where it is more easily and more frequently restored. The cattlemen warn that their cost of production is about 30% higher than the price at which they sell their products, which is unsustainable, and here we are talking about last year, we haven't even gone right in the year, and the prices of raw materials are much higher. What does that mean in the end? Our farmers rata that few of them are probably not going to give up on production, but because of the price, they will use much less fertilisers, which will result in smaller yields, which will again result in a higher price of products on the market, which is particularly unsustainable for cattle farmers because cattleherds depend on war crops to feed cattle. And at the end of the day it will mean much higher prices for our citizens in the markets, and here we are primarily talking about food products, so foods without which we can't, which will further damage the bad standard that our citizens have. Why am I telling you all this? It is because of this eastern Croatia and because of this Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem which is already the most affected and which will be even more hit, or farmers will live even harder, and citizens who have to buy their products will certainly feel it in their pocket. Already in 2002. Most of the agricultural products were clearly collected. Last May of last year compared to May 2020. wholesale wheat prices in Croatia increased 26% compared to the same period last year, and corn grew as much as 51.3%. The sunflower shotgun grew over 20%, and the soybean grew about 10%, and the stern grew over 50%. So why am I telling you all this again? The feeding of cattle proved extremely expensive, and the prices of all types of flour grew from 10% to 20%. In this year we can expect an even higher price increase. And in the end, I want to end it with the thought that our Ministry of Agriculture and Government in this segment is doing nothing. Our cattlemen, who will especially be hit, are not helped, and as I said once shut down production in cattle farming is very difficult to restore to the rule of never again. Why is a government that speaks so much of demographics, which allegedly cares about Slavonia through the Slavonia project, etc. Don't even deal with this subject. It's really hard to figure out because my colleagues and colleagues have repeatedly highlighted new social homes, new roads, new locker rooms of football clubs in our villages in eastern Croatia at the end of the day won't have anyone to serve because everyone will leave that part of Croatia, and will leave why? So precisely because of this kind of relationship towards the east of Croatia, or the government's persistent inaction in light of the fact that this end of the producers, the industry to which it must be helped as a rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83159	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83160	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact that nothing is clear from the recovery after the earthquake and should not be stressed. Why there is no renewal is one more complex question with multiple levels of response and we will soon debate this assembly extensively, but what is certain is that one of the reasons is slow or no renewal of the complicated procedure that has been prescribed and only regulation that will be unnecessaryly complicated and long-term. Before the whole reconstruction process at all took seven months since the Zagreb earthquake to pass the first version of the law, after an earthquake in Banovina, it took a second version of the law, and then it took a year to conclude that the law was bad and impregnable and that it should be changed. In addition, as many as 4 versions of the programme of measures without which there is no operational implementation of the law have been said that nothing can be done, renewal cannot even begin without a specific law which must be thorough and, I guess, together with the programme, prescribe every fly, brick or nail that will be used in the reconstruction. The second step of the problem is that regulations are made complicated and impervious, necessary needlessly. A bunch of documents, procedures of various participants, brought the matter to a point of complete incompetence, to absurdity. The city service in the City of Zagreb charged for filling out the forms by justifying how complicated the procedures were. In other places special teams have been formed to explain to people how to apply. That's how it is when it comes to restoration. So when it comes to providing people who have suffered from an earthquake, that is to say, enabling and repairing their own roof over their heads, it's all complicated, waiting for years, nothing can happen without a few pounds of paper, and when you collect them, nothing happens. Even when you listen to the minister and rebuild it yourself, don't return the money. That's what the so-called. ordinary people. But there are some unusual people in this world, and they often become ministers or some other senior state officials, and then if they don't live in Zagreb, they have the right to an apartment while they're on duty, and there's nothing in that section that's controversial, that we understand, but in the same portfolio that is harassing people around the renovation, it suddenly becomes possible when it comes to the housing of government officials. Not only is your law not complicated, and you don't need tons of paper, no. You don't need any regulations at all, everything goes smooth, and the regulation that settles this issue hasn't been valid for four years. But in fact, it's still valid because no new one has ever been brought in, that the old one is not being applied. So this old and invalid, as it is wonderful, is a skillful and happy solution. And so, according to that old non-existent regulation, they assign state-owned dwellings, determine squares that belong to someone, even for children who don't live there at all, so these apartments are arranged, equipped, all fortunate and contented by our unusual people. Even the recovery after the earthquake is carried out quickly, no one asks a question, no one stops anything, the state works perfectly. And what do ordinary people do during that time, especially those whose properties were affected by the earthquake? They're waiting. They're waiting and they're losing hope that the restoration will ever happen. They break through impenetrable laws and other regulations. Those who are so impenetrable, brought just because of them and the restoration. Perhaps something could be learned from the examples of these state dwellings. Let them refer to that invalid regulation that's actually still in force. Let them try to secure their own roof over the head that is damaged by the earthquake, for as far as we read, it is a very skillful system. Not only do you pick an address so it's fast-tracked without a price question, you have a great apartment, but like in those commercials, that's not all. Because after you choose and arrange, the civil servants are going to buy you fancy pillows and irons. Well, colleagues and colleagues, isn't that perfect?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83296	Thank you, time, you are free and sovereign, thank you. We move on to, to positions, to make a point on behalf of the Representatives' Club and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Daniel Spajic. He's losing his right. ... You can still sign up, you know. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, he can still [[I apologize to the chairman who might be a little...]] And on behalf of and outside the club you can't not, you're right, he has a right secretary, yes. [[- I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Nothing, it can't. No, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't lose the right, you don't lose the right just Mr. Spijic and the club he represents, unfortunately. [[I'll get back to all the...]] And listen, I didn't make this up, I didn't invent this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Rasputic If I had written this Rules of Procedure, it would have been different. [[/Clip intrusion: The procedure is different.]] Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83297	If our law enforcement authorities were to worry about the safety of Croatian children at least as much as they care about the president of the government, someone from HZZ would at least end up on a briefing this week. The dirty, mindless and non-scienceal campaign of pushing and vaccination of children reached its peak this week by introducing anti-constitutional discrimination against unvaccinated children, so if they were in contact with the infected, they must be self-insulated and vaccinated, so from now on they are rewarded for not having to go to home arrest but can go to school. The day before yesterday, Croatian Deputy Director of HZJZ, Ivana Pavić Šimetin, quoted: every child who received the second dose of the vaccine will be freed from self-insulation. Likewise, every child who has been over and vaccinated with one dose regardless of when that single dose has been administered. It is recommended that all children aged 5 years and over be vaccinated. We recommend that our children be vaccinated and given two doses, if there is also too much of Capak's replacement. Since, after a recent study of the same HZZ and the vaccinated carry out an infection, they have recognised the responsibility of the ruling infuses in hospitals and deaths in them through vaccinated personnel who were anointed by covid should not have been tested clearly for the purpose of making it easier for vaccinated children not to prevent the spread of the infection because it is also extended. Therefore, vaccination of children is not a means of preventing the spread of infection but is the goal. For what? For the health of children, it is certainly not because other than immunocompromised children who are at risk and all other viruses are almost at risk of a serious illness in children. Therefore, if the purpose is not even to prevent the spread of the disease, and it is not because it is now wider and vaccinated and unvaccinated, and if the purpose is not to protect the health and life of children because they are not even at risk, the only purpose left is to deal the vaccine, even with children. Why is HZZ acting as a panicked Pfizer commercialist on sale, and not as an institution whose primary purpose must be to protect the health of Croatian citizens? There'll be a time when we can determine that, don't worry. Actually, you worry about who's doing this. Unlike all other Croatian children, one deserves special care, so much so that we came to the brink of returning the verbal delinquent as in the good old days as to say Mojem's Pear Jagic refering in time to the slaughter of Catholic priests. It is about the greatest son of our people and national minorities who, according to prominent analysts, no one from the opposition is even knee-deep, the owner of Brussels's superpowers, Andrej Plenkovic. Two citizens were arrested on the occasion of his visit to Maslenica. One wrote, to quote, to be welcomed by rotten eggs, him and his half-trons, and added that no one has humiliated and betrayed the Croats so much, and I call him, quote, a narcissist. And the other one was arrested because he wrote, quote, hit lightning, crack thunder, didn't you, too, with Fruck in Ukraine, complete the quote. The egg is not verbal but really 2003. Minister Slavko Linic was then awarded in Imotsko. Since it is a common chicken egg, it can be said that it even went well since it was a hard - ground roaming and did not whine. Helmut Kohl was shot with eggs in Hale in '91, the attacker was detained and released. The German Chancellor didn't file a report. This is paraphrasing Caesar's iacta est! We can't even say the egg was thrown, it's just mentioned, and that's a lot for arrests in Plenkovic's Croatia. In Yugoslavia, in the 1980s, a special Act on the protection of the characters and works of Josip Broz Tito was passed as a result of the fall of popularity. In order to avoid any misunderstandings about the possibility of applying Art. 17. The law on violations against public order and peace in case of an egg against Plenkovic needs a new law. The law on the protection of the characters and works of Master Andrej Plenkovic will have to be drawn up and directed to the parliamentary procedure by us if we want to be quality. In an article relating to the egg, we will have to distinguish the mention of the eggs as in the Zadar case, the direct threat to the egg and the specific assassination of the egg. The legislator would have to implement not only the difference in the weight of the action if the product is a rotten or fresh egg but the law would have to coordinate the weight of the qualification of the work of an egg's mind, word or part with the dimensions of the means of committing the crime because it is not the same as whether it is an egg or a quail. A particularly difficult environment would represent an egg from below cultivation. About ungrateful peoples, GDP has grown so much, it introduces you into the euro zone and Schengen, and you threaten him with an egg. Maybe you don't deserve anything but for your greatest benefactor to give up on you, stop making you happy and go to Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83384	Thank you, too. The SDP Representatives' Club's position will be Vice-President Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to talk today about a topic that in general focuses on topics like Covid, political conflicts at a number of levels and so on. high politics is a little out of sight, and that's culture. In this presentation, I will refer to an independent culture, a culture of new or innovative culture and its position today especially in the light of its funding by the state and society. We all know that in every society, every culture, both its creation and its interpretation, is looking for the permanent support of the community in which they form or fail. It is not easy today especially in these pandemic conditions to survive and we as a classical, traditional culture already recognized and incorporated into the cultural scene and the cultural market, and it is almost impossible even to exist in that new culture, which is innovative and I would say avant-garde without the support of the state, society and its institutions. This is precisely the goal of recognising that, without the support of state and society, there is no culture and that there is no state or society since 2011 the Republic of Croatia established the Culture Foundation new to provide professional and financial support to civil society organisations operating in the field of contemporary culture and art, and the key objectives of the Foundation are to improve the production and organisational capacities of programme holders and contribute to their stabilisation and development. There is also an indication of the rise in the level of professional action, the establishment of cross-sectoral cooperation, software networking, the promotion of artistic creation of young people, critical review, social, economic, political, historical, ethical and ideological environments, the deviation from dominant concepts of engagement and innovation, etc. All that sounds great, maybe it's going well, but today, unfortunately, it's only in theory. In practice, according to at least the information I have, which we can read about in the media, it's not like that. In reality, some of the cultural institutions that have proved during the years of their existence and activities that they are doing exactly what the Culture Foundation needs to support remain without financial support, thus being condemned to fail and to cease to exist. And with them, culture dies. Why? It's hard to understand. First, it is about extremely small financial amounts that cover only the most basic costs. In the case of a Eurocas which has also been rejected from the national foundation or in its competition, it is a single minimum wage of some 4,000 kuna for a single employee. The state doesn't have any money for one minimum wage. Secondly, the evaluation of the tender for the notified projects is carried out by one incomprehensible bureaucratic model and criteria which do not result in the choice of those who really contribute to the development of a different and innovative culture than those who manage to draw up such a formal application that will meet certain requirements that have nothing to do with culture. There are no objective evaluation criteria, there is no explanation of why something is important, and something is not, points are allocated in very vague categories, assessments are given by people without stage experience, and some conditions for obtaining support are completely out of common sense, such as the one about including as many volunteers or the number of audiences, which in these pandemic circumstances is not possible but are limited to the regulations of the same state which also finance the trust or users of the support. Instead of a realistic assessment of the present city of cultural organizations or their actual cultural contribution, formal explanations in the application forms and their adaptation to the rigid bureaucratic phrases of the contest are seen. This has nothing to do with the development and promotion of the free spirit of art but the opposite. Art is driven by stereotypes, phraseology and bureaucratic measuring categories, and this is not the task of this national foundation. The result of all this will be the shutting down and disappearance of cultural initiatives and projects that make up the spirit of our society, and society will seem to be left to the spine, the teats and the Tic Toker Influencers. Do we really want that? We need to seriously consider and discuss this, and I am now announcing that I will ask to discuss this in both the HS and the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83467	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn as an independent representative. He's gone, he's gone, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, will be the positions of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83468	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As of this morning, we are talking about amendments to the Labour Market Act, and today I am going to talk about active employment policy measures from HZZ's jurisdiction, and whose implementation is based on provisions, under Article. 34 to 36. The labour market law. HZZ Administrative Council 28.12.2021.g. it has decided to adopt the conditions and means of use of the measures to implement them in the current year. During 2021. which, due to the pandemic, was difficult in economic terms, involved 31,401 persons in active employment policy measures, of which 16,149 women and 15,252 men. I will now highlight the most important news that brings forward the programme of active employment policy measures in 2022 compared to the previous year. These are higher amounts of support for employment and traineeships, a wider spectrum of targeted user groups with an emphasis on vulnerable groups, an extended duration of traineeship support and up to 24 months of employment, a higher amount of self-employment support, but also an extension of support by introducing a sub-measure of labour mobility "Selecting Croatia" which can be used by returnees from the European Economic Area and from Switzerland and Croatian citizens who would move from developed parts of the Republic of Croatia to economically less developed and demographically weakened areas. The measure provides additional financial support to self-employment support users and this 50,000 kuna for self-employment returnees, and persons who decide to move or change their residence to less developed regions of the Republic of Croatia can receive additional support from 25,000 kuna. It is also a significant administrative dispensation when applying in a way that the HZZ itself will collect documentation from relevant official sources, and will also exchange data with other bodies, such as the average number of employees, and paid salaries, which will contribute to the acceleration of procedures. One part of the measures will be financed by the NPOO and this support for self-employment, and support for employment and traineeships in which the increased amount is financed by requirements that meet the criteria of green or digital employment. Employers applying to support for green activities must meet operating criteria within the field of green activities. The list of eligible activities, i.e. an indicative list of green products and services under those activities, constitute the basis for granting support for a green workplace. List is published on the website of mere.hr. Digital jobs are jobs and jobs for which a person must possess highly specialised, advanced information and communication skills or possess knowledge in the fields of programming, application development, digital business analysis, marketing, design, algorithm development and the like. Also this year, the submission of requests and fees for the follow-up of requests via "my requests" online application which is also on the website of the measure.hr. Physical persons use the e-Citizens system and there is enough third level through the bank's tokens, and employers must use HZZ's user account for employers who can create or have it on that site and use it on the labour market to hand over ads for jobs. The requirements under the active policy measures implemented by the HZZ shall be accepted by 30.11.2020, with the exception of the "self-employment and business expansion" measure where the requirements are accepted by 31.10.In '22. Extraordinary requirements for ‘permanent season’ due to the fact that people working seasons are being admitted throughout the year, means the last day of entry is 31.12.2022.g. One of the newspapers is the payment of lump sums of support, which will speed up and simplify the processing of objects and their resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83594	Thank you, too. The position of the IDS Representatives Club will be a colleague of Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia there are no more young tokars, autoelectricists, heating installers, air conditioning of electromounters, shipbuilders, ship mechanics etc., etc., occupations that we would need very much. Why is that? The reason is more but one of them is certain that even when enrolling in most schools, they do not take into account the minimum score threshold that has been represented in previous years, and then this type of enrolment gives them the opportunity to write down some high school and four-year vocational programs with slightly lower grades in elementary school, and therefore to remain without students and so on year after year, without occupation, and without schools. The fact is that demographic movements have also had a strong impact on the overall attendance of secondary education. According to statistics from 2013 to 2019, the three-year programmes of regular vocational education were mostly affected where the number of students decreased by almost 30%, and in some of the most popular professions from 2013 to 50%, while the number of students in sciences in the last 6 years was literally halved and I am talking about the period before Covid. We are currently importing labour for tourism, hospitality, construction, and soon we will be like Western countries for occupations in fact already started in engineering, electrical engineering, etc. Today it is on the labour market in Istria County, from which I come the greatest need for professional professions but those three-year industrial, craftsmanship. And unfortunately, in Istria today, we have a total of over 6,000 students of only 1,020 students of three years of education. When we compare this data to that of the whole country, the average is approximately the same where slightly more than 144,000 students, we have only 27,770 students in three years of education. Professional education is the most represented in four years of education and that is what should also be separated when statistical processing results. But in addition, the National Recovery Plan of the Republic of Croatia provides for an increase in the proportion of high school students enrolled in high school programmes. And what's also one of the problems we've been facing lately is the lack of qualified professional staff in both school teachers and employers. Interests in single-model education programs require practical training in licensed crafts, making it difficult for students and schools to find them. In order to obtain a license, learners must provide students with the conditions to acquire competences in the real working environment, including mentors with appropriate qualifications and pedagogical competences. And there's a problem because few employers today want to take responsibility for teaching students without getting any stimulation or relief from the state. Capital investment in education infrastructure is necessary in particular for professional professions. Creating equal schooling conditions in all environments, equal conditions or similar to those of the employer should be at the centre of action. That's why I'm asking questions. Will the Government of the Republic of Croatia finally do something to develop professional three-year education? Whether they will do something about investing in infrastructure and modernising existing schools, modernising professions, or will continue to support the demographic outflow of young generations, which, due to their enrolment in high school and four-year schools, remain jobless or with the burden of schooling and at the expense of their own parents or their own deprived state aids. Isn't it wiser to educate children for the needs of a society that has no electroinstaller, a plumber, a builder simply has no vital interest in life? It is necessary to apply a network of schools based on real labour market needs. Let us therefore allow schools that educate such students to exchange three-year professional programmes and increase classrooms according to the needs of the labour market if there is an interest of students in such occupations because there are examples of this because otherwise, demographic opportunities will be worse for us year after year, as well as a lack of vital labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83661	Mr. Veljko Kajtazi will be the position of the National Minority Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u83662	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. As a representative of the Jewish national minority in HS, each of them was determined in its own way by the events of World War II on European soil. On the occasion of the International Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust that we are marking tomorrow and in which I have spoken countless times. I'll remind you of a sentence I said here exactly a year ago. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all colleagues and fellow MPs, regardless of party membership, to fully accept the proposal of the Jewish community and other flocking peoples, to welcome the Ustasha characteristics and greetings, including the House prepared by criminal law, clearly forbidd by the example of the German law, and to show together that we do not have to fear the rumor of a radical and backward minority which most of our citizens do not support. The currentity of this issue confirms to us a few days ago a UN resolution condemning the denial of the Holocaust and appealing to all countries and social networks to take active action in the fight against anti-Semitism and denial or distortion of the Holocaust. Ambassadors of Israel and Germany who encouraged this resolution stressed the importance of adoption on January 20th at the 80th anniversary of the Wansee conference when Nazi leaders planned a final solution to the Jewish issue. The result was the establishment of a Nazi death camp where nearly 6 million Jews were killed even 1/3 of the Jewish people. In camps, a large number of other minority nations were killed, including an unconfirmed number of Roma most often estimated at half a million, and in some sources even nearly a million. I am glad that we in Croatia have made significant steps in developing the preconditions for learning and education about the victims in World War II, and thus built the Roma Memorial Center Ustice. However, the perilous nations are still not satisfied with the number of students visiting the site of the second world war. We are not happy until the end with what is being taught and how much is being taught in schools, and all for the aftermath of all the easier placement of false information for the result and denial of the loss of Jewish and Roma and other victims, and as we know, denial is precisely the last stage of genocide. Although the UN General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding, they reflect the thinking of all countries that supported the adoption of this document. In that sense, I believe that this step is also an incentive to require the perilous nations that I represent when I speak of our relationship to the legacy of World War II. I am pleased in this regard and with the statement by the new President of the Supreme Court, Radovan Dobronic, on the call for a home ready to be referred to on this topic as a nationalisation issue. That's exactly what the UN Resolution said was about a civilization issue, not just our internal issue. I am glad that at the beginning of the term of office, he repeated what we have been talking about for years, and that is why I call killed people without cause and reason on the basis of unrepeated criteria that cannot and cannot exist. It supports and celebrates almost absolutely the genocide of the Jews and the Roma because more than 95% of those nations found in the territory that the NDH considers its own. Today's brief presentation ends, I think I was clear enough as last year, and I hope that this attitude will finally be taken by our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88729	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, good morning to you. Today we begin with: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Before I give my word to the promoter, we have requests for a break, first came from colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88730	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club in order to reconsider the position of persons with disabilities in the labour market. Namely, what we are going to do today is some kind of fire measures, the resolution of the consequences of the fact that we have a large number of people with disabilities, almost 30% of people with disabilities do not have any work experience. But what we should really think about today and where we should make greater efforts to bring the labour market closer to people with disabilities. In this regard, several key issues are raised. During 2020 as warned by the Advocate-General for Persons with Disabilities of Active Employment Measures, which were measures that encouraged employers to employ disabled persons have been partially suspended. Our question today is whether they are fully restored and can they be further improved? Another question we should find the answer here is why do we have so many unemployed people with disabilities? They're 2020. either 6.231 and 3.9% in general of the unemployed who are registered on the labour market. In this regard, we need to look at the challenges faced by people with disabilities. Some of them are discrimination at the workplace, the inability to adapt the conditions of competition and the workplace to people with disabilities. Until we solve these problems, we will not have more persons with disabilities in the labour market and we will be able to deal with them and will be effective only in such legislative changes as we welcome, but which give benefits to unemployed people with disabilities rather than becoming our colleagues on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88731	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Grmoy, I was now warned by the secretary of the plenary session of my colleagues, Bukarica, that you were given a strict measure yesterday that you could not be present yesterday and today at HS, so I would ask you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88732	Sir, Mr. Bukarica is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88733	Wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88734	Mr. Bukarica forgot to warn you...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88735	My friend Grumo, you have now come into my words and started speaking without me finishing my thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88736	Finish it, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88737	So, no, I didn't. You've been given a strict measure so you can't be here in the assembly today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88738	So Mr. Bukarica forgot to remind you that the vice president of the Ante Sanader assembly had counter-worked, so he said I was being stripped of my right to speak for two days. Such a measure does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, did not remove me from the session. This was also warned by counterpart Bauk, and I only asked HDZ to take a political stance on whether it was unacceptable to arrest a man because he said that rotten eggs should be prepared It's absolutely inadmissible and now.../Speaker off/.... [[Come on, let's go now, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88739	Let's go, let's go. I'm asking you to sit down, don't do the show here right now. So, you've been given a strict measure by the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88740	Anti-business.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88741	Yeah, but after that, according to what you're doing alone... No, it's not, it's not after half a day. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm asking you to leave this... All right, then we'll do a session break-up. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm going to ask you to leave the assembly because it's the decision of Vice President HS. You've been in violation of the Rules of Procedure, you've received several warnings, and according to that, you can't be in the assembly today. So please don't make an incident. I heard and explained to me that the first step was a step-by-step measure that was not defined in the Rules of Procedure, following the warning of President Bauk, the Vice-President of the Sanader Assembly changed his decision and said it as it says in the Rules of Procedure of the HS. So please do it, now we'll take a five-minute break. Here you go, I hope it'll be reconciled... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88742	They will, so I think if something should be business, it's to get me off the table. I am not told that measure at all, and if I continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, then get me out of the session for two days. It wasn't done, so I'm neither far from the session, so it couldn't get me away from the session for two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88743	I'm going to ask this one now to see, I wasn't present, now they've warned me, so I'm going to ask now to see exactly what happened, so we'll continue after the session, if it's right, I'll insist that you can't be in the assembly today, and if not, it's possible that it's not then I'll decide you'll be there. We'll continue at nine o'clock and 50 minutes. 9 A.M., 38 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:51 A.M.]] So, for the sake of the public, I have to tell you what happened. You received a fourth order notice, then the fifth in a row and then after that Vice President Sanader told you to take your word for yesterday and today. He then reacted to his colleague, Bauk, and said that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, that the strict measure could not be said and that he had spoken it wrong and that it was corrected. After that, the Vice President of the Parliament corrected himself and said you couldn't be present for two days in the assembly. So it's very clear and very clear. Here, you can check it out. I thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88745	Okay. I did well. I could have been arrested for criticizing the president's character and actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88746	Don't be afraid of your colleagues, you've already said so much, that if you're not arrested by now, you'll never be arrested. Let's move on. Now, my colleague Pavlichek will explain the break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88747	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to consult again on this final bill proposal, but to find once again that persons with disabilities are one of the most difficult groups and most vulnerable groups in our society. Unfortunately, and so far, the legislative proposals, in particular the proactive employment policy of these individuals, have not yielded the results we expect. We primarily think about the pens that certain companies pay if they do not have a certain number of disabled persons according to the total number of employees. The question is how much these measures are actually being checked and how much these companies are actually paying for certain foams. But here, I'd like to take a particular look at Article 70a. Article 4 is replaced by the following: ‘Current aid for an unemployed person with disabilities shall be determined at a rate of 10% of the minimum wage in net amount, i.e. at an amount of 375 kuna.’ So what can one person with 375 kuna, especially persons with disabilities? I think this is really a demeaning of every person's dignity, especially a person with disabilities. I think it's really a low-level payment limit for those people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88748	The apartment is approved. However, in accordance with Article 293b. We will continue to work immediately, so I will now ask that, on behalf of the promoter, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Pensions System, Family and Social Policy, Ivan You can present the final draft of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88749	President-in-Office of the Parliament, MPs and MPs. Amendments and additions to the Labour Market Act shall be made for horizontal alignment with the new Social Care Act. The new Social Care Act, as part of the reform of the social care system, proposes to change the real competence in the process of recognising the right to compensation for employment. Instead of the Centre for Social Care on that right, the Croatian Employment Service will decide according to the employment regulations. Employment benefits can be recognised by a child with developmental difficulties, i.e. a person with a disability whose physical, mental and intellectual or sensory impairment has been established on the basis of findings and opinions of the Institute of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The right is exercised after the completion of primary school, high school or higher education, and at the earliest 15 years of life. A person with disabilities must be able or partially able to work and kept in the register of unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service. As evidenced by the material protection of persons with disabilities in the context of employment regulations, it is also proposed to change the name of this right to financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities. The average number of rights users at the annual level is around 2000 people. This law proposes the amount of money aid of 10% minimum salary in net amount, and financial assistance is paid to the user monthly as long as it is kept in the register of unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service. So far, the fee has been fixed at a fixed amount of 350 kuna per month. This law will allow unemployed persons with disabilities to receive professional support services and help find work on the one hand and certain material assistance on the other. This approach and efficiency in handling contributes to the quality of the service provided and to the successful integration of persons with disabilities on the labour market. Giving material assistance to unemployed people with disabilities with professional support for the labour market integration process is part of the overall concern of disabled people. Since it is an unemployed person with disabilities who does not meet the conditions for exercising his right during unemployment, it is necessary to provide them with continued material legal protection. The following is important to adopt this law by emergency procedure in order to comply horizontally with the rules and reduce the negative consequences for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88750	What are you done with? Are you done? You have to say you're done. Okay. Then let's go with the replicas. Comrade Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88751	And I'm surprised this took so long, because there's really a lot to say about hiring people with disabilities, but maybe that's not your priority, too. In that sense, my question is this. There is a growth in the number of disabled persons by the end of 2018, followed by a decline in the number of disabled persons. Do you feel personal responsibility for such trends and what will you do to make them change? My second question concerns the amount of compensation that unemployed people with disabilities will receive, which is why you have decided on only a modest 10% minimum wage and are you willing to consider increasing that fee?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88753	As for, first of all, congratulations on the good news. As to the amount of the fee itself, so it is currently and increased, what was before and fixed for the net amount of minimum wage, means 375 kuna. And as for other data, I think it is important to point out that this is only part of a single package which, by other amendments or amendments to the Social Care Act, provides for a whole series of... and raising the basic disability fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the labour market, we note some shifts, as well as the number of disabled persons employed in the register of disabled persons and as regards the reduction of the number of unemployed persons with disabilities in HZZ records. Of course we want an even greater shift, first of all we do it through an element, or instrument that we have at our disposal, which is the active employment policy measures, which carry on neatly, there was one interruption that you mentioned at the time of the most intense /incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88754	Please only take care of one minute. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88755	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I work in health care, so I'm wondering if you have any information about how many people with disabilities are employed in health care institutions in the Republic of Croatia, or how much a penalty is paid when people with disabilities are not employed, and I don't know for sure, just don't know the exact information and what the rest of the departments are doing to stimulate healthcare institutions to employ people with disabilities as much as possible, or to use replacement programs, so that they don't exactly pay for these pens. In fact, because of the very nature of the job, as far as I'm concerned, according to health institutions, people with disabilities often don't even report to these specific jobs, but still, there are options for replacement programs, so here, please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88757	As for the exact number of unemployed persons with disabilities or persons with disabilities in the healthcare system, I have to admit that I don't know that exact number, but we can check it out. As far as the penalty is concerned, he's 970 kuna per employer, so for that quota he doesn't meet. As far as this quota is concerned in general, of 9,000 approximately, employers who have an obligation means, if they have more than 20 employees and a labour rule, which must employ an unemployed person, and there we get a real size, a large amount of funds that are subsequently invested in protective workshops and other subsidies relating to the employment of disabled persons. As for the subsidies themselves, it's a really big amount, it's 120 million a year spent last year, plus our active employment policy measures, that's about 150 million kuna. As far as the exact number of people in this system is concerned, I'm going to check the data, as far as the penalty is concerned, 975 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88758	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88759	Thank you, dear president of HS, Secretary of State. Despite the coronary crisis that has hit us and cost us more than 40 billion kuna so far, this government has managed to ensure a good management of the number of employees, not only in general but also in increasing the number of persons with disabilities, which has been secured back 5 years, as far as I know more than half a billion kunas, precisely to encourage employment of persons with disabilities and to raise their quality of life and in general position on the labour market, so I ask you to give us a wider perspective of what the Ministry of Labour has done to raise the quality of life of people with disabilities, especially in order to have a better position on the labour market and to encourage their employment, which so far is 15% higher than 2017. So please get more information on that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88760	Thank you very much. Before the Secretary of State answers, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88761	Art. 238, counterpart Buric deceives the public, the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities says unequivocally that in the last 3 years the number of people with disabilities has fallen. This government did not allow people to buy fresh eggs, but they only have the old ones and the bad ones, let alone that it has strengthened the employment of people with disabilities, unless the lawyer is false, as you clearly claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88762	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know it very well, you get a warning. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88763	I'll risk my warning. My colleague Buric really cheats on the public, and not only by the number of people with disabilities, but also by the number of people with disabilities, but again, no, again means increasing the number of employees, here are the numbers of insurance companies, and tens of thousands of people who are insurance workers, and are not employed, You're manipulating that statistic without saying that [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]] We have one of the lowest employment rates, so don't brag about it. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88764	You're getting a warning. And please, MPs and MPs, you have opportunities through replicas, through individual debates, through debates of clubs, through breaks, through final speeches to present views and speak what you disagree with. So please don't violate the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Secretary of State. You see, the answer to the line. Yeah, sorry, sorry, we've got a colleague named Buric, and she's also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: What is...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88765	Thank you, Your Honor, here is my duty to correct and my colleague Selak Rasudic and Mrs. Katarina Peović who deceive the public and who provide incorrect information Namely, it's exactly the following, that's this one. [[Intruder: Fellow Buric.]] Government in the Last [[Intruder: Fellow Buric.]] 5 years invested 640 million.../ [[/Intruder: Please. Please.]] Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88766	Please. Now I've asked you not to do what you're doing and you're getting a warning. Please sit down. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88767	As far as the wider picture is concerned, indeed, over 640 million were invested in hiring people with disabilities in 2016. These are figures relating to what the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities offers. There are investments of 502 million kuna or half a billion kuna, and in addition, as I have mentioned active policy and employment measures since 2016, 138 million kuna was invested here, of which 28 million kuna last year. We currently have 6,000 people with disabilities in the record, which is a reduction compared to 2016 according to our data and what I mean is that of course we are still looking and that we have provided additional intensity within the NPO for the employment of people with disabilities. So the subsidy for people with disabilities as regards our measures is now a year-long contract, and this subsidy will extend to two years, up to 75% of the gross salary cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88768	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88769	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. So precisely for the purpose of not discriminating persons with disabilities, a new social care law has been abolished, a series of compensations have also been increased from a minimum fee to compensation for persons with disabilities to 1,700 kunas, remuneration for personal needs, etc., but the new law also provides for the extension of the circle of persons who will gain the status of guardians, as well as for persons with the status of guardians and the raising of fees exactly and for them, which will certainly create for those with development difficulties and for persons with disabilities that they will be able to stay in their own home and thus help them, so here I would ask you to comment on that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88770	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88771	As for the compensation for the foster parents, it will be raised to 4,500 kuna, and for those who have more children to 6,000 kuna. As far as the pension system is concerned, yes, that is true, a circle of those who have a well-favoured work experience or who receive additional months, and this refers to people with Down syndrome, people who have different sensory difficulties, but also people who have problems with their health system in general and cannot participate in the standard way in the labour market. As far as the fee itself is concerned, that the fee will be raised to 1,750 kuna, we predict that there will be around 40,000 users and that the increase in that cost, which is around 840 million kuna, will be around 145 million kuna. So the amount of compensation and the number of users is spreading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88772	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88773	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is good that the cash compensation for the unemployed in the system and the jurisdiction of the Employment Service instead of in the current social work system. It is not good that you have not been bold and organised a system of social care according to the needs of the users now that you have already had the opportunity to do so because the reform of social care in this form is inconclusive, but you will see for yourself. The fact that these users already have unemployment benefits already registered at the Employment Service, but have not been sufficiently represented as a target group when applying active employment policies. What are you going to do to make these active employment policies more accessible to users of this fee, or to make employers more willing to hire a disabled person, or so that people with disabilities are better informed that they can report for an active employment policy measure? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88774	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88775	I'm glad we have a chance to talk about the subject of the law, because it's really important. So, changing the real jurisdiction of HZZ to focus exactly and to that, means other than the grant of compensation, we want to put both material assistance and professional assistance in one place. So, as I mentioned in the previous question, we are now going to have really very intense incentives through active employment policy measures for people with disabilities and we want to put an additional adviser clock man clock work on these vulnerable groups. And that is why I think it is extremely important that this is a great emphasis on HZZ's jurisdiction because we can now really go out with additional measures for employers. And what I see from the data is more and more employers who participate in our measures over 600 last year, which is twice as much as 2016.When it was only around 280, we see that there is a change of consciousness and we want to participate in this with our social partners and employers in order to break these barriers because we believe that people with disabilities with real incentives and professional help can really contribute to the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88776	Thank you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88777	Secretary of State, you're a great student of an even more brilliant mentor, you walk in his footsteps, and you're declaring an increase of 25 kuna a concern for people who are unemployed, people with disabilities. Yesterday on the Labour Committee, you said HDZ would take special care of social rights in this country and would pay a lot of attention to that. I'll just warn my colleagues and colleagues how important minimum wage is when you have a situation here where this fee is tied to a minimum wage of 10%, and let's warn that the minimum wage in Europe is one of the lowest in us that we belong to the ten countries that have the lowest minimum wage, which has grown the worst in the last ten years, and then with that amount, we tie this up. So if we tie anything to nothing, we get nothing, and it's this statistical manipulation that we get from HDZ all the time. So this isn't any increase, the increase should be 1,000% to be realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88779	So, for starters, I would disagree that the growth of minimum wage was one of the slowest, especially in the last year, although we had an extensive debate about it, the minimum wage was as stated in that debate increased by 2... Kuna to HRK 3,750 which last year is very likely to skip more Member States, which is why we decided to fix it with a minimum wage growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the amount, I think I'll do it again because it's really not a small thing. So if you've now had a grant of gross salary to a person with disabilities of 75%, and now it's going to be two years, it's really big steps to secure the funds, and I believe that everyone will recognize that because they're really big steps, let's just say when we're specifically talking about active employment measures. But of course it's a whole package and a series of incentives that are focused there and a series of incentives that are there to contribute to the overall position of people with disabilities on the labour market, so I wouldn't just fix on that one, just on that one, on that fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88780	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88781	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate that it is good that it has been decided through a set of social policy measures to work on this step and move this to employment centres or employment centres, because I appreciate that it is much better and much more correct and much more useful, but there is no end. You can't, it's like a bag of potatoes when you move from one to the next and you can't leave that bag of potatoes standing there and nothing happening. What should be further should therefore be the task of our Employment Service regarding active employment policy measures for persons with disabilities. So, they have to get more active, they have to be more active in general about employers, the importance, the possibility, and everything else, so it just doesn't be a dead letter on paper, that it hasn't been recognized okay, it's not there either, it's not there, it's here, but let's really make that serious step.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88782	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88783	Here, I can only agree, so I'm going to give a few examples of what I think is personally important with these measures to improve the position of people with disabilities on the labour market. So the measures aren't enough and I'd like to point out a few more things here. These are transport costs, these are the costs of adapting conditions and jobs that can be more than 180,000 kuna, so we also have to make it aware of employers that these funds are available and that these incentives exist because, let's say, this transport costs and working conditions are something that some create a certain barrier, because they think that these funds cannot win, and now they are available and as I said at an altitude of more than 180,000 kuna, so that's just one example. Of course, there are different subsidies and for the education of people with disabilities where up to 70% of costs can be covered, and we believe that this is also very important because, in previous years, we have noticed that the education they attended was very often for help, for auxiliary professions, which does not always have to be a good, good direction regarding their education. So I also stress both the conditions and the skills and the incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88784	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88785	Your Honor, I'm sorry you didn't know that. You don't know what the exact number of people at the Department of Employment with Disabilities is right now. I think that's a very important item that shows us whether the current legal proposals have had any results or not. But I'm curious, you mentioned that 9,000 business entities are obliged to employ persons with disabilities in accordance with the Staff Regulations on the designation of employment quotas for persons with disabilities, do you know how many of those 9,000 have complied with these legal norms, and which part of them are still not held or paid for the penalty due to non-compliance with this Regulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88786	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88787	Here's everything I know. So first, we have 6,000 people on the records, unemployed persons with disabilities, and in 2016 we had 7,600. It's about the first data. You asked for the number of taxpayers who had to pay so-called. quotas. That's 9,000 employers are bonding means paying for it. Of which somewhere a third of employers benefit, a third of employers, or two thirds, excuse me, two thirds of them do not, do not respect that quota then have to compensate. As I said subsidies are being used more and more, we would like more, last year 630 employers, 2016. 280, so here we have a certain shift and we are satisfied because last year it was about 2,000 people with disabilities that employers hired with encouragement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88788	My colleague, Pocrnic Radošević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88789	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as one of the advantages of these amendments to the law, mentions the possibility for people with disabilities in one place also to receive a professional service of providing help in employment and material payment of money rights, which will be this financial aid for unemployed persons with disabilities who change money support to employment, means the difference is in the payer who will now be the Croatian Employment Service. The same institution registered 6,179 unemployed at the end of December and made up 4.9 of the total number of unemployed persons who are 125,715. The active policy measures included 765 people with disabilities, which is 2.4 of the total number of users. I believe that this is an opportunity for us to stress the working potential of people with disabilities registered at the employment office, but also of all those who for various reasons have not been reported, and should be highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88790	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88791	Again, as regards real competence, I would really like to point out that it was a big problem, for example in 2016-2015, we had a much higher number of unemployed and then the problem was that HZZ advisers could not provide individualised support to those who needed such type of support. So today we're talking about 125,000 employees, so that's 111,000 unemployed in the record less than before. However, advisers and advisors other than that part of support are also engaged in measures aimed at... , means to attract people with disabilities to our records where they get professional help. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're going to do other than these active employment policy measures and very specialized activation programs and workshops because what we need is a conditional scan, a individual user's scan and a determination of what's ahead of it is a barrier. So, as I have cited the incentive is not enough in itself but is sufficient and quality activation program and professional assistance and self-evaluation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88792	Now she's going to be replicated by her colleague Sablar-Dračevac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88793	I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for your esteemed secretary with her co-worker. Our goal is to activate or activate persons with disabilities, but also socially, so we need an inclusive society where every power will contribute because when a man does it is very important for his mental health, he feels worthy, dignified. I can't understand how you think 375 kuna can help someone who's actively looking for a job? It seems to me that this 10% is simply too small. It's clear to me now that you've led us to believe that 6,000 people are going to be carrying some amount of money, but there's little to think about, or price. And I'd also ask you, you've stated that employers will be working to get money to adjust their jobs and that they will get money to transport people with disabilities. I wonder if there are any other measures [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Which are. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleagues Sanja Dračevac.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88794	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88795	In addition to these measures, transport is not only directed at employers but also at persons with disabilities. Let's say that if we were to talk specifically about transport here, we noticed that there are simply no standard transport options in some environments, so let's say we also enabled taxi transport up to 1,000 kuna per month. Clearly, this is one of the elements and it is not enough in itself, so it should be looked at in the context of all the givings and personal disability where it excluded a whole series of fees from what was previously included and which made it impossible for people to receive that fee. As far as that amount is concerned, I only have one more thing to say, so right now in the Labour Markets Act, the conditions for you to ever earn employment benefits in this case for people with disabilities were somewhat stricter and you only got nine years of internships in two years. So this is one conditionally said newspaper, and the money will be one newspaper, so in itself it's certainly not enough, but in this package and personal disability I think that it will all contribute. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88796	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88797	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary of State. Here are the data very simple, but I remind you of an old saying, “Give a man a fish you helped him for that day, teach him how to fish, you helped him for life. ” So, as the Homeland Movement and as its representative, I believe that we should take more measures to employ people with disabilities and their full equal inclusion in Croatian society, and here these figures I must admit are not at all impressive. To raise something from 350 to 375 kuna or 25 kuna per month or 83 lipa per day will certainly not encourage anyone's interest in entering the labour market at all. So, we create a prerequisite for hiring people with disabilities and allowing them human dignity and inclusion in society, and we may use those fees to create an equal market system in which they can compete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88799	I'd like to repeat some of this past answer, but what you said I didn't hear you very technically well, but you said something about learning so the person's actually a self-sufficient life. And that's exactly what we're aiming at now with other measures that very often can be used in parallel with these active employment measures that I mentioned earlier, and these are measures to acquire formal qualifications of education because, as I said at the outset, a lot of people with disabilities are being trained in auxiliary professions, and they have skills for something more. And that's why I'd like to put an emphasis on the education measures of the unemployed that we have standardly where we can get money support for participation, for transport costs it's, say, 1,400 kunas that are then accumulated with what the MP mentioned earlier. So here we have a whole series of elements, but I agree with you I'd put an emphasis on skills. We would also like to raise awareness of this, and I would also like to say that the costs for professional educators and working protection workshops have been raised, but also in standard measures where you can learn both at work and in some formal institution to retrain or improve your skills.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88800	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88801	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear to all that it could help people with disabilities that society should be richer or that the state must have the resources, but this way I will say superficially that this amount that is intended is not enough for what is intended for it. I see here that in these amendments, or in this proposal, the law states that the state is obliged to intervene in the employment of persons with disabilities. I wonder what this means to mediate? Is it active finding jobs for these people or is it when that person finds a job means a bargaining process because the biggest problem for these people is to find out where he has a job that is adequate to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88802	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88803	As far as the HDZ process itself is concerned, therefore, the name is also changed to financial assistance to employment, so you have certain obligations to carry out when you are on the record of unemployed persons or report to the offers your advisor finds for you. So, as regards support in HZZ, there are two elements that we have talked about today, that is, first of all, to find an adequate job, to meet an employer who offers some offer that there are other additional elements that can be used to hire this person, whether it's a job adjustment, whether it's active employment measures, but then even when a person is hired, we remain available and we keep track of what is happening and if they need to be with individual employers because some consultants specialize in activities, then there can be additional education and training at work. This element is of great importance to me, so it is one process which has its elements and is also required by the user to participate in certain offers that the adviser or advisor also finds on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88804	Here you go, Comrade Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88805	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is certain that people with disabilities are in society one care that is needed, but first of all we are aware of people with disabilities can make a full contribution to society, in the community, in companies, and therefore I believe this package that you give not only to the Employment Office as payment of opportunities but also to the ability of companies not only of the state but of all employers where the state will encourage people with disabilities to do what they have, and I can give a great contribution to the community in their knowledge to be as good as possible, as best applied in society. And this is a good start, and I believe that in packages that are going to be as high-quality and as safe as possible for those people, but also for a better society because they are important in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88806	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88807	Agent Deur, here, and I'd like to put an emphasis on what you said, so I think a lot of people have a perception of what the barriers are to people with disabilities and what they can actually offer on the labour market. There's some sort of conditionality reserve for people with disabilities. However, we also had a lot of projects from the old European Social Fund to continue in the new European Social Fund. There was one call for workshops for people with disabilities where the competition was finally held, a very good example and competition for people with disabilities in culinary skills, which was quite publicly followed, a lot of it, I apologized, a lot of the media passed on, mainly through these workshops to change their consciousness, key employers were invited, but people with disabilities showed that, with professional supervision, adequate means and framework, they could certainly contribute and do jobs and interests that objectively exist that they could not, and also with the adaptation of the workplace, which I had previously talked about, architectural and conditions of the workplace itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88808	And the last replica, colleagues of Juricev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88809	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today, when we talk about amendments to the Labour Market Act, which applies exclusively to persons with disabilities, I must say that I welcome every and every little change that can help our most vulnerable citizens. But you also talked about numbers, so it should be pointed out and reminded that at a time when we are facing multiple crises and health and economic crises, when the pandemic of Covida-19 also had an effect on economic and social indicators, in the Republic of Croatia in December 2021 the number of employees was more than 1,573,000, which was an increase of nearly 100,000 more than in September 2016. Here, now the latest HZMO indicators this year say the number of fuses is 1 570 948, which is compared to December '21. Larger Over 36,000. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88810	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88811	Absolutely, MPs, so with the situation we had with Covid, we didn't allow as a ministry, as an institution under the Ministry, that this crisis is being re-imposed to vulnerable groups on the labour market or persons with disabilities. So in total, the number of insurance companies was really growing all the time, so in the last month of 2021, we had 30,000 insurance companies more than 2020, 1 570 000, and at the same time this summer we had the largest number of insurance companies since 2008, so in August we had over 1 600 000 insurance companies, with very low unemployment, below 8%, but with all that together with Covid measures, with over 12 billion kuna invested for 120 000 employers, all of what we often say, but it was really an undertaking, it was not forgotten about vulnerable groups, so immediately they found funds and under the NPOO to further strengthen these measures that I was talking about, and that the contractual period for people with disabilities within our measures was the first time in a two-year period, which is a huge, huge step, I believe for us, but also for employers. who, I believe, will recognize it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88812	I thank Secretary of State Vido, no more replicas, so you can return to your post. Now I'm going to call the committee's reporters if they want to take your word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88813	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, with an associate. As we had the opportunity to hear, so before us, in the urgent procedure of the Amendment Act and the additions of the Law on the Market, and the labour market is certain that one particularly sensitive area, that is, each of the smallest procedures was, however cosmetically, it will feel the most direct to the labour market and the very dynamic area of the labour market, is the place where the state of the national economy of a particular country can be assessed, since the aim of any state policy, economic policy, or positive economic policy, is also to ensure the economic stability of its citizens, i.e. to achieve the highest standard of its citizens. The situation on the labour market is rarely causally linked to the education system, i.e. the labour market is rarely hit by incompatibility or compatibility with the education system, which should be an instrument for improving the overall national economy. We see here that there is also a high and growing level of unemployment, even highly educated labour forces, which suggests there are incompatibility of the education system in the area of higher education and dynamic labour market needs. In this respect, it certainly should have a significant impact on the education system, which, as I said, is a lot of trom and complicated and does not follow the dynamic demands of employers, but I said something about, in the debate on adult education, and I would not be on it now, I would no longer be on it. According to HZZ data, €4.7 billion of support for 149 580 users has been allocated through active employment measures since 2016-2020. The plan for 2021 was 38 thousand users and 1.3 billion kuna incentives. As far as this has worked or failed, given that on today we currently have 130 653 unemployed persons, therefore, when a measure of state policy has been taken so far, it can be seen depending on the perspective, positive but also negative, however, it is definitely the fact that there are conditions for progress. The current Labour Market Act is certainly a newer date and 2018, which has therefore already suffered in 2020 due to the overall situation with the coronary virus of certain changes, when we adjusted the conditions for the use of the constant seasonal measure. Today's bill proposes to change the name of one of the rights arising from the Labour Market Act. Since the name of the employment fee suggested that the right to cease exclusively by employment is not the only case of termination of the employment law, the employment allowance changes the name and is now called financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities. As regards the material and legal protection of unemployed persons with disabilities, which is protected and its duration is not related to previous pension insurance, that is, the time spent at work of this proposal will be governed by specific conditions for the exercise of the right to financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities, taking into account the insolvency rights of users. This bill will provide material assistance to unemployed persons with disabilities who have completed education and who do not exercise other rights during unemployment. Also, unemployed persons with disabilities will be able to get a professional support service in one place and help find work on the one hand and certain material assistance on the other until work is found. This approach and efficiency in handling contributes to the quality of the service provided and the successful integration of persons with disabilities on the labour market. For all these matters, it is important to pass this law in an emergency procedure in order to do so. horizontal compliance of the rules and reduced the negative consequences for people with disabilities. We will all agree that employment is an important issue for both the individual and the society as a whole, and it includes material and immaterial aspects because pay is the basis for ensuring the existential needs of individuals and his family and affects the development of his social, cultural life and interaction while long-term unemployment is the cause of poverty. Therefore, the state must have a defined employment policy which is certainly determined by the employers' needs for labour. In order to improve the blood count of the labour market, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Act in this urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88814	We are going to a second debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Selak-Raspudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88815	The introduction has already been made to what these legal changes are all about. Therefore, it is the conditions in which the standard of unemployed persons with disabilities will be improved primarily and the compensation they will receive and through which they will receive it because of their unemployment and inability to operate on the labour market. In that sense, of course, that's the basic question that's being asked here, we've seen it's 10% minimum wage. We all know it's a small amount. That's about three hundred kunas, and it's already pointed out in an earlier debate. But what I'd like to hear is why did we come to that exact amount? As it is and whether it is complementary with other fees paid to persons with disabilities and to which it is ultimately to provide minimum living conditions, it brings an average person with disabilities when they are added or entitled to care, depending on the degree of disability or the right to a personal disability, which is proposed by the amendment of the Social Care Act to be 1750 kuna. So without that projection where we're going to see how these only three hundred kunas fit we can't give a clear assessment except for a political bluff in which we're going to say that these 10% of what sounds insufficient to us or maybe within that whole system of compensation that can be justified. I hope that at least in the final address the Secretary of State will be a little clearer on how they came to that amount and why it sounds so small. Another thing that is important to point out, I would also like Minister Aladrovic to devote more of his intellectual attention to people with disabilities. It is precisely the degree of development or democracy of society that is seen in our sensibility and struggle for the most vulnerable social groups. It's our basic mission. These topics may not be as popular, receptive and publicist as they are, but it is our basic task in life and in this House. In the last conversation, the Social Care Act has witnessed a scandalous thing where it turns out that Minister Aladrovic said two contradictory things in five minutes. First, he said and boasted that he would raise personal disability benefits to 1750 kuna, but also enable people with the most severe degree of damage, the fourth degree of damage to receive the right to care, which would lead them to an uninvited position that someone would choose which of these two rights would exercise because the right to care is far lower, to then say that they would still go towards the personal disabilityes of 1750 kuna for persons with a fourth degree of damage to my direct question. What we have discovered is that the minister was not even familiar with the content of the text he was reading in front of parliamentary deputies, but he repeated with automation what someone else wrote and there was not the change clearly introduced. And these are gaps that should not be repeated especially when we are working to improve the status of vulnerable social groups, and that is why I am stressing it now. I hope that in the future the situation will be a little better and that the minister, regardless of his primary profession, will pay more attention to people with disabilities. Secondly, here in the debate we could hear one controversy about who is telling the truth, and who is false when we talk about how much the employability of people with disabilities has improved in the past period. The unambiguous fact is that unless the Ombudsman for people with disabilities is untrue, and we are all here including the HDZ Club very much welcomed her report and together adopted it that, as she quotes, the visible growth of persons with disabilities by 2018, while the last 3 years number of people with disabilities has fallen. On the other hand, registered unemployment of people with disabilities has been growing again for the last 2 years compared to 2019 by 3%. So, this is not a question of my political assessment or some opportunism, this is a quote from the attorney general's report on people with disabilities. So I'd like it when next time my colleague Buric starts so eagerly defending HDZ policies to stick to the facts, not his own projections of what reality looks like. As for persons with disabilities and how they operate on the labour market, that is what we should be dealing with today. I would like to highlight a few of the problems they are facing because our goal is not to have more or less compensation for unemployed persons with disabilities than to train them and encourage them to engage in labour markets and to be equal members of society, to overcome their difficulties and to contribute which they can certainly give, but clearly not enough quality conditions have been created to truly demonstrate and realise their potentials on the labour market. We also see this by the devastating fact that almost 30% of them have no working experience, which shows that we obviously did not encourage them enough, found the niche in which they can contribute to work with us to improve this society and affirm their own quality, because regardless of our differences, we can all give very much to society. I have personally volunteered for several years with people with difficulties, mental difficulties in development, mostly with Down syndrome and what I have learned at the time is that they are different and that is the only thing that makes them different from us, not that they are capable or incompetent of something that is different can be better. Let's just say what was a better amount of love that they provided might have been unearthed to us volunteers. I was very happy to see them opening in Vinkovci Buba bar that was supposed to serve as an incentive for employment as a waiter for people with disabilities with Down syndrome, but unfortunately he's closed and it hasn't been realized in practice, they're different explanations, but I'd like to have more of these projects in the future. What faces people with disabilities on the labour market is double. On the one hand, we often have parents who care for them and who have difficulty accessing their jobs and acting on the labour market. On the other hand, of course, we have a problem with how they are able to engage in the labour market. When we talk about their carers in the first place, the most prominent are the problems of working parents who are also single parents of children with developmental difficulties. So they were most often warned during this pandemic period, and we should also hear more about the more detailed development of measures who know what else awaits us about this pandemic, that they could not reconcile the possibility of protecting their children because many of these institutions at the time of the pandemic were closed and their obligation to participate in the labour market, to get their pay. Another thing that is important to point out, here we have heard that this continues with a shorter break in the good direction to return and improve active employment policies for people with disabilities who were temporarily suspended in 2020. The main challenges facing people with disabilities is the inequality of the conditions that approach the labour market at all. And on the one hand, there's discrimination, and on the other hand there's a possibility of access to testing. It is a sign of the example highlighted by the Ombudsman of a lady who was employed as a housekeeper at a school, so watch out for the public institution where she was evaluated on a test that was oral in nature and where her self-esteem was also valued. We can assume that a person with some degree of disability has less, but that does not mean that he cannot do his job well, nor are there clear criteria by which we will even rank someone's self-esteem, and that, for example, has led that person to a more unfavourable position than another candidate, that we do not say Colloquially maybe the competition has been set up, but in any case the lack of inspection by the Ministry of Labour, the lack of clear criteria are what enables discrimination between people with disabilities in the workplace. The second is the conditions of access to the workplace, so we also had examples of people in wheelchairs who could not come to their workplace, and later they were ranked lower in how actively they were doing their job. So what I'm going to conclude with is that I think our focus should really be on proactive employment policies for people with disabilities, and what we're talking about today is if we're asked to support ourselves, and we certainly want to make sure that the benefits and better conditions for people with disabilities have to be clarified in detail by the overall contribution plan that is set out for people with disabilities and how this really does sound to us. minimum fee of 10% minimum wage. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88816	The third debate of the National Movement Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88817	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We have also pointed out through a series of replicas, and also in a number of positions of MPs and advocates, the fact that here today, in these amendments and additions to the Labour Market Act, we are making money available through the mouth of our secretary of state for people with disabilities, or we are regulating ways in which a person with disabilities can come to them and how he can use them later. Later in my presentation, I will say what I personally think about it, or the amount itself. But let us look at a little wider picture of the condition of disabled people in our Croatia, that is, what they look like on the labour market. What is right for us in the very beginning of these materials we have been reminded is related to some other laws, especially the Social Care Act, for which we have all recently discussed in the Croatian Parliament, almost all of us have found it difficult to implement and that some of its provisions will unfortunately remain only on paper, and in reality they will be very difficult to implement and implement. We mentioned in this law and professional orientation and education in order to increase the employability of the workforce? I'd like to remind you that a few weeks ago we discussed the Law on adult education here. We mentioned this need for lifelong education, we mentioned, of course, the introduction of vouchers, we welcomed it all by ruling and opposition. But then in the debate, we asked where and how in this Law on adult education there are persons with disabilities and pointed to the fact that perhaps in some way they needed to be positively discriminated, i.e. giving them opportunities for easier, faster and simpler access to vouchers, i.e. education throughout life and, of course, better status in the labour market in Croatia. We've got financial help here. There is no doubt that any cash aid, or any attempt to improve the condition and status of disabled persons, should be welcomed. But I will repeat, and I will remind you once again, that this increase in this 25 kuna cash contribution on average represents nothing, on average, but represents some symbolic support of 83 kuna a day with which I do not know exactly what a person with disabilities could do, or do. I'll remind you of some other aspects of life as people with disabilities. Here you know their own inclusion, i.e. including both in daily social activities, and especially in employment is very difficult. There is still no sufficient and quality incentive for disabled people. We've heard for ourselves that almost a third of them have never worked in their lives. Of course, depending on the degree of disability, or disability. For some, it has been completely and completely disabled. But let's do our best if we can understand them better. For all of you who want to understand them better, I suggest you look at the work of Dr. Car and her co-workers from the Zagreb Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in contact with our Croatian Ombudsman for persons with disabilities Mrs. Slonješak I also came to the data, so that you too look for applications that develop on Zagreb's FER, try to install them on your smartphones and you will see that you will discover and learn some new truths, some new ways about how people with disabilities access to them, how to treat them and of course how to enable them exactly what the respected representative Selak-Raspodić told them just a moment ago, that they are also entering completely equal and elevated foreheads in everyday life. Without a job, we know that in this country today means almost impossible survival, and imagine what it's like to be a person with disabilities and not have a job. Be assured that there is not a single person with disabilities in Croatia who does not want to work, because of course their work is not just a profit, they need it as a confirmation of their personality, as a confirmation of their humanity. I remind you once again of the quality of the individual, but also of the orderly society is seen in relation to the weakest, to those most needy, so I remind you once again of all of us who are going to discuss here, who we have discussed and who are now discussing that care, concern, but not patronizing but even, but human to persons with disabilities should be our daily task. We have also seen in part of this legal text that the budgets for this item are financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities provided for in the budget for this year amounting to 8 million kuna. It's sad to compare it with some even sadder numbers, of course. Here today we see a new extension of the JANAF case where it is just mentioned almost so equal amount that we are not going to charge anyone with, we will just say reportedly blacked out briefly and clearly from the Croatian state budget, i.e. from the pockets of taxpayers. Let's give these 8 million kunas to reasonable people who will be able to implement employment strategies for people with disabilities. This year 8, let's give them 10 next year, in five years we give them 20 and you'll see that the result won't go away. Persons with disabilities are equal persons and members and members of Croatian society, and as such we must treat them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88818	We will now move to the fourth debate of SDP Representatives' Club, respected colleague Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88819	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Act with the final draft of the law, and the amendment is linked to how we have already had the opportunity to hear from the Law on Social Care amendments under which the power to recognise the right to compensation for employment and to pass the right to the jurisdiction of the Employment Office is changed. The right changes the name to financial assistance for people with disabilities, and it is unfortunately the only almost authority left out of the welfare system and no longer in the welfare system. It is 2000 users for whom the Employment Office will, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law, open procedures for the recognition of the right to this financial assistance. We believe that the deadline is too long, and that the Institute should initiate a procedure for the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities within a month. We think the Employment Service has the resources for such an organization and that it is indeed in the interest of the end-user. As regards the discharge of the social care system, we did not do much for the welfare system, but users are close to systems and services that make sense to compensate for employment or financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities, so it does come true at the Employment Office. The same way we could have heard, as well as in the debate on the Social Care Act, that the right to compensation for assistance and care and the right to a personal disability could also be moved and, for example, moved to the jurisdiction of the pension system where it was once achieved, especially now when there will be no censorship and the right will depend solely on the finding of the body of art. Such a solution can be written by a lawyer in any system, and then a social worker could do the work of assisting persons in the need of the rules of the profession using all the resources of the local community. We are talking about 130,000 users who would pass the administration of rights into another system, and help and support would continue to be achieved in the welfare system. For people with disabilities, it is necessary to ensure the right to an independent life through activities aimed at hiring persons with disabilities and strengthening social inclusion. Through this social care reform, the ministry did not ensure strengthening social inclusion, as the system further moved away from the users. But back to the fee for unemployed persons with disabilities that should certainly be higher and 375 kuna is certainly not enough, and this law would miss and better define, as well as the purpose of keeping track of what we want to achieve with that fee. It is about users, persons with disabilities, or a child with developmental difficulties, which also has physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment established on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. The conditions for receiving such compensation are also the application in the record of the Employment Office. According to the record of the Employment Office, we have, according to the Croatian Institute for Public Health since September 2021, 586 thousand 153 persons living in Croatia with disabilities of which 57% are men and 43% women, thus making up about 14.4 total population. The highest number of people with disabilities is 45% at the age of 20 to 64, while 44% of people in the age group are over 65 years old. The number of persons with disabilities recorded in an eyewitness of persons with disabilities is 11 818 which is also a small number given the total number of persons with disabilities aged 217 578. If people with disabilities are often victims of discrimination at work, and the main reason for discrimination is that their working conditions are not adapted to their needs, or tailored to individual needs of persons with disabilities, and are unable to present their employer with their skills and skills. We also witnessed last year the exploitation of people with disabilities at work, and cases also mean payouts. The number of unregistered persons with disabilities at the Employment Service as an unemployed person is 6179 and the highest number is those who have completed high school up to three years, 58% of them as well as the completed four-year school 19%. The government adopted a long-awaited National Equalisation Plan for people with disabilities for the period from 2021 to 2027 and an Action Plan for the period from 2021 to 2024 at the end of last year, and that period was to be covered by the overall 2021, which means that all measures and plans and, in this case, late. In particular, it is important to specify the specific objective of number two in the action plan where it is said that there is a need to improve the employment system of persons with disabilities. An active employment policy should be improved, and employers should be kept informed of the needs and opportunities of persons with disabilities in order to enable them to be actively participated on the labour market. According to the Ombudsman's reports, the right to take advantage of public sector employment is inaccessible and the right to advantage from employment does not serve its purpose. The largest number of complaints addressed to the Ombudsman concerns precisely the inability to exercise the right of advantage in employment. According to the report, the supervisory authorities generally state that the person has not reached the same number of points as the best candidate, and that this is the reason why the right cannot be exercised. However, the background is much more complex. Candidates with disabilities in many cases do not compete in equal terms with other candidates, which ultimately leads to poor results and testing and entails the inability to exercise this right. Realising the right to an independent life, employment, accessibility and social inclusion are the prerequisites for an active and quality life of people with disabilities. The process of deinstitutionalisation and home transformation goes too slowly and is hardly mentioned at all. Organized housing and residential communities are not further developed and the needs of disabled persons are not monitored, so we have 2338 people with disabilities who use personal assistant service while 9,184 people are located in social care homes and 856 people are in an organized apartment. Persons with disabilities should be supported in the local community using all community resources, available civil sector and social care services. The ministry is obliged to ensure that this financial assistance for people with disabilities is short-term, that people who receive fees for years, for 10 years, do not manage to get a job, and in the meantime, their health situation is getting worse and become users of some other benefits with greater disability. The SDP club will support this law because we believe that the money aid for the unemployed belongs to the competent employment office, but we are looking for greater employment in the field of employment of disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88820	Thank you, too. We are going to the 5th debate of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected colleague of Sablar-Dračevac's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88821	I would like to thank the President, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Social Democrats Club will support the adoption of this law of a monetary aid measure for people with disabilities. It is important that the law be passed together with the social care law package, and in this way there will be no vacuum or employment departments will assume their responsibility. The labour market law provides for the following unemployment rights, job insurance and pension insurance, unemployment insurance, cash aid and transport costs during education and training at the workplace and one-time cash assistance and travel and moving costs. Now, since the money for unemployed people with disabilities is so low, I'm interested in what these other measures are like. You told us 1,000 kuna was a taxi ride. The final proposal of the Social Care Act proposes to decide on that law by the HZZ in accordance with the employment rules. According to the current Social Care Act, employment benefits are the right of a child with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities whose physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment has been established on the basis of findings and opinions of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. At this point we have about 2,000 users and so far the fee has been 350 kuna. The fee rises to 375 kuna and, if I understand correctly, we have another 6,000 people registered at the Employment Office. Therefore, persons with disabilities are secured this number until employment. Unemployed people with disabilities will be able to get a professional support service in one place, help find work on the one hand, and some material help from the other passionate. By that approach, efficiency in handling contributes to the quality of service provision and successful integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market, and we aim to include persons with disabilities in work and social activities, or the reform of the social care system that requires this scarisontal harmonisation of the rules. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The following shall be added in Article 72(2): the procedure for the exercise of the right to financial assistance referred to in Article 2(1): 70.a. This law shall be initiated at the request of an unemployed person with disabilities. And I'm just wondering if it could be automatism. It is a small number of people, as we have already cited, and we are a social state that takes care of its socially endangered citizens. Surely here, an important role will be played by associations that will warn their members about their rights, but if they are not in the group who will warn, who will warn our disabled about their rights. And from experience, we know that not in so long ago, officials were given an instruction that, as users do not, they should not be warned of their right. They would therefore like to see this right gained by automation, as soon as a disabled person or even if they are asked to apply to the Employment Service because they need to be warned about it. This is a good step and we at the club will certainly support this, but I certainly must warn of another phenomenon in the society that is happening. So people with disabilities who have acquired disability, so they are not employed on the basis of disability, but during life and work they have become ill and become disabled have major problems. Even in highly sophisticated institutions with an average high level of expertise, unfortunately these persons are discriminated against and are in a very difficult position. Once again, we will support this, although we believe that fees are not enough, that even if they should allow a disabled person to prepare quality for active job-seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88822	Thank you. 6th debate of HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88823	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we are here today to discuss the Labour Market Act because a recent social reform has happened that we have removed compensation from the Social Care Act for employment in the Labour Market Act. It was something that had to be done because the fee to employment for many years was in a system where it didn't belong. Today we hear about this fee, that it may be small, that it should be bigger but don't forget that in the welfare system we have raised the compensation that is most important for people with disabilities, which is a personal disability, that we have abolished the property and income price. So on Friday, we will vote on the Social Care Act, which will mean for people with disabilities, I would not say one but certainly two steps forward. I don't say this myself, many will say that I am saying this because I am defending the Prime Minister, the ruling majority, etc., but people with disabilities are expressing satisfaction with this reform. Furthermore, what is extremely important about this compensation is that people with disabilities receive it during unemployment. So, when unemployed, no matter how much they worked or didn't work. Therefore, after completing education and that this fee will be granted to persons with disabilities even with a personal disability. That is why we have abolished the censorship so that people with disabilities can make other benefits as well as those, so that personal disability is not an obstacle to any compensation, pension, salary, etc. We hear here today that people with disabilities should be more employed, in order for others to do it a little better, but I have to tell you that there are a little less than 12,000 people in the register of people with disabilities. Many will say that this is little, perhaps, relatively, but you must know that at the time of the pandemic, the number of people with disabilities has not been reduced, that this government has provided funds for all other workers for the preservation of jobs and for people with disabilities. No disabled person has been fired or even those employers who are having a difficult time working at this time of the pandemic. The Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has enabled employers, therefore also those who are protective or integral, and so on to all other employers that they can in some way preserve jobs for people with disabilities so that people with disabilities can not be brought back to the employment office from which we know that let's say they've been relatively difficult to leave so far. Very, therefore, in 2018, the government then abolished the censorship when it came to pay to introduce the largest number of people with disabilities into the world of work and it was successfully done. Most people with disabilities decided to work because he knew that they would have a personal disability and no longer had that feeling of aha, which is safer for me to keep. All those who talk here today about how they would hire, how they would work, I'd be happy to hear them come to power. Don't forget that all the measures this government has taken for people with disabilities were in agreement with them. There were also those who were in power so they didn't increase fees for people with disabilities, and this government has been three times in the last four years. Secretary of State, I will ask you to, behold, after we have passed these amendments and supplemented the law to consider the fact that once again, we may very soon have to go into the amendments and supplements, and because of the compensation for the parents of the foster parents, which could not have been resolved now by this Law, these amendments, because of the parallel we have brought, has parallelly entered this Law into the procedure, while the Social Care Act has already been said so in the debate, and that is that the parent of the guardians, when, after the death of the child, when they are still in working age, they can receive compensation until, at least one part of the time, until they are able to find a job, they have to receive that compensation. We agreed that we could not resolve this through the social care system, but that these people should exercise their rights during unemployment, so I ask you to, here with the minister, and agree that we should move on as soon as possible to these changes. I wish that today, on the other hand, here, colleagues and colleagues would argue affirmably, not just to get political points on people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88824	Thank you, too. Seven. The debate, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the esteemed colleague of Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88825	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is before us in the emergency procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Act. The emergency procedure is for the simple reason that, in the opening explanation of this Act, it states that it is in line with the amendments to the law, i.e. the new Social Welfare Act, which will be held together on Friday, so that they would not obviously have an empty walk in the whole, related to a particular problem. We at the Club of the Centre and GLAS appreciate that it is extremely good that the problem of unemployed people with disabilities is really solved where it is to be solved, which is in the employment offices for the simple reason, and in this Law. What is well done and we never have a problem commending what is well done, we never engage in politics so that we can attack and criticize something just to attack and when something is done well, we make it clear and say it. What has been well done and what we have warned about for years, and this will be after Friday and after the vote, which is the abolition of property and income censorship. It is a step that is related to persons with disabilities made because it is in this way, you are actually giving at least equal chances to persons with disabilities, as if they do not have this disability because it is not a subject, therefore, that income property censorship which was often a limiting factor, limiting the factor when you have the disability to you and what is important to the state, to make the system, to make measures, to make frames, that this limiting factor is not. That's why we think that no matter what we think about the Social Welfare Act, and we're going to show it through the vote and through that set, we think that what we're doing is well done is what we're going to do for, so HZZ for the simple reason, and that's how you actually show what the subject is. The topic is to hire people with disabilities, the theme is that they, have the same chances on the labour market or at least equal chances on the labour market and really include them. I wouldn't like it, and we wouldn't want it to be just a form. You know, you've been in one resistor now, so we're, now we're going to move from one resistor to another resistor, and then by switching and form, we're going to not satisfy the contents. What's important, that's what I said in the replica, that's what I said to the secretary of state, I said there should now be a set of measures and a set of other things for the right to hire people with disabilities, and somehow I always think we should start from ourselves. We have to ask ourselves a little bit and see what we've done here and what we do when we hire people in the Parliament, in the body where we sit and work. In the government, in the ministry bodies, we need to take care of everything together. What seems to me would be incomparably better, which is that this is the deadline that's in art. 5 in the transitional and final provisions said that the Office is obliged within 6 months of entering this.../incomprehensible/... The law under official duty shall initiate procedures for the recognition of law. It seems to me that, therefore, it is the users of the employment fee, I think that this deadline should be reduced or the content does not always follow the form. So, if it was known, and it was known that there was an idea that regarding persons with disabilities and related to that they were using a certain fee to get it settled in the employment office, then they were supposed to sit down together with the employment office and see if they were prepared for it in terms of some other things where that, I wouldn't say an additional job, I would say some new job. So what you should have done to see with them how realistic it is and how realistic the deadlines are, because 6 months when you look at the eternity of some laws or something else isn't very much, but 6 months is quite a long period, it seems to us that a period that should be a shorter month or 2 should be absolutely more acceptable, but to that, the answer to that question certainly can't be given by me from this pay phone, the answer to that question should be given by seductions. That means that, I suppose, there was some kind of deal at the level and with HZZ that they were aware that now one part, the formal part, goes into their jurisdiction, that they would have to do something and see if they were teamed up enough, if they had enough knowledge and experience. I suppose they have to do that. When it comes to people with disabilities you and here see that a lot of clubs always appear for discussion, we discuss whatever side of this pay phone we sit on if there are some good things and if you can help someone, if you can help them, we can always support it and always say ok it would be better if it was a little more but this is enough too. What we all said in the debate, we pointed to this fee, we pointed out that it was actually a relatively small increase because, as explained by this law, the promoter said that at an annual level you have about 2,000 users and that the fee so far was 350 kuna per month, and now there will be 375 kuna per month, so an increase of 25 kuna. It seems to us that this would be incomparably better if it were a different increase, but the secretary of state has already said something in his reply to the replica. And in conclusion, when the bill comes to help our fellow citizens and in those small and smallest measures, we are the ones who say okay, you're going well, something's done, but it's always gotta be the one, but it's always gotta be the one to point things out. So this law you should have, you should have agreed on all the elements of its rapid implementation, you did not agree, so you decided for 6 months, but what is essential, which is what we really do live in some strange times, times in which the first news that everyone in the paper or in the media is the subject of the crown as far as it is infected, is not infected, whether the oxytron will turn into a really ordinary cold or not, but we have to provide conditions and at such times for normal functioning, and if these amendments and additions to the laws of persons with disabilities in any way help we will support it. We seem to have some help here, but paper, paper can put up with anything and put up with anything, let's see in reality. In reality, there should be certain programs, there must be certain projects, but I repeat, it seems to me that we should always go from ourselves and see when employment is done in state bodies really respecting what the law has and otherwise prescribed and told us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88826	We now move on to 8 debates, respected colleague Katarina Peović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88827	Thank you. First of all, I have to note that Minister Aladrovic is bypassing the council in a large port because he sends his state secretaries to many laws even more important than this. It seems to me that the reason for this and the public's reaction to his work and the work I will warn the largest ministry by the way and that it avoids dealing with MPs and MPs here, and we can understand it, so in light of this, defeating the numbers of evicts, which have very much to do with the status of work and labour rights and employment opportunities, and research shows that, above all, human beings, the departure of people is an inability to work. As far as the subject goes, the famous labour market is clearly not prone to people with disabilities. According to the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities in previous years during the pandemic, especially the Covid-19 virus, there has been a significant collapse of human rights for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. The study also says that the Ombudsman's report also says that persons with disabilities are not equally represented on the labour market. But here I will also say that we understand it means that, because of the specific situation, there is also a difficult situation and that this report is particularly about the mobility sphere and in this proposal changes and complements it is meant to solve whether or not. But what is crucial and what I would say is even in this report shows a lack of understanding and a dangerous confabulation is that people with disabilities are not in conflict with other workers and workers, but it is that we have one of the lowest employment rates and that there is really too little chance of employment. So it's not just that they're in an unequal position, we really have too few jobs, or we're at the very least, we're one of the worst employment rates in Europe, we're only worse than Greece and Italy. So if we have such a low employment rate, then we can't expect people with disabilities to be easily admitted to it, as they say, the world of the labour market, and I have to say that the expression of the labour market itself is extremely insensitive because it orders and heats up there, means that social Darwinism is one of the opposite because it suggests that we are all on a market, that we should offer our skills, and that the market will realistically assess who is and who is not able to get a job, and we ignore what puts everything in a subordination position, and persons with disabilities and pensioners and unemployed, which is that we are actually very weak towards that means offering jobs. We don't have quality, especially high-quality and well-paid jobs because we have to take into account that we work for 37% of the salary of a Western European worker, so the sociopathic statements are that people don't want to get a job, that there are jobs because underpaid and poor jobs you can't accuse people of not accepting them. Therefore, I would warn here that social Darwinism is skipping and that it is fostering means co-operation and solidarity, and not what this term itself encourages, which is a negative solidarity and mutual competence between those who should enter this famous, yes, labour market. As for persons with disabilities, those who are here also said that this is not enough, means just giving money to unemployed persons with disabilities, that they should be helped to employ, of course, that is, but we have to keep in mind and keep in mind that fact how many jobs we actually have, and we don't have them and that's why this fee rains in the face of people with disabilities, an increase in that fee means 25 kuna, not that it's enough, but that fee alone from 350 kuna that rises to 375 kuna is completely insufficient and we can't say, you need people to hire, it's not an important fee, if we have in mind how bad we are at that employment rate in Europe, is it? So no group should be singled out, neither persons with disabilities nor pensioners nor unemployed, they're all in the same problem, and it's not, as the Secretary of State said, the truth, meaning a series of things that are said here, so first of all I'm going to say, we're just seeing means with this Law, and we're going to see with a series of other laws how important the minimum wage is. The minimum wage, so here is the minimum wage fee, you will see at the Labour Act, there will be the right of platform workers to minimum wage, etc., so in a series of laws we will have a minimum wage bond, and we have, so we are in a group of 10 countries in Europe that have the lowest minimum wage, which is the most, the weakest growth in the last 10 years, and then we have the secretary of state to answer that, not true, our minimum wage, its growth was, and that fellow Buric often repeats, one of the biggest last year. Yeah, but compared to what? What are the minimum wages in other countries of Europe, and how much has it been growing in the last 10 years? Yes, true, it grew last year, but it is insufficient, it is insufficient, and the best illustration of how rapid we have, allegedly, is whether, the growth of minimum wage is a comparison with the minimum salary in Slovenia that is in the range of our average salary. So you raise our minimum wage to the average salary level and then we'll talk about that fee. Why don't we raise the minimum wage that way, and the minimum wage becomes a reference point, so it's important to raise the minimum wage significantly, not to drop what happens every year, is it. And then when you say good, here's my colleague Lukacic mentioned it, that all those who would raise those fees, and if they came to power then they wouldn't do anything, it's not true, pal, it's not true that we wouldn't do anything. So those who accuse HDZ of racing to the bottom, means to achieve low labour competitiveness understand the problem and solve or at least face this problem, but HDZ has chosen, has chosen this race towards the bottom, has chosen to be a country and on the peripheries, and this economic periphery of Europe, to concentrate on service activities with a low value added rate and to shut down our industry and when Minister Horvat again shuts down the last levers and opportunities of economic development, from the shipyard to the textile industry that has been destroyed, but could have been in better status since it was in better status... As well as shipbuilding, then they consciously decide to put us at the beginning of Europe and market competitiveness to achieve only a low labour price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you can't even raise fees, you can't open jobs, you can't have socially sensitive measures, and then, colleagues and colleagues say, yeah, those who would come to power, that, they can agree, would probably make a lot of those who would come to power do the same thing, but not all of them. Not all of them. So, first of all, we should face the race towards the bottom of the HDZ, and then, of course, people with disabilities are in an even worse position, and I welcome, of course, as everyone has welcomed some reforms, that, first of all, there is greater mobility, which can certainly help people with disabilities, but it is a drop in the sea and we are actually talking here about measures that will not affect the employability of people, nor the general picture nor their standard of living, because we are actually not engaged, and that is why this famous labour market so beautifully illustrates our attitude towards it, or the attitude of the ruling ones, we are actually not dealing with solving fundamental human needs, but we are working, which is fundamental and fundamentally human right, and pay should be a fee from which the worker can reasonably live as it says in the Constitution. We work, labour rights are placed on the market where individuals are opposing each other and they have to fight it and they have to fight it and then it looks like that positive discrimination is crucial. No, that positive discrimination is required of course in people with disabilities, but it is not crucial. It is crucial to create new jobs, to ensure basic living conditions for everyone, not this Darwinist principle that we should turn to each other as rivals, means instead of competenceing co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88828	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88829	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. The fact is that people with disabilities are really a vulnerable group and hardly employs a group in our society, perhaps the most difficult working group. But it is also a fact that so far the legal acts and proposals have not received the results that we would all like, which is that the number of people with disabilities at the Employment Service or the labour market is as small as possible. It's something reduced, but it's a game of numbers, given that our unemployment rate is dropping every day, not because the growing number of employees is proportional to it, but because more and more people are leaving this country. In particular, however, it would refer here to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and to the Regulation laying down the employment quota for persons with disabilities. In accordance with these laws and regulations, all companies have to employ a certain number of people with disabilities either in private or in public who have more than 20 employees. And the secretary of state said that there are 9,000 of these entities, that 2/3 unfortunately do not adhere to these legal decisions or that they pay certain pences and pay into the state budget. Now, how do you solve that? In fact, we have these two problems, on the one hand we can solve by increasing these pens or fees, and on the other hand we have a problem and many employers. I talked to some people, they say they have a much bigger problem with the fact that when creating a job for a person with disabilities they have to adapt all conditions according to the Office of Arts. Depending on the degree of disability, this person must have a suitable working table, must have meaning certain approaches for disabled people, must have a bathroom for disabled people, must have certain stairs, everything depends naturally on the degree of disability, and it is not a problem when people with disabilities have a minor degree of physical damage, but it creates a certain or major problem when they are disabled with a high degree of physical impairment. Namely, and then there are employers who are even more willing and willing to pay for those foams than to hire that person. On the other hand, however, the employer should also think about getting some additional stimulation, meaning past these pens if the person with disabilities is employed, and it is also very sad or embarrassing that we, in addition to this number of units of local and regional self-government, in addition to this number of public services, have almost 6,000 persons with disabilities, or that public services do not comply with this law. It's defeat means our administration. So if all units of local self-government, cities, and there are even municipalities with more than 20 employees, we would now have only a few hundred people with disabilities at the Employment Service and that's the problem. So we need to look at how this problem is solved and how to force those who live primarily from the state budget to stick to the legal proposals that were passed here in HS. And this way, I'd say he'd look back on that article. 70.a. c. 4, which is that money aid for unemployed persons with disabilities is determined at 10% minimum wage in net amount. Here are my colleagues before me who have said that there is indeed one miserable amount in question, and that even in my opinion is the demeaning and self-respecting of those people. We know that when it is summed up that these aren't small amounts, but we still need to think about this fee being drastically larger than 375 kunas, you can't just survive today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88830	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ivana Kekin in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88831	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, MPs. So, while this proposal is about amending and supplementing the Labour Market Act, first of all, I will take advantage of this opportunity to highlight the deep problem of our labour market that the negative effects show already today, and even more drastic consequences will show in the future. The census results in a devastating fact that Croatia has lost nearly 400,000 people in the last 10 years. All relevant research, but also all anecdotal examples and all those people we know, all of us, are actually most often talking about people leaving because of corruption and clientism, because of employment through a relationship, because of employment exclusively with the help of a party card, but also because of inadequate salaries and inadequate working conditions. Who's responsible for this situation? Well, in the last five years anyway, Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ. Of course, people go to EU countries because they can, but rarely among them, they would leave their town, their village, their family, their lifestyle, their acquaintances if they hadn't felt compelled to do so. And that's the defeat of Andrej Plenkovic. So tens and tens of thousands of young people have gone back five years, and he tells us that the problem is only in our experience. So the only problem is that as we perceive it, we should be more optimistic, look at the glass as half full and mostly its cynical message comes down to the thought positively. This convinces us that we have a fantastic growth in GDP as if when citizens go to the store themselves don't see how much their salary is less worth, and as if, in the future, GDP growth is talking about anything other than that, before that, it was one of the deepest in the EU in 2020, and then growth followed. But in fact, the citizens' standard tells us the amount of GDP per capita, and here we are consistently at the bottom of the EU, and there is no indication that this will actually change while HDZ is in power. In fact, it's a simple statistical blurring of the eyes, and besides citizens, pessimistic or optimistic, I can see for myself whether they were better at it 2 or 3 years ago than they are today. The HDZ actually captured this country and we have to get rid of it if we want to succeed, be the country where our children will want to live, in which some of the people who went to go back and eventually, some third people will want to move in. When it comes to population drains, it is important to note that it is only a number. So, the problem isn't just that we, with 4.5 million, fell to 3.8 million problems, first of all in who's leaving us. So, our entire families are leaving, we're leaving young couples, so with such a decline of birth rate as we have, and with such an outflow of a working-active population, we're threatening serious aging already in the old population, which actually means the full unsustainability of the pension system, the complete unsustainability of the health system, the complete unsustainability of the education system. So, all those citizens whose existence and health and education, etc. depending on the payments of the working population are directly at risk. According to the latest data we have on an insurance company in the pension system, we have 1.28 workers on one of the pensioners. It's completely unsustainable. We don't have that situation right now, and we'll have even less to pay off adequate pensions or for a quality health care system. And this is the biggest tragedy of these results and it is mostly the responsibility of HDZ, and in the last 5 years the responsibility of Plenkovic's HDZ. The additional problem is that HDZ created a system that has actually removed many relatively young people from the labour market. War veterans. Thus, he permanently removed them from the labour market, and thus further downgraded the share of employees of the working-age population. And this ratio of employees and inactive populations is holding us back because then the taxes paid can't actually be invested in the previously mentioned education, in research, in development, in infrastructure, in health, etc. So the goal of each government should actually be the key should be to increase the number of employees compared to the number of those who are retired. The measures that should be applied first refer to investing in people who are actually early retired and in other ways removed from the labour market to motivate them and encourage them to actually return to the world of work. Another option that is equally important is to improve the migration balance. So make sure that fewer people leave Croatia and ensure that most people come to live in Croatia. Without that, we can't really stop this negative trend. But it is important to look at the causes, so it is also important to see why people in Croatia are paid to leave the labour market early and live on low social benefits and small pensions more than work for wages. So, first of all, because working conditions are insecure and unworthy. So it's something that's been going on since the very beginning of this country, since the '90s, from the idea of 200 wealthy families where over 30 years the gap has been deepening between owners and workers. And of course this does not apply to all entrepreneurs and, of course, especially among the new generations, this relationship is changing, but the fact that the relationship to employment, according to the workers' organisation, towards the trade unions in Croatia is extremely bad. And it's also something that those who have gone constantly repeat. That in Ireland and Germany they value them, that they thrive in their work if they work well, that they live with dignity on their salary and that they feel like respected members of the collective. The prime minister also said when he spoke about the census that the Western European countries compensated for the fall of birth by moving in, but that Croatia is not in the situation yet. What does it mean that Croatia is not in this situation? Does this mean that we are a country that people do not want to move to or that means that we are not actually open to people who would like to come to Croatia. In both cases, the government is responsible because the government is actually tasked with creating a country where people will want to return to or to which people will move and to create and open a country for those who would come and contribute. Speaking on the same topic, Croatian Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic had a truly xenophobic statement that makes it a Croatian interest to have our own country in which Croats live to the greatest extent. So, what does that mean? Well, of course, most Croatians will live in Croatia, but why don't we open up to others if there are people who want to come, why don't we take some of them because unfortunately with the best will, which is not there, with the best support they don't have, and with the best infrastructure that isn't, we'll also have a hard time turning the birth rate and we'll find it hard to achieve baby boom and mass return of those who have gone. If that were the case if we were to talk about the problem of the ratio of the working population and the pensioners, he would start to improve by about 18 years. If we don't want to break the pension system, if we don't want to break the health system, if we don't want even lower and poorer pensions than those that our pensioners now have. If we do not want to raise the retirement age, which is all we do not want to open for some of the people who would like to move to Croatia is certainly one of the key options and it must be started by public debate. We must, of course, make all the necessary conditions for people to stay in Croatia, that they want to return to Croatia and that they want to have children in Croatia. This means providing better conditions, better infrastructure, better opportunities, quality kindergartens, quality schools, building public housing, helping young people to resolve their housing issues and ensure better working conditions and decent wages. If we create such conditions and succeed in fighting corruption, then many will return not because the government will give them the money they plan, then people will want to stay here and have children, and the third will want to move in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88832	You, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Mr. Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88833	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I noticed that you did not follow what your colleague is saying. Of course, Article 238 of her colleague did not say a single word about the agenda point, not a single word. She's had her nine minutes of free speech on some subject who knows which one. But she also managed to touch the Croatian veterans who she was wronged to retire. They're not retired veterans, they're wartime military disabled respected colleagues, and that's an extremely important difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88834	Time, Mr. Zekanovic. Mr. Zekanovic, it was a replica. You have a warning. Mr. Silvano Hrelja will now speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88835	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot going on in the debate on this subject. I could say a lot of things. First of all, maybe the title of this law bothers me because it's the labour market. I'd rather talk about a world of work that's what it is, but we didn't bring people into the position of goods, to determine the price. But that's how it is, we have such a law and we have content to discuss. So we can not touch the pension system, nor the minimum wage, but touch and solve one in a global sense a small problem for Croatian society, and a big problem for the people that this law covers. They are estimated by 2,000 young people, persons with disabilities after completing primary, secondary vocational, higher, higher, high schools who have done their best in accordance with their psychophysical abilities to be educated, to prepare for a normal life even though they and their parents are also aware that their whole life will be weaker in the world of work but have all worked together with their parents to finish certain schools and to be able to do something, that they feel equal in this society. They have so far received this cash compensation through the Centre for Social Care 350 kuna per month which is not some fee we can agree on, so we can all bet that in the future it increases to 20 and more percent if the measure is minimum wage but not all in this money. The essence of these changes is not money. The main thing is the new positions of these young people, the new position and their position at the Employment Service. So, the Employment Service is an institution that is bound to seek, so intensively look for a job that corresponds to skills, acquired knowledge, skills and psychophysical abilities of people with disabilities, so these young people. So, they are and will be and will receive compensation for disability, but they will be and are on their burden; not on the burden of concern I would say before, for they cannot be burdened, but on the care and life of their parents. Now, this law solves something else. Positively puts them in a positive, good position that they do not have to be themselves active jobseekers, but if they succeed in doing something, they may not be satisfied again returning to the Employment Service, again for compensation. Therefore, there is no time-limited fee and during the duration and search for work as well as during temporary and occasional employment, they have a pension insurance. So, parents have a serious concern about what will happen to them when they die, with their children, with a person with disabilities essentially solved. I know that worry because I talk to them, people like that, and it really matters to all parents who have children, people with disabilities who will be with them after I leave. Which means all my assets if they don't have any material security, if they don't have a minimum of something that can be placed in an institution and that it can be paid. Otherwise I hear all kinds of discussions here. Of course never fighting to hire people with disabilities is enough. So what we have done I think that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in continuity among all governments is getting little positive shifts, but the sensitivity of society to help those who are weaker, who are unequal in the world of work is not developing as quickly as we can change legislation. I am an active participant for the opening of an employment workshop for people with disabilities, of which there is a 17-year-old in Pula called "Teko Nova" on the ruins of the old company for the employment of people with disabilities. For many years or so, it took me a long time to engage in this problem of the local self-government unit and to learn the same thing that in their work departments orders for their utility companies, for some of their own even souvenirs that it is useful to order without competition to order directly with these people, to make orders for these jobs and to make them do so, to grant financial donations for the business of these companies in a proportionate part as well as the state or state fund. And only when it's helped from all sides is it makes sense and it can survive in the long run. There's no economic bill, no profit. We need to be aware that there are institutions, there are institutions where to work, that we need to motivate people to work to feel valuable, that they have earned their wages, and that there is no profit, that there is no purchase of Mercedes in six months of some landlord, etc., but that there is something that is humane, something that is taking care of the dignity and dignity of weaker, different, which are primarily persons with disabilities. That consciousness in one society is very difficult to go through, and it's not like we're all talking about it. It wouldn't be enough for us to promote it. Therefore, I ask you to welcome this bill, not from the level of compensation but from the total content it brings to the lives of young people with disabilities, students after finishing high school or primary school, because we have here that can be included after 15 years means after the primary school, high school that they have certain security and that someone, which is the state institution is actively looking for a job, were it occasional, temporary jobs, for a certain time, indefinitely, but when that job stops they are returning to the office, receive that fee and still the institution is looking for the job for them again. I think it is for those young people who are estimated to have about 2,000 large steps, and for Croatian society is no burden but one human move. That's why the HNS club, HSU and independent MPs will support this bill, and I believe it will pass in this House of the High unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88836	Thank you, too. We move to individual debates, the first Mrs. Marija Selak Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88837	In the meantime, I have to say that I'm a little shocked by the debate that was on behalf of the club, too. Otherwise, I have no special need to comment on the discussions of other clubs, but if we speak here or from this pay phone at least I did, we call on Minister Aladrović not to read or focus on the content of his proposals for the Social Care Act relating to persons with disabilities. And I expect him to be better prepared to discuss and focus on the problems of people with disabilities that this same opposition, though not to me, but some other members of the opposition come to one of the few occasions where we have the opportunity to point out the difficulties faced by persons with disabilities in the labour market and not to mention in any word persons with disabilities in their discussion in the name of the club, rather than in general talking about the labour market, because they probably didn't even open the law, but they saw its title, which, by the way, is wrongly suggestive because they're not talking about the labour market as they are often the case with the law, but they're talking about fees for unemployed persons with disabilities. Therefore, the focus of the Law on persons with disabilities and their finding on the labour market. If we are such an opposition, then we have no surprise that HDZ is receiving one election from another, so we should show by example that we should at least open up if we do not read in detail and prepare the laws that are part of our parliamentary debates. Or perhaps to colleagues from We can people with disabilities are not at all important and are not in the focus of their policies, but here they are publicly declared otherwise. As for some of the things that I would like to point out in this individual debate in the first place, I will repeat that I expect the minister to explain to us in more detail this amount of compensation that fits the entire budget of the unemployed person with disabilities given the degree of damage and all the other fees she receives to see if what is at the level, so the primary school allowance can say, something that we can do within the assembly, and I am open to arguments because I believe that we all care about the HDZ to correct the situation of persons with disabilities. Is this 10% minimum wage something that we can reasonably support or is what it sounds like, and it's far from enough to allow people with disabilities to survive. I hope the Secretary of State will answer that question, and then we can determine our position on this bill. Because no matter what else this law discusses, however, the key question is whether the material status of unemployed people with disabilities will improve and how much they will eventually get. What I still expect is to see what kind of package of measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken along with the Civil Protection Centre, which would ensure that parents, employees of parents with developmental difficulties and disability are away from work and provide financial security so that they can continue to take care of their children. Measures, active employment measures as we have heard will continue but should be improved. As for the discrimination in the workplace I spoke on behalf of the club, we are interested in whether there has been a shift in the cooperation policy of the Ministry of Labour and the competent employment inspection because we could see from the attorney's report that it was not the best way to determine all the discrimination that people with disabilities are going through in the employment process and which is why they do not get the jobs they should get. We're witnessing a fall in the employment of people with disabilities. That's what I was talking about. Active employment policies benefit 1,000 people in 2020 with disabilities, so we should consider including a greater number of people with disabilities in these policies. And what you should also hear is whether there has been a shift in the policies of reasonable job adjustment that people with disabilities can show their potential in the institutions where they are employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88838	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88839	Dear colleagues, here I am pleased that you too have noticed what I have also noticed that my colleague Kekin has spoken completely off the subject and I am sorry that another case has happened when the president, or chairing in this case Mr. Radin, instead of giving a warning to his colleague because he is not talking about the subject, and he has not said a word about the subject, but he has given a warning to me that I warned her and him that she spoke out of subject. So here's this opportunity I'm using to once again warn the respected vice president and announce that I'm going to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because I think you've made a mistake here, that is, on purpose, what you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88840	I'll give you my word, Mrs. Selak-Raspadic, but I'm obliged to say this to anyone here who goes beyond the point of warning, because that's all I'd do. Mrs Selak-Raspudic gave a political answer on this, not calling for a Rules of Procedure, a political response. So a particular party has no sensitivity to a particular topic. It's called politics, so learn a little. Here you go, Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88841	I won't be hypocritical, and I don't think we should all stick to the subject as a drunk float, we often turn around, we often choose some parts that seem more important to us and that are broader in terms of which we want both legal and political. However, in the situation where we are talking about the situation of an extremely vulnerable group, which is not only people with disabilities but unemployed persons with disabilities who are twice vulnerable and in a double-invisible situation because they are under extreme social pressure, I must say at the very least that I express my surprise that someone does not even mention it in their debate on behalf of the club, from which I read what is too often the case, and accepts and radical proportions, which is that someone does not even open a law that is on the agenda. You don't have to hold the debate on behalf of the club if you don't go a little bit ready and there's nothing to say on the subject But pretending to have something to say, and skipping people with disabilities is really a worrying political message. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mrs. Rasdic, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88842	Thank you. Thank you. We've already said that. Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88843	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Selak-Raspadic, I am pleased that you have returned the debate to the point. What to expect from the platform "We Can", so-called "We Can", so-called "We Can". platforms because it does not exist in the Political Party Act. There are coalitions, I don't know what a platform is, but good. They are called who are engaged in the return of Marshal Tito's Square to Zagreb. I'm not surprised by their debate, but you've pointed out one very good thing and that's something we really need to take care of, which is working conditions. And not only the working conditions but also the conditions that make it difficult for people with disabilities to approach a number of institutions that are not solved and that is something that should be taken into account, that is something that should be dealt with to facilitate access to the labour market, but also the everyday life of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88844	Thank you very much. Just a moment to ask the breach of the Rules of Procedure is coming before the answer or after? Here you go, Mr. Bauk's breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Bukarica raider: Before.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter I would like to defend my colleagues from the "We Can" platform due to historical truth and record, which is what they call a party, the name of a political party under the Law on political parties because the idea of returning the name of the market is Marshal Tito, who has been changed as a result of the political agreement of the unencipile. It's not their idea, it's our idea, so here's what I'm asking you to criticise us for, not them. They have a lot to criticize them for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88846	Thank you for the clarification. And of course you know for yourself that it was a replica and that you have a warning. Here you go, Mrs. Selak-Raspudic. .../ A break-in on the side, you don't understand. Excuse me, do you have anything else to say to this Mr. Zekanovic? You don't, well, you don't, it's okay. Here you go, Mrs. Selak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure was said to... Please, uh-huh, here you go, Mrs. Vuciilovic. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88847	Thank you very much. Article 238, of course fellow Bauk I will remind you there's a party we can but they've gone to elections as a platform We can of 6 parties if I'm not wrong there's no such thing. So that's how they advertised, that's how they used to go now. The club's green-left, but I'm not going to get into it, and as far as Marshall Tito's Square is concerned, apparently, is a colleague of Hasanbegovic and your new president. invented political perpetum mobiles. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88848	We don't have time anymore, we don't have time. Of course, breach of the Rules of Procedure is a warning, it's corny with warnings, please don't hurt the Rules of Procedure anymore. You have 100, 100 ways, 100 ways you have from free speech to, to this conversation with journalists, you have 100 ways, don't hurt the Rules of Procedure, why. Here you go, Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88849	Well, I guess we're not talking about disabled people when we can talk about another Tito and regretting the good old times that are popular in a newer time by the platform we can. Of course, they could have said no, and now you're fighting them for the electoral body that first moved Tito, who's just gonna back him up. If they had a little ideological courage and consistency, they would dare suggest it themselves, not hide behind your laps. They're already doing it in financial policies because they don't know anything about them, and now here's the thing about ideological things just because of lack of courage and political calculations. As for the situation of persons with disabilities in the labour market and access to institutions, it would be useful and to hear how much this approach is possible in all public institutions because, in time, the Ombudsman warned that not all public institutions were properly designed to enable disabled persons, we have a good example here in the assembly, but they do not have all the institutions, work within them. So we have to go from ourselves, and then we can just criticise other companies and institutions where disabled people work. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88850	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Majda Buric's turn. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88851	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome. So today, we have before us a draft amendment and the Labour Market Act with the final bill and we are talking exclusively about amendments and additions to only 6 articles that are in the principle of technical nature, but not only technically, because it is that the cash compensation for employment that exists today, however, in the social care system that it is moving into the HZZ system and that compensation changes its name to financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities to be paid by the same institution. So it is, in fact, as has been pointed out several times, about horizontal alignment with the social care law. The average number of users and fees at the annual level is around 2,000 and it is 350 kuna per month, and these changes and additions will amount to 375 kuna. The fee can be used from the earliest 15th year on, of course, in accordance with the law and with the opinion of the ZOSI, and that is, in short, the essence and essence of this law. Now, if we were to look exclusively selectively at this fee, if we looked at it as the only fee that people with disabilities can make is the wrong perspective, the whole perspective, if we looked at it as the only fee that people with disabilities can make, then it's low. However, this is not the case and it is not the only fee that people with disabilities make, so I think it is very important to present the exact data that are all these fees and help which people with disabilities can consume and I will now list them. In addition to this employment fee, it is a compensation during a professional rehabilitation of 4,687 kuna per month. This is a compensation for bodily damage at the height of 1,638 kuna introduced since 1.7.21. It is a personal disability that we vote on the day after tomorrow and we raise it from 1,500 to $1,750, while also abolishing income and property censorship, which I find extremely important, important. This is also an aid and care allowance of 600 kuna, or at a reduced amount of 420 kuna. There is also a guaranteed minimum compensation of 800 kuna, which we have raised to 1,000 kuna. The compensation should be further mentioned during a professional rehabilitation of up to 1.875 kuna and up to 50% minimum wage, respectively. The fee for employment that we are talking about today is one in the beauty of the fee that people with disabilities can use, and there are further benefits and assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities and those without it, and there are regular fees during unemployment, on financial assistance during education, etc. So, I believe that the employment fee is not necessary and we must not look only and exclusively selectively because it is a completely wrong perspective. As regards the very relationship of this government, in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic to persons with disabilities with full responsibility, I argue that this relationship is based on social security and social solidarity which are also condicated by son qua non, i.e. the prerequisite for the healthy development of every modern society and so on Croatian. So this government has invested 640 million kunas back in the last 5.5 years, as I have already said before, in encouraging the employment of people with disabilities, and no government has provided that kind of funding so far. Of which, out of these 640 million kuna 502 million kunas are secured for OSI incentives, therefore, for subsidising salaries, for covering travel costs, for job adjustment, working conditions, etc., and of these 640 million kuna 138 relate to HZZ measures, active employment policies that actually relate to the possibility of combining different measures for people with disabilities, to increased subsidisation up to 75% and also to the extended duration of these measures to 24 months for persons with disabilities. What I would also like to stress is that the results of these investments are the following, 15% higher employed person with disabilities back five years as long as [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mrs. Buric, time.]] This government is headed by this government, and it needs to be particularly highlighted. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88852	You have a replica, so you'll be able to connect. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88853	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Buric. Here are five minutes you've listed all those benefits that have been increased. What's important to say is that people with disabilities are 12% of the population of the Republic of Croatia when they take all kinds of disability and from the Homeland War, and others, and that, in fact, this package of amendments and additions to social care laws will increase the givings by more than 500 million kuna compared to 2021. However, in addition to these amendments and the addition of the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a National Plan for Equalisation of the opportunities of persons with disabilities in the period 2021-2027 and the Action Plan for Equalising the Equality of Persons with Disabilities for the period 2021-2024. the population is considered. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88854	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88855	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar. I agree with you that we need to take a comprehensive look at the overall reform of the welfare system relating to seven laws, one of them is the Social Care Act, the other is the Household Law, there are five laws concerning special regulated professions, and there are three national plans, one of which is the one that you have stated about equating opportunities for people with disabilities. When we look at it in a whole way, then we actually see that in front of us at the debate about ten days ago, there was actually a final bill on the full reform of the social care system, on which I think we should congratulate the government and the rest of the ministry for which more than a billion kuna were allocated this year in order to increase compensation for people with disabilities as well. In order to increase household benefits, to increase [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] coverage, etc. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mrs Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88856	Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have listed more or less all fees paid to employers or persons with disabilities. That's a lot of money and I thank you for doing some of these programs when you were secretary of state and you know how much money was invested, you said. So this year, only in the welfare system are billions of kunas, more than a billion kunas. Is it possible, with so much money invested, that we have a downfall of people with disabilities? Do you know, do you have any information by chance?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88858	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88859	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. So, I agree with you that the subject of this law, which is a fee for employment at 375 kuna, should not be seen selectively and individually, but in the entire range of benefits that people with disabilities can make, which I was just talking about, and I think it is necessary to observe them because this selective view is not good and it is not correct and leads to the wrong conclusions. And as for the employment and position of persons with disabilities on the labour market, the data that I have available, relating to HZZ data, the number of persons with disabilities who are employed is growing from year to year. Back in five and a half years since the government led Prime Minister Plenkovic, the percentage has increased by 15.5% and the unemployment of persons has been reduced with disability. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88860	Thank you. Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88861	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Buric. We see by the proposed law that material assistance is provided to unemployed people with disabilities who have completed education, we can see further that the law in question will allow them to get a professional job-seeking service, thus discharging the system and, of course, we will get a better service as well as the goal. National plan for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities for the period 2021-2024.g. The goal is to make Croatian society as sensitive as possible and adapt it in favour of equating opportunities for people with disabilities and to create conditions of course for their normal and equal inclusion and participation in society. How much of this national plan, the new Social Care Act that we discussed last week, is really going to help people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88862	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88863	Thank you, dear colleague Maximchuk. So, first of all, I have to say that we all generally as a society and as parliamentary representatives and as a public person and as private persons should all appeal and work on sensitization and in a better position for people with disabilities not only on the labour market but at all. I believe that back in 5 years this position has been greatly improved by looking also at the Law on Professional Rehabilitation which has been changed a few years ago and I believe that it has led to a better position for these persons in terms of and, let's say, their testings when they come to talks for and on, that they are able and adapted to their difficulties in the way these processes are carried out. And as for the national plan, you said yourself that we needed [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88864	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88865	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Buric, despite the fact that there is a good legal regulation in the Republic of Croatia for the integration and participation of people with disabilities on the labour market in accordance with their opportunities and need on several occasions we heard today showing dissatisfaction by involving persons with disabilities on the labour market. Employers can also achieve incentives through the Institute of Skills and Professional Rehabilitation, which include, in addition to salaries, transportation, job adjustment and working conditions. The active employment policy measures of the Employment Service are adapted in such a way that the funding conditions are more favourable than those of other unemployed persons. In our society, however, there is this outdated idea that people with disabilities are more concerned by material giving than by employment. Do you feel it is necessary to invest more in the motivation and activation of unemployed persons as well as employers on whose sensitisation In some ways, it depends on the employment of people with disabilities. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88866	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88867	Thank you, colleague Radosevic, for mentioning ZOSI, so the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, I believe that they are an extremely important factor in, in terms of the process of integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. As far as the Bureau itself is concerned, it paid off as I said 502 million kunas related to the employment of persons, and on average it is used annually by about 1,400 people with disabilities and about 400 employers. For what? It is for subsidising wages, to cover travel costs from work and to work for what is last year if I am not mistaken for almost 4 million kunas, which I also consider to be a major improvement and a relief in the situation for a person with disabilities to come and go away from work in a safe way and therefore has adjusted conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88868	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88869	Dear colleague Buric, listening to this science-fiction story that replaced the parliamentary exhibition, and you kept it a man would think that we were talking about tycoons, not disabled people who received a minimum of 20,000 kuna per month. All the benefits you've listed do not reflect the true condition of a disabled person's life. They do not receive 1,750 kuna and compensation for care but receive one or the other. So you're leading people on a completely wrong path. But my question is very specific. The lawyer for people with disabilities explicitly says that in the last 3 years, the number of people with disabilities has dropped. Since you presented the opposite information, which is an unequivocally suggesting that it is untrue why you unanimously supported her report in the assembly, which brings you into a position of inconsistency. So either she's out for the truth or you're out for it. teritium non-date. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88870	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88871	Dear colleagues, Selak Rasudić, you are false. So, according to HZZ in 2020, 2,475 people with disabilities were employed. In 2021, the number and letter of 2.740 people, which is a 10% increase. And that's the facts, and that's the data for the past two years. And as far as this second part of your question is concerned, I can only ask you a question. Now, your club that you represent as independent was a certain time with the ruling and I'm asking you what you did then for a better position of persons with disabilities on the labour market and generally and I'll tell you right away, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88872	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88873	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary representatives. My colleague Buric said I'm telling the truth. I quoted the prosecutor's report for people with disabilities, which is the opposite data for those colleagues, Buric. And which colleague do you Buric trust? The one who raised his hand for the same report with that data or the one that today defends the government of Andrej Plenkovic is quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88874	Thank you very much, of course you have a warning because it was a replica, and the truth is about philosophy, so on the cathedral you have all the time in this world to deal with it. You have a warning. Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88875	Yes, often here by quoting verified documents you get accused of lying. But I'd say something about your exposure. So you said the most she invested this of all governments, so your HDZ ruled this country more than 50% of the time for sure, I don't know which governments you, 1/3 of the time ruled, to which you governments refer at all. He says you've invested I would warn you that it's not an investment, it's not a investment we're not on the market so that you're investing in some stocks and I have to say that you're really, this entire generation of younger HDZ good heirs to your mentor's manipulation of statistics like he says that we've had a rapid growth of 16% this year, not mentioning that we've had a huge amount of what I've warned you about several times, GDP in the previous 2020, so this rapid decline and it's not, growth and it's not exactly a rapid growth. So you're doing the same thing here. [[Thank you, thank you.]] All possible social benefits without saying that someone only receives this one. [[Intruder: Mrs. Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88876	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88877	Thank you, ma'am. Peovic. You, you manipulate and you provide incorrect information. According to HZMO data in the Republic of Croatia today, 35,000 workers are more than the previous year, 26,500 compared to the old normal 2019. And these are facts and numbers. As for the very employment and unemployment rate in the third quarter for which there is actually the freshest, freshest data, our employment rate is almost 70%, the registered unemployment rate is less than the EU average, which is 5.9%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88878	Thank you very much. I'd rather say I don't agree with you, but no, you don't understand the truth because here this Rules of Procedure is not about this truth and not the truth, everyone says what they think, so let the public judge. You're gonna want that violation of Mrs. Credentials. Here you go, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88879	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Buric is saying, how did you say you wanted this yes, that it...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88880	It's not true, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88881	It's not true, is it? We're formulating. Well, yeah, I mean again means the unemployment rate you said she fell. Yeah, because we've moved a lot of people out. Our employment rate is the lowest, only Italy and Greece are worse than we are, and every time you repeat that we have hired more people, so you manipulate statistics. Because you count those who are insurance... [[Thank you, thank you, thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88882	You have, you have, you have a warning as you know it, and you know it's a different reminder. Vice-President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88883	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. You've elaborated nicely how the government of Andrej Plenkovic shares his hand and hat. However, you forgot to mention, in fact, that there was no harmonisation of social benefits and services with the cost of living that experts advocate, means that there is an indexation. Secondly, you forgot to mention, too, that the real benefits for living expenses are reduced from 50% to 30%. And thirdly, will you, in particular, be willing to support our proposal for a conclusion tomorrow, which is to increase the fees for customers, threatened customers of energy and to expand the user's diapason in a way that other than the so far guaranteed minimum fees and personal disability benefits on the same right also users of home assistance and care benefits, as far as persons with disabilities are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88884	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88885	Thank you, ma'am. A voter. So, you mentioned the indexation and I'm glad you did. So, when we talk about an increase in the actual fee or increase in pensions, I have to say that this government indexed or regularly increased all pensions, that even in the course of this crown crisis that has cost us more than 40 billion kuna so far, which is not a small amount, however, and in such a difficult time, they indexed regular and increased pensions, not only pensions but also national benefits for people over 65 years old, and we introduced, which was introduced about a year ago, for all persons who do not actually have conditions for pensions, and are older than 65 years old. and which is 800 kuna per month and is regularly indexed in terms of consumer prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88886	Time, thank you. And at the end of the day, Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88887	Thank you. You have listed all the benefits that can be achieved in the system means social care, either through the Employment Service, but what you did not mention and why this reform of the social care system is not about fees or services, which is actually about empowering that person with disabilities. Who will now, if we have removed experts from the whole empowerment process and we are actually re-administering how we will deal with persons with disabilities, who will advise people with disabilities, and how work will be organised at the Employment Service since so far these consultants at the Employment Office could help those same persons with disabilities, so we do not have any special results. These people are long-term tax collectors and most often due to the deterioration of their health conditions are only, becoming users of further rights, means allowances for assistance and care and other disabilityes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88888	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88889	Thank you, colleague Vlasic Iljkić. I don't really agree with you, and I'll tell you why. Therefore, as regards the full reform of the social care system, I believe that it is also aimed at reforming the system, i.e. improving the system in terms of and establishing academia and family homes, i.e. separation, etc. Not to repeat everything we discussed here 10 days ago, and I believe that this will really lead to a improvement in the functioning of the system and at that institutional level. For all of this year, more than a billion kunas have been allocated, which I consider extremely significant distinctions because this will primarily help those who have fewer, and these are among other people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88890	Thank you very much, no more replicas, you can...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88891	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88892	No more replicas, time is up and you can turn off your cell phone there. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic is now on, on, on, on, on. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88893	Thank you. In favour of this debate that has been a little bit led here about this statistical manipulation that HDZ MPs led by Andrej Plenkovic are really very often illustrated here just should say that perhaps even in the defense of counterpart Buric to some extent that, some fees and even that minimum wage, have been somewhat increased this year compared to last year, but that is because we are in the pandemic era and when the EU has relaxed those strict EU semester rules, when countries can be more in debt, when a larger government deficit is allowed, but it will all change very quickly and then the EU will ask for belt tightening and then we will only see the results of the work of the large and difficult HDZ government, will we? So, when we talk about it, we're just gonna see the hard days, is it, but I mean with everyone, with all these statistical manipulations, very simple things are being checked, so you're actually asking people how they live, is it, people know on their skin how they live because they're both pensions and fees and salaries actually compensation for meeting the basic needs, not the market for someone and investment, as a colleague Buric here says, they've invested in people with disabilities. But I would just say one more thing about gaining disability status, and I really have to say that, while the new defenders and those with the disability status are still nothing like mushrooms after the rain, ordinary workers and workers find it hard to get the status of people with disabilities, especially in the textile industry where many have lost their jobs, so there will be unemployed persons who should have the status of people with disabilities, but they are not given or admitted to it. The other day I received an extremely shaken letter from the wife of a working woman from Pozega, a textile worker who had been working on a sewing machine for 16 years, who was having a hard time, meaning in difficult working conditions she was spending her working life on her work life, so today she was almost still motionless and she thought about suicide and my husband came to me with a very dramatic letter from a retired woman who would actually want to get into that retirement disability, so I'm going to read parts of that letter to you, says her husband, that I wasn't in HDZ, and she started working at 15 years of age, and she got so sick, because her voice, and my voice, too, mean nothing to political parties to get votes so she could win the election, who asked more about ruined working lives in a confection, I'm afraid that she didn't do anything. I'm hiding the pills, but I'm afraid they'll come, that they'll find them. In my habit, I'm sending you an objection to the refusal to a disability pension, it's never been this depressing and anxiety, they're sharing imaginary defenders with privileged pensions, and workers who have worked since they were 15 years old, so when she was supposed to develop physically and not work for a sewing machine or iron, 12 hours a day, that's why her right knee is damaged and needs to be replaced by an artificial one, because the boot to start a sewing machine is driven by a right leg, and the right shoulder and spine because she's ironing with that industrial heavy iron. Says her husband, you can go wherever you want because I'm afraid it's too late, the man gave me both contact and her address as a denial for a disability pension. - Mrs. Crescent. The leper in that letter wrote, if someone thinks that with this diagnosis and physical damage related to the lower extremities of 30% that have deteriorated dramatically since the last determination of physical damage in 2017, they can work on sewing machines daily, stand and iron for 8, 10 or more hours, constantly carry materials weighing over 15 kilos, walk along and down the stairs, and when moving they cannot move without the help of the crutches, and my right knee hurts as soon as I bend it, and my left takes away as soon as I make a quick move in my spine. In particular, I cite the neurologist's opinion that I should not move or turn rapidly, lift heavy objects, then the surgeon that I have a right labyrinth hypofunction 45%, that I have dizziness, dizziness, and uncontrolled fall at home, then the status of a specialist in physical medicine that has determined that when I move I have to walk with a rat for knee pains, that I am unstable, insecure, extremely tense, and my movements are reduced in all directions. Then, personal hygiene can no longer work alone, I'm weak mobility, who will help me, etc., etc., we no longer have to write this worker, but I'm just colleagues and colleagues, I warn of the status of workers and status They're like people with disabilities. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88894	Time. Time. As you've seen, I'm leaving enough space to say things that are collateral to the law. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88895	The terrible fate of women in the textile industry, and even the whole fate of the country in the process of emancipation in the labour market where they rushed towards the lowest paid jobs, is that they could do anything and then in Yugoslavia we had a wave of women employed in the textile industry at such lower functions, while men with party books were in charge and so remained until today. I hope, in any case, that this person's disability will be recognised, and that is precisely why he would ask you what we have now heard from his colleague Buric, a man really gets the impression that we are talking about tycoons who receive 20 thousand kunas per month and at the expense of that invalidity have a more comfortable life than the average population of the Republic of Croatia. And when we take a closer look at that statistic, then it is clear to everyone that these fees are voided among themselves, and they do not add up, and how do you interpret it, what is this message? the disabled who listen to this delusion in the debate [[Intruder: Time.]] HS, the most important body in the country? [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88896	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88897	Thank you. I must deny you the comparative analysis of SR Yugoslavia and modern Croatia, unfortunately, I will agree, unfortunately, we are really much worse. You know, as far as reproductive housework is concerned, as far as women and women's jobs are concerned, and not to say, the pensions that are to the greatest extent today are actually women living in difficult poverty, means the whole structure and wages and pensions were different, so let's just say that today, it means only 39% means the share of wages in retirement, and sometimes it was over 56, it seems to me, because when we talk about the salaries, we're at 37% of the salary of a Western European worker, we're compared to 30 years ago, we dropped the standard, and unfortunately it fell, and it's sad to say, That's the situation. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88898	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88899	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. A little bit about statistics, so there is always a colleague Buric who is a lot prone to it, but also colleagues from HDZ who have not forgotten 75% of the time of RS independence acted as executive authority, all the time he likes to deal with situations that aren't exactly like that. So this census has shown how many fewer of us there are, we know how many working populations have been evicted, so if we want to talk about statistics on the unemployment rate HDZ has very simply solved its policies, so people have gone out because they don't want to live and work in this country. But you really don't need to turn this subject into something like that for a disabled person. There is a need to discuss what is really the point, and in particular to discuss women, what you did in your debate, and what you did is very difficult to hire, and when a woman is a person with disabilities. Then that's it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Significantly reinforced. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88900	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88901	Yes, unfortunately for these statistical manipulations, it even seems to me that we're relatively responsive, and we should because you get the impression after HDZ says that it's increased the number of employees, so they don't lie that they've increased the number of employees compared to last year, it sounds like everything is great, but we have one of the lowest employment rates, so compared to what we're good at, right? So they generally avoid comparisons with both the EU and our related Slovenia, you are given sufficient information that the Slovenian minimum wage in the amount of our average, therefore these statistical manipulations really need to be answered, and now you have here again in this law that this debate, which has led to the number of people with disabilities who have been employed, has increased, but again in terms of which and which is the general status of those persons with disabilities and how many of them are employed. Of course things are catastrophic if you take it compared to Western Europe and [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Europe at all. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88902	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88903	Thank you. Dear colleagues. You mentioned a lady who really needs to be understood and supported, indeed, by the exercise of her rights and by providing her with psychosocial support. On this trail we will also ask that all workers of the former Orlja factory be helped at both the city and the county level in cooperation with the union and we will communicate very clearly with the city and county authorities. As regards benefits for unemployed persons or for elderly persons, the fee is also mentioned here for the elderly who should have been and ensure that all those who do not have the right to retire are compensated so-called. National compensation for older people. However, this fee has also been debacled by the planned 20,000 users of only 6,000 users. How do you comment on this bad planning and what can we expect from this resolution ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88904	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88905	Well, thank you. First of all, to look back at the workers of the Eagle, I'm glad that you're really involved in this fight for the Eagle Workers I don't really see, I have to admit neither from your club nor from other opposition parties any desire to help them, but the workers of the Orly are the typical example. So women over 50 years most of which are hard to employ, many of whom should have gained the status of people with disabilities, and we see that the status of persons with disabilities is acquired, difficult or not, and that when they retire they will be in that unpopular pool of people who are actually with pensions that are less than the necessary means for a normal life, and they are actually the example on which this government should show if it has that social sensitivity. Here's what the Secretary of State said on the Labour Committee yesterday. HDZ in the next period. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88906	And Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88907	... First, let me help you with your stats a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, over the past few years, we have exported 400,000 of our working people to Europe. If we take into account that assessment that one man needs about a million kuna for education, and when we turn it into euro, it turns out that we actually exported 53 billion euros to Europe in our minds, working people. So much for statistics. The second question, that's where you mentioned one story, you were talking about this story that's very distressing, and I hope it has a positive epilogue, but please tell me if you have any information from that great fan of all the possible fees the lady listed, what did these poor people choose, what did they get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88908	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88909	Yeah, thanks, buddy. They didn't get a single fee from this woman, and no other situation is much happier. And as far as this statistical manipulation is concerned, I don't like to see people in the categories of money that we've lost here. But what might be more dramatic and should be said, we have 16.7% of the working-age population evicted and then HDZ tells us that we have a growing unemployment rate. Well, it's the height of cynicism, it's really the height of cynicism, and you've taken people out, driven them away, and then you say we don't actually have a problem with unemployment. In such statistical manipulations, they're somewhere I think and swim with that undecided pulse of voices why they get some positive answers, so to speak, from people, and that other large part is actually a clienteleist machine that's connected to them. So these statistics must certainly be answered because they are standardly dramatic. When compared to side examples. [[Intruder Radin: Time Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88910	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88911	Dear colleagues. Here I find it extremely interesting how you and your colleague Kekin in this law managed to mention both HRVIs and put them as some kind of problem. I'm calling you from this place if you know of some fake invalid who's got it against the law to just report it or keep it quiet. So I guess there may be some, but I don't know about these cases if you know how to do it, report it, and I don't see why you have this need continuously, you and your colleague Kekin, in a law that directly doesn't concern military people, always mention them. I feel like it hurts and it bothers you, maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88912	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88913	Well, my colleague, I think you have a very bad impression that I have the impression that a lot of military people with disabilities have a good part of Croatia. And I'll give you one piece of information that's illustrated. I'm not a cop, I'm not any of this institution that needs to check whether any of these wartime military people have unfairly acquired that status or not. All my relatives from Segette Lower thinks so, that many of them shouldn't have gotten that pension, but about that. We're not cops, and we're not going to investigate, but I'm going to give you one piece of information as to why the defense attorneys are considered privileged. There are only 3,858 of them among the 1.1 million ordinary pensioners. Among the 700,000 defenders, 11342 have a pension of more than 8,000 kuna. So now you tell me whether it's statistically acceptable or maybe we should share the burden of the crisis a little bit, because this is about us being in very awkward and difficult times when everyone should share that burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88914	Time, time, thank you. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88915	Thank you, Vice President HS. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague and disdains HRVI speaking of perception. So the perception in your head can be one thing, and the disability of body damage is quite another, and these people have not taken anything from anyone, they have gone to war, a bloody war, they have created freedom so that a colleague may unfortunately say things like this that are not like this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88916	I'm not going into the content here either, of course it is, it's a replica and a reminder not entering the content. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88917	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague, Shimičević, who said something I wanted to say. However, I will comment here, I must use this for my colleague Peovic's replica. When the average pension of HRVI is analysed here and is said to be above the average and then said by a parliamentary representative who has twice the salary and speaks of the need to distribute the burden of the crisis properly. So I have a similar salary to you. So, in that sense, a little bit of it is hypocritical to me, but on the other hand, I'd like you to understand at one point that those people who once dressed up in the '90s put on a uniform and fought and risked their lives that we had to give them some way and financially thank you, and if they hadn't been sitting here, it must also be clear to you, so that they wouldn't be a representative in HS, like me, so there probably wouldn't be any of this HS, at least not in the form in which it is today. I must continue to relate, freely, to make this debate about this law look like a free speech and I must refer to my colleague Kekin again and to what happened after not mentioning in any word the person with disabilities but actually talking about everything and everything, she looked at the title of the law so superficially, and then I will use the word "tubunjale" on the outside, completely off the topic. I, who warned the chairman that it had turned off the topic, was given a warning to me while I was being warned from my point of view by my colleague Kekin. I am sorry that at that time the secretary of the plenary session was not here behind me or in his place. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, here I am, and in the replica I actually said and I got a partial answer, but here I have to repeat one, one of my fears. I have to admit that this mediation in the employment of people with disabilities is one part of me that's a little vague. If there is, but I haven't managed to figure it out, if there's some kind of system that allows people to apply to that system, if there are any special notices for people with disabilities or people with disabilities, they actually have to look for the job themselves, and then when they find it and locate it then the state or the system helps them with the bargaining and so on. On the other hand, we heard that we have 9,000 legal entities that have to hire people with disabilities depending on the number of employees in some share, but I haven't heard what their sanctions are. So, if you have a decision without a criminal provision, it won't be carried out, so here's what we heard is that, in my opinion, if I get it right, 2/3 of these legal entities don't respect that legal provision, and I don't know what their sanctions are, maybe their sanctions are completely banal, you know what I don't know about Ban Jelačić Square and say three times I'm a donkey, so maybe something like that, maybe not. So, I don't know what the sanctions are and I'd like to hear it from a respected secretary of state if he told us something about it. So maybe here's another thing about metrics, so education. There is, therefore, also in this bill possible requalification of persons with disabilities, but I would like to see a more thorough system developed here that people who have a birth disability or some of the earliest age that are here systematically educated in such a way that they can be on the labour market tomorrow, and here I am not sure if there is, is such a thing, whether our system is elaborated or there is a verse. And finally, I'm going to return to the same little replica as the chairman. He said it is bad to use the word “untrue” and that the term “I do not agree with your quote”, but it also has an even easier and simpler, easier to understand word, and that is a lie, we avoid saying. Unfortunately, also from this pay phone, politicians and colleagues and colleagues lie, so lies or lies, and if someone lies, and others thinks someone's lying, so why don't you just say it, you're just lying. It is a Croatian word and we need to use it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88918	Okay. This one and you have used the same good part of your exposure to replicate Mrs. Kekin and you're polymizing with me, we'll get over it because we said we were leaving it free, right? ... And by law, you've been doing a little bit of this, but we'll get over it, too, because I said that's how we're gonna do it, and I don't just agree with the more civilized way than you're lying, you understand me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I prefer him because he's more civilized, and as far as the truth is concerned, as I said before, she's a subject of philosophy, and here with philosophy, fortunately, we don't deal with philosophy. Incomprehensible/.../... [[A little, a little, a little, a little...]] Fortunately. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88919	Here I have a pretty good solution for your dilemmas about lying or not telling the truth, statistics are pretty verifiable, let's say, so I'm going to tell your former colleagues, I don't know, maybe the future, Simicevic would say that he can't tell me that I'm lying or that I'm not telling the truth when I'm comparing counsel pensions with ordinary pensioners because he can be informed about it on HZMO. I gave you literally information coming from HZMO, and to you, my colleague Zekanovic, it means that I, just for information, do not receive full salary from the Assembly, but I, above my regular salary at the university, donate to political work, but irrelevantly. I can agree that here the salaries are too high and should certainly be cut, but if someone has 8 thousand kuna in that pool, means a pool of 70,000 of them, over 11 grand has such a high pension, and between a million and 100 thousand ordinary Retired people, only 3,000 of them, that says something. [[Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88920	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88921	Look, dear colleague Peovic, first of all, let's clear up to the Croatian public. You've told the truth, but you've camouflaged it a little bit, so as far as the outside is concerned, there's a bigger pay for the one who's in the Parliament, you'd take that salary, since it's bigger in college, you took it there, that's what it's all about, is that what many other colleagues who are doctors, university professors, etc., is it? But okay, and that's legitimate, so it would make, I guess or work, most colleagues. As far as statistics are concerned, you actually said 8 grand you said, counsel, right? Eight thousand, or disabled. But look, as many as there are, here I don't know the data, tens of thousands of those who are RVIs, and they have pensions that can't survive. Only a few thousand kunas, there's a lot of them. There's a lot of them, you left it out, so you just said one little part of the truth. And whoever doesn't have two legs, I'd give him 100 grand if he had a month, for example. or he's blind because of Homeland defenses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88922	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88923	I thank the vice president of HS, here I will take the opportunity to tell my colleague Katarina Peović, I have not offended you in any way, I just stepped in the defense of HRVI. If you don't know, or you know that someone who didn't deserve to be disabled, you feel free to report it, but you can't mention Croatian defenders here in such a way that they actually wanted to be disabled, take their pensions, it's, it's under my dignity and please don't talk about defenders in such a way, just that's what I'm warning you. And to you, Mr. Zekanovic, also teaching at the previous debate, we are told in Dalmatia that women have 3 canton houses, a man 1 and the question of whether or not that one can be held. The question arises here whether women can achieve disability and belittle the commissions doing so. I don't believe they're all HDZ and That thieves are that way. [[Thank you very much.]] how my colleague wanted to show them. [[Intruder: Mr. Šimičević, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88924	Okay, of course, I don't think there should be gender discrimination, of course, no case at all, but here, I'd be a little over here, actually replicating you, but I'd be referring to my colleague, Peović, you're my colleague, but you're also her colleague and you were 10 minutes ago, and you'll be 10 minutes, unless you break down HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88925	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88926	Dear colleague, just to help you with your dilemma regarding those 9,000 legal entities that don't hire, one part of them doesn't hire people with disabilities. Namely, for every quantum non-employment unless they hired one person to pay 850 kuna. Yeah, monthly. [[/Intruder: Annual, Monthly?]] That's it. That's how it was, now maybe even more this year, I'm not sure, but before there were 850 kunas. [[/Intruder: Monthly?]] Some secretary, monthly, monthly. [[/Intruder: Monthly?]] [[Intruder:]] So, for every person who's not employed, who has disability, the penalty is somewhere around here, something less than 1,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88927	Answer. Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88928	The second thing I wanted to ask you. You mentioned one part of the law that I definitely disagree with, which is the time of implementation, that is, when it comes into force. This is where we need to get professional staff at the Employment Service. This Institute doesn't have time, we'll vote on it on Friday, after 8 days of the law, how will they team up?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88929	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88930	So, first of all, thank you for this information. So here I am going to repeat once again, if the public hears, 850 kuna means it's supposed to be sanctions, punishment for those who don't hire people with disabilities, and they should. I think it's too small, if it's some big legal entity, but here, you can correct me, it should be significant more, 850 kuna is minimal. As for human resources policy within the general public, we have a major problem here. We have a negative selection. You today for, here, someone who works for 3 or 4 thousand kunas, or for a minimumer, is, will seem to him to be a large salary of 5, 6 or 7 thousand kunas, but these are the salaries that people who work in these services have, and then of course we have meaning sub-capacitation, indifference and that we actually get in the state service the worst when and that's one problem that I don't know how to solve because who has any salt in the head he's running from the state service because the private sector, the sector is much better paid. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88931	Thank you, back to the law, discuss the law, wait now, well, there is no display yet, but the next is Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88932	Dear chairman, state secretary with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, I am sorry that some HDZ deputies act like their coalition partners, come to this speaker, say what they want because this allows them to do so by the Rules of Procedure, and then leave the assembly and do not want to take any further part in the debate. That's not fair, it would be good to exchange opinions and act in the direction of improving our laws. I have come forward for this debate, driven by debates and replicas of members of the ruling majority. Namely, in these replicas and discussions, data that should imply increased employment in the Republic of Croatia have completely ignored the real situation and the real employment problems present in our country. At the same time, the Croatian public is being deceived because a fake picture is being created of an increase in the number of employees. I'll explain now. The fact that the data on the number recorded in HZMO is entirely wrong is if the fact that the records and students working through the student service are because they pay contributions, that in this record are our fellow citizens who are registered on the basis of copyright contracts because they pay contributions as well as those recorded on the basis of an act contract because they pay contributions. As a result, the number recorded in HZMO is increasing, not because we have increased the number of employees in enterprises. The number of our citizens who are registered by the basis of these contracts is unfortunately increasing daily, and the government and representatives of the majority in the assembly instead of facing real numbers and taking action to increase the safety of employees, by misrepresenting numbers on the one hand, comforts themselves, and on the other hand deceives the Croatian public. According to the latest available data from the employment office in Croatia, around 12% of our citizens worked through these contracts in 2016 and showed a trend in growth. So today we can conclude that the number of employees if we subtract this or we multiply these percentages by about 180,000 people compared to what is presented, and if we add to these figures fellow citizens who are temporarily employed, who are employed through agencies and who are employed in part-time we will get to the defeating numbers of constantly employed and that is true, these are real figures. I must point out that some 270,000 people who have engaged in their own crafts and small businesses have been included in these devastating numbers, with the fact that we need to know that that number is falling, or that the number of self-employed is falling. The same is true of hiring people with disabilities. There's been an attempt here today to say one completely wrong thing. None of the opposition claimed that today there were fewer persons with disabilities than it was in 2018, but it was said that in the past 3 years we have hired fewer people than we have hired in recent years and that is the real truth. And that's what we have to deal with. It is persistent to ignore the fact that the number of persons with disabilities has been falling since 2018, and whether the provisions of this law will really help people with disabilities after completing primary school, high school or higher education to make time easier and faster. What is encouraging is that this law ensures continued material legal protection. The question of whether money aid is high enough is not even to be asked because money aid is certainly not high enough, but I am sure that both the amount of that fee will change very quickly. And that finer of compensation that's been here mentioning unfortunately isn't true because one rules out the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88933	You, too. The last individual debate belongs to Mr. Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88934	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, proposing representatives, I will look back, or I will use this debate to ask only one question that is of a technical nature and which I suppose you certainly have a good answer. In fact, Article 4 of the Law provides that, therefore, the user himself is, therefore, a disabled person is initiating the requirements relating to the duties provided for in this law. And as it is written in Article 3. these rights are not only related to minors but also to children and it is specified that children who are 15 and who have stopped schooling for a number of reasons, whether it is a high school or something else. The following article de facto specifies that the applicant is therefore the person to whom the award relates. However, when it comes to underage children, I assume that this request can be signed by one of the parents or if there is no parent and legal guardian or legal guardian in the event that the parental right is lifted. Since it is not specified here, I assume that it has been arranged by other laws so that this proposal should not be submitted, but simply for the purposes of interpreting the provisions, etc., that it remains recorded. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88935	Thank you. Replica, yes. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88936	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Fabijanic, I know that you are following the situation on the labour market, we are together in the Committee on Labour, so I would like to hear your opinion, today the data in the debate has been presented that, despite the opportunities that exist, despite the support, legal regulations, are not sensitised, are not too interested in hiring persons with disabilities, so what is this reason and how can we, as a society, change this relationship to the employment of persons with disabilities at all? So the state gives benefits for employment, but they are not used to a sufficient extent and it does not reduce this gap between the employment of people without disabilities and persons with disabilities, so what is the problem with society in our relationship, are these measures inadequate, what is your opinion on the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88937	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88938	This is not a particular issue, but when we talk about the Labour Committee, I have also supported this bill. So in Croatia, the employment-related norm has its own stimulating, therefore encouraging measures, but we also have destimulating ones, so because we also have the obligation of certain employers to, in a certain percentage, if they cross a number of employees, have to hire a disabled person, but unfortunately, many would pay fines and pay them, just so they don't have to hire a disabled person, that's Croatian reality, but the fact is that we have problems with more activity because in some you can really hire a disabled person, in construction not too much, no? So, unfortunately, there may be more to be done through the study sectors that require, after all, time and money. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88939	Thank you. Now we move on to the closing words of the clubs. The first is the HDZ Club and the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88940	... Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here, first of all, let me say that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. So in the Labour Market Act, there was a newspaper by transferring a social care fee to the Labour Market Act because it belongs to it. So any person with disabilities as well as so far will have the right to apply to the Employment Service for this fee until they are employed. Of course, if, after a certain number of years, a person with disabilities loses his job and has the right to a fee greater than this one, he can first use this one and then return to this one. Nothing new, I'd say, and that's why I'm feeling a little bit strange here today that some colleagues have been very concerned about the amount of this fee, and I'm sure a lot of people have never even known it existed before. So far, many have done nothing, even those who could, to increase such a fee. Be assured, if you ask people with disabilities now that they prefer to increase, this fee or personal disability, of course, we know what they would say, but I know that many will say, but this should also be increased. Well, good. I think that there, that always the colleagues in the opposition will say that they should be bigger and they would increase it alive and they would increase everything until they came to power, then in their term they would not increase anything but the dauphins, just to say that the disabled people were in a position to break the law on an inclusive supplement precisely because, here, and some of the opposition, not some but all of them had no understanding then, they didn't think that the inclusive supplement should be the highest, that it should be much more than a personal disability, then, even today, of course, when we were talking about it, and I hope that it would be very soon, so. Empty words, and I'm sorry that it turns out, that the colleagues in the opposition so much in some way attack HDZ, I heard here today that it turns out as if Andrej Plenkovic had given it to me how many times more, to pour his hand and hat, so I have to tell you that it might be true and so because if we compared the government of Zoran Milanovic, the current president of the state and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, then Andrej Plenkovic really pours his hand and hat because in 4 years we have increased the fees of persons with disabilities three times. After 20 years, in 2018 we increased the personal disability and allowance for assistance and care. In 2020, we increased our parents' compensation to double teachers. There, almost double. Now we've increased those fees again. We've increased our personal disability. I know there's always going to be a need yet and don't think I'm going to say it now, but now it's a personal disability great, we'll never touch it again. Of course I won't, it can always be better, but you have to be aware, I know it's wrong for you in your opposition, but what I'm going to do now, I can't help it much, is that Andrej Plenkovic and his government still gave the people with disabilities the most. I personally look forward to it, that's what I'm happy about, and you know why? Because he was created, primarily because of that, a partner relationship with the government. Which we haven't had in a long time. [[Intruder: Time.]] Once again, the HDZ Club will support this law and here I am. I ask you, Secretary of State, what I have mentioned earlier, to arrange with the Minister, that here, as soon as we go again to amend and supplement this Act for compensation for [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the parents of the foster parents. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88941	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić is in need of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88942	Dear Chairman, here, I will follow your recommendation and I will say that I disagree because none of us have said that Plenkovic shares his hand and hat, but the fact is that he shares it to the wrong people. And that's why we don't have the results. If divided in the right way, the right people, they'd have better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88943	Okay, I don't agree that you think that I said you could, that if you say that you disagree, and you hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you won't get a warning, you'll get a warning because it was a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Selak Rasludić, Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88944	My colleague Pavić, you will have to be a little more specific because in Plenkovic's government there are those who use only hats and are happy to change them so Plenkovic can possibly share them with his hand and hat, not with his hand and hat. So, I would go back to what was the focus of today's debate, which is the labour market law relating to the status of unemployed persons with disabilities. I am sorry to hear from the HDZ Club that they are unhappy because we have tried to fight here why the higher fees for people with disabilities and also to point out the lack of quality benefits and the problems of parenting parents, especially in this crisis caused by Covid's pandemic, as well as the discrimination on the labour market and any other problems encountered by persons with disabilities. Let's go back to the facts, we saw today that the fact is not popular in the HDZ Club, because they have one fact, and a key person who cares for the rights of persons with disabilities, whose reports unanimously supported, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, offers other facts. They point out that the number of persons employed with disabilities has increased by 2018, while the number of persons with disabilities has dropped in the last 3 years. And registered employment of persons with disabilities has been growing again for the last two years compared to 2019 by 3%. The number of self-employed people with disabilities has also decreased. Starting with this key fact when we talk about unemployed people with disabilities, the question we have to ask here is open, try to give him an answer whether we've done enough to change that trend. In this context, legal changes should be supported to facilitate the status of unemployed persons with disabilities, but to further encourage their integration into the labour market, which is the part where we do not have enough proactive policies, which we also talked about on behalf of the club, and I also looked back on that in an individual debate. And here we come to what was the subject of the debate today, and to what we heard again in deception, not a clear and decided answer. It is clear to all of us that on paper this fee seems tragically small. The fee offered here to unemployed people with disabilities is 10% minimum wage, which is 300 kuna. What can any person, let alone a person with disabilities with that money, do? Buying gum gum every day and bacon when, I don't know, it goes to school even though it's people who, of course, finished school, but this looks like a allowance so I don't know which other parallel it would pull. If there are, we are open to dialogue and I will not politicise this in the sense that I think there are social actors, and even the HDZ Club who do not want better status of persons with disabilities, so if there are reasonable arguments that the fee is this low, then we need to be given a clear explanation that this amount of money fits into the entire budget of a person with disabilities with an emphasis on those costs that are basic living costs, and not to say they are receiving 4 thousand kunas for rehabilitation, which is the cost that the rest of us do not have, and then you are talking about some large amount, and in fact for basic living needs there is nothing left. Or to listen here in the final word on behalf of the HDZ Club on personal disability without saying the key fact that it applies only to persons who have the most severe 4th degree of damage and it is good that they have a greater personal disability now, but this invalid will not get everyone, and we also saw that the minister does not distinguish the personal disability and care compensation. So, if you want us to support these lows, not to say embarrassingly low fees for unemployed persons with disabilities, give us, given the degree of damage, a concrete budget with an emphasis on the part of the money left for basic living needs, which, based on all the benefits that people with disabilities receive, is available to persons with disabilities. These are the data we need, not here to play tycunize people with disabilities, so we're hearing about some 20 thousand kuna fees they're receiving, and they're actually canceling each other. So give us concrete arguments, we're open and then we can talk about whether this allowance is enough for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88945	Thank you. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak finally on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88946	Here, let me refer to my colleague's representative. These fees that HDZ representatives have been talking about are compensations that exclude each other. If a person with disabilities is a user of an aid and care allowance, he may not be a user of a personal disability or if the user means that employment benefits cannot be a user of a personal disability and an allowance for assistance and care. So the unification and administration of some large fees is not actually acceptable and is not appropriate, it is not enforceable. These are compensations which are isolated and depend on means of individual need and of the user or degree of damage, so on and on these charges. We could hear today that these legal changes are provided in one place, that users are receiving financial compensation for the unemployed and that they are being managed in the unemployed system so that they will now be more easily provided with the professional assistance they will receive from their advisers at the Employment Office. Here I would draw attention to the fact that until now the same persons have been in the records of the Institute and have not been able to find employment, but have been users of compensation, socially excluded and left to themselves and their family for years. It was difficult for them to achieve employment through an active employment policy measure, which is due to ignorance, but also to the lack of capacity of employers to employ people with disabilities. They need to be further strengthened, as well as consultants at the Employment Service to further educate and activate people with disabilities in finding their employment. It is about 2,000 users of young people who need to play an active role in the community, which starts safely with employment as a prerequisite for independent life. In the opposite young person with disabilities who came out of the education system, which enabled them to engage, we socially rule out and the only environment is their family. Surely every person with disabilities’s strength means a lot to all family members. We must also mention, on the basis of this, the Institute of Business Capability, which has been amended by the Family Law of 2015, when the deprivement of the business ability is completely and partly deprived of the ability to enable disabled persons to make business capacity in areas where they can make decisions on their own in accordance with the judicial decision. This decision was very well accepted among people with disabilities as well as their guardians. Money assistance for unemployed persons with a disability of 375 kuna, as we have heard here and it is often not enough and the ministry is obliged to ensure that this cash compensation is a short-term character, that it does not happen that people receive compensation for years, that they fail to get a job, that even decades pass and that their health status has deteriorated and have become users of some other benefits that include greater damage and worsening health. The Employment Office under this law shall, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the official duty, initiate procedures for the recognition of the right to financial assistance. We believe as I have said before that this deadline is too long and that the procedures for the recognition of rights should be launched within a month. This would ensure continuous remuneration, which is in the interest of the user himself and that advisory support is provided as soon as possible in order to facilitate the finding of a job. We are calling for an active employment policy of persons with disabilities to be targeted by a group to be represented in the use of measures and to make a specific recommendation in this direction and to set out employment services, that they are indeed the target group to which this measure will be implemented in practice. This is particularly important because the majority of complaints by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities relate precisely to the inability to achieve the right of advantage in employment. If people with disabilities are often victims of discrimination at work, and precisely because the workplace is not adapted to their needs and are unable to present its skills. Persons with disabilities are worthy and loyal workers and should be supported in presenting their skills and allow equality in the workplace. We appeal to the full application of the adopted implementing documents of the National Equality Plan for Persons with Disabilities as well as the Action Plan so that the documents adopted would not be their own purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88947	Thank you. And now the last club is, of course, the Social Democrats Club and Mr. Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88948	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the motionary. In fact, the final word of the HDZ Club encouraged me to have this debate which was the same final, because we were talking about the past, about what was going on, which wasn't the case. We've had enough of our colleagues here on the left and on the right whose first term this is. Therefore, I am absolutely not affected by the fact that some governments have or have not worked. But we're stuck in the same basket, and then it would be instructed that in this kind of debate, if we wanted to be constructive, then you could say exactly who didn't do anything, he didn't have a partner relationship, but by name and last name, you could tell me which government. I don't have any problems with that, but it's unfortunate, well, it's rhetorically justified, maybe not for this home or communication, so beyond that, it turns out that we're all in opposition as we are. I do not want to distance myself from anyone, from the parliamentary majority, or from the opposition. I have absolutely no problem with that. In my individual discussion, I think I was very constructive. Anyway, I wasn't bidding, I wasn't even a critic. If I wanted to be a bad politician and a cheap demagogue, then I would write an amendment where that fee is not 10% minimum wage but 20% minimum wage, and then I would say that Plenkovic's government doesn't do that and then I would be in partnership with the disabled gentlemen. There. Okay. It's your rhetoric. It's usually a classic rhetoric for one who's not constructive but has to raise himself up to have to criticise and denegrate others. Yes, it's one of the Croatian political games, but I don't agree with it, I want to install it, and as such I'm building on behalf of the club because my colleagues from my club Social Democrats are not acting like one, nor are we going to act like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88949	Thank you. Now, in the end, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Ivan Vidi will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88950	Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament thank you for your attention and constructive discussion. I believe we are all aware of the importance of ensuring continued material legal protection for unemployed persons with disabilities. By empowering the Croatian Employment Service to decide on the right to financial assistance for unemployed persons with disabilities, we allow this particularly sensitive category of persons to receive a professional support service and help find work on the one hand and certain material assistance on the other. It is also important to point out that in this way we will ensure efficiency in the conduct, but also contribute to more successful inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market. Giving material assistance to unemployed people with disabilities with professional support in the labour market integration process is part of the overall concern of people with disabilities, so I call on you to adopt this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88951	The replica of Mrs. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State according to the latest data from the Office of Arts Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which I received here now during the debate because I was just looking for. It's obvious that there's an increase in the employment of people with disabilities. In 2021, so a month before the end of the year because 12 months have not yet been completed, 30.11. About 1800 people with disabilities were employed. At the end of 2020, so at the very end of 1425. So we see a rise in this year, so it's not exactly what we've been hearing here today that hiring people with disabilities is falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88953	Thank you. Answer. If you want an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88954	That's right, I agree. We have published the data we have from the Croatian Employment Service's eyewitnesses where we are here according to what we have clearly showed that we have positive trends in terms of the reduction in the number of unemployed, increasing the number of persons employed with disabilities from our records, so from around 7,000 we are now to 6,000 people with disabilities who are in our unemployment records. Of course, we don't settle for it, and we don't think that they are or that these people are tycoons, or that their position is fantastic. We want to help, we want to give additional incentives and support to all persons, not just persons with disabilities on the labour market or in the world of work, as today has been an objection to this term by continuing the initiatives we currently have in place. First of all, in this year, I really expect a lot of serious active employment policy measures, because it is really more encouraging and we really expect that we will have even stronger indicators in terms of reducing unemployed persons in the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88955	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88956	Dear Secretary, first note that the Social Democrats Club on the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership supported the law and that we will also support it as a representative club. So there's no dilemma. The law is in that section that was passed ok. But what we've been responding to all along is wrong numbers and wrong presentations. For the first time, taking out a lot of, a lot of numbers in history doesn't do much good because we're talking about a law that will apply in the future. And there's one problem I'd like to warn you about. I don't know if it's already settled or not, but the law will come into effect eight days after Friday, or after publication in the National Journal. I don't know if the employment agencies managed to team up so they could provide a service to our disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88957	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88958	I can start at the end first. As far as the Croatian Employment Service is concerned, I must admit that we have a lot of confidence in their capacities especially after this situation with the covid where they have processed a huge amount of conditionalally spoken data. I can see that this is not a popular word for you today, so we have a lot of confidence that we will still be able to process this few requests, that we will technically transfer them from the Centre for Social Care to the Croatian Employment Service, that in the short term, that in fact users will not even feel it because, of course, their right is not being abolished just continuing, only the second conditionally said supplier. As far as the data is concerned, here I think we have the kind of data that we have from the Bureau, we follow those six, seven key indicators that we simply see where we are. We are absolutely closed to other data and to other contexts and to pairing those data. We are aware of the difficulties and challenges, but according to our data, our measure must have some effect. Of course it can be better, and we'll make every effort to make it even better, to keep the data even better than these today. But thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88959	And at the end of the day, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88960	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, except for the support for the employment of disabled persons we heard a lot about during this debate, you have also mentioned the measures of active employment. We know that the government singles out over billions of kunas related to active policies and employment measures. I'm wondering if you have any information just to, to point out which program and how much money goes right for active programmes and support for youth employment. This is number one because we know that we have a certain positive movement regarding unemployment itself and increasing the number of persons employed and not to mention all the measures now and how much money was going to save jobs for the covid pandemic, I'm only interested in a few data if you have very much about these measures and these billions of kunas as it goes to support employment just young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88961	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88962	As for young people, I think that when we look at the rate of self-employment of 26,000 users, 6,000 are young. So to that extent, we see, what proportion of young people, something higher on other measures, I think, by the age of 30. around 30% of the users. As for the funds every year, we intend to contribute to the employment of everyone on the labour market so as not to say investment about a billion kuna. So through the standard envelopes, we have about a billion, and now, specifically, through the NPOO, another billion and 400 million have been secured, just for active employment measures of a billion and 100 million. So we're about to assume that the share of young people who will use it will remain as they have so far. With a small note, as I understand it, as part of the next envelope of the European Social Fund plus there will probably be additional alocation specific for young people. Yeah, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88963	Thank you very much, Mr. See, you're done, no more replicas, so I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass, thank you. We're moving on to the next and as far as I can see, the last item of the day's work today. So is that the last one? There's still a MIP report we don't have on the table yet. - Final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 211. [[We've still got the MIP report.]] So the second is reading and the provisions for the second reading apply, and amendments can be given until the end of the debate. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. We have Mr. Joseph Bilaver's State Secretary from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure with us. Does he want to take a word for it? Stanku? [[Intruder: Stanka, stop looking]] And Mr. Daus is looking for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club to point out a problem that's happening to us with a ferry line to the island of Cres. So it's a state ferry line 334 Porozina-Brestova 8 months in a row year is such that the last ferry from our Brestova, so from the Istrian coast leaves at 19 and 30 towards Porozina, in Porozina is at 19, even half an hour ago. After that the sea our dear Cresani and Lušinjani are torn to their islands only swimming in mixed style a few miles. Both locals and Cres and Losinj have repeatedly complained that they would like one later line, that it would not end at 19:30. It shouldn't be as necessary as Valbisca and Merag in the middle of the night last, but at least it's about 22-23 hours, even with that break from 19 to 30 by then. In July and August, the sailing order of course due to the tourist season is much more dynamic, in June and September is still correct, but all these other 8 months are not good. And if we want to save our lives on islands, and I believe that, especially when it comes to this law, we want to improve the quality of life on islands, then let our Cresans and Losinians have later ferry lines, and the answer I cannot accept and will not have a line across the island of Krk, so Valbiska and Merag, it is about 80 kilometers longer plus toll, etc., this is not a solution for late evening lines towards the island of Cres and Lošinj or a return from those islands to Istria. I appeal once again if we want to and if we save at least one family, we keep it on the islands, I think we've all achieved one success together, and I hope that this is the direction we're going to go and that the state will, of course, go through, because it's the state ferry line, that and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88971	Time, thank you very much. Of course the break is approved, but we're moving on with the debate. I personally support it because 100 times I came back from Losinj via Krk and Rijeka to Pula is that it is not pleasant at night... Who's looking for a break? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of [[Intruder: Branko Bačić on behalf of HDZ]] Let's take a break, I can see that now. [[Intruder: Branko Bačić on behalf of HDZ]] Since my glasses are for short, for far-sighted, not shortsighted, I forgot to take them off. Here you go, Mr. Branko.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't think of this, either, if you hadn't noticed, that I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club for 10 minutes to repeat once again all of the good parts of this law, which I speak for us here as islanders, but which is for islanders, and for all those who come to the island also very important in the Island Act, is practically the most important legal framework that speaks of life on islands and on the development of Croatian islands. This law since it is, this is now a new bill of law, but it is based on earlier laws that this assembly has passed. It was crucial in 2006. when we set out for the liberalisation of the maritime market and when the monopoly was practically abolished over the line of coastal sea traffic, which until then had Jadrolini as a state shipowner and in spite of the numerous fears of employees in the management of the Jadrolinija trade union, and Croatian sailors also found that market liberalisation and such access to line coastal maritime transport bring better conditions for the transport of Croatian islands. This is what we are witnessing these days because the fact that quality maritime transport has made it possible for tourists, as well as islanders, to have a better transport connection when it comes to the frequency of starting trips and when it comes to the price of the map and when it comes to the quality of the ship and when it comes to the speed of the ship. This law is a continuation of such a reflection that through its provisions it is made even better, even better traffic connection between the Croatian islands and we will support the law in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88973	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Of course, the break is approved and we continue the debate on the basis of the general article. I'm going, please? Arsen Bauk yes, all the islanders though Daus, Deus is not an islander, you are an islander. [[Intruder: Arsen Bauk]] Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88975	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88976	Yeah, that's how you announced me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88977	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88978	What is for the other citizens of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is for us the Law on the Islands and the Constitution, and what would be the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for National Minorities would be for the islanders this law, the law on, which regulates the rights of transport of the line, etc. This seems to me to be the first time in the history of parliamentaryism that the law that announced the support of all political options goes into second reading without anyone asking. This is the first time I have been able to track down that the HDZ Representatives' Club has made an effort to respond to the amendment of opposition MPs and to the ideas of the opposition JLS leaders with an even stronger amendment that gives and more than they were looking for at the beginning. That, therefore, shows one mutual solidarity between the representatives and other state officials from the island, now we get how I heard a good reinforcement of this and in that sense I can announce the support of the SDP Club to this law, but I would like the Secretary of State to still give one explanation. According to the amendment of counterpart Ante Sanader, who is in the article. The 32rd century is the 3rd century. It turns out that every DVD member in Croatia will have free ferry transport. So they don't have to register on the islands anymore, it's enough to join the DVD. It'll clear our list of voters on the islands, but it's not, it's not life. If they're going to intervene if it's just vehicles, then fine, but please give an explanation and fix that provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88979	Thank you very much. You're a strong dagger, and we're outstretched on three sides, so we support you. Mr. Joseph Bilaver, I'm sorry, I have more, I have to, I must, no, first, no, first you, Mr. Joseph Bilaver first yes, and then we'll ask for representatives of the board. Here you are, Mr. Bilaver, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. ... What? ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88980	Honorable Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. One of the main strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is primarily to maintain the permanent link between the island and the mainland and the island, as well as to increase the frequency of the existing ones, and to introduce new lines in maritime transport. This ensures better mobility of the population, faster and more economical transport, a uniform development of the county, a link between various modes of transport, which is also a prerequisite for the development of the economy and for creating better living conditions, as well as for the rest of the population on the islands. The new law is adopted for the reason that the current Transport Act is currently in force in line and occasional coastal transport since its entry into force in 2006. changed and updated 6 times. Meanwhile, the Public Procurement Act, which has been transposed into Croatian legislation, has also entered into force in the field of public procurement by the EU Directive, which also has its own application in the field of public line maritime transport. Therefore, it was necessary to access the creation of a new Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport in order to bring public service procedures on lines of general economic interest, as well as public transport on lines without public service obligations in line with these roof laws. Moreover, in view of the State aid Act, and the EU State aid rules, State aid and individual aid schemes to be granted to shipowners in the form of public service compensation were to be harmonised. During the discussion of the law at the meeting in HS held on 15 December 2021, as well as after the conclusion of the same, and according to the instructions and arrangements with the European Commission, the introduction of a concession system for lines without public service obligations has been waived in order to be considered in certain situations so-called A preliminary approval, contrary to the principle of freedom of the EU internal market. Thus, according to the European Commission's instructions, the introduction of a concession system for lines without public service obligations has been waived. The most significant change has been made in relation to the text of the draft bill which was first read in the assembly, and this text of the draft final draft law also contains the comments which have been adopted by the relevant parliamentary committees, the representatives’ clubs and the first reading itself. The adoption of a new Transport Act in line with occasional coastal maritime transport will primarily align the provisions relating to the procedure for granting public service powers of general economic importance with EU rules, which have been transposed into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia by the adoption of sub-legislative regulations or regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the procedures relating to the pre-aid procedure in the form of public service compensation will be brought into line with the State aid Act. In addition, the issue of privileged and free transportation of island and island-based legal persons, the transparent use of that right, and the effective taking of measures to prevent their abuse, and in a comprehensive way, ensuring free transport of firemen and their vehicles, or those of the firemen who are driving in those vehicles at that time, regardless of whether they are employees of professional units or members of voluntary fire companies, which was also one of the proposals and by the representatives of Sanader, the representatives of Bauk, the Club of HDZ Representatives, we have accepted that. I repeat, it is vehicles and persons who are members of public fire departments or voluntary fire departments in that car or in that vehicle at that time. Since the adoption of this law is also of particular importance for shipowners operating by means of a public service contract since legal gaps have been observed in the implementation of this final proposal have been removed or regulated by law, for example. change of the ship during the validity of the public service contract, annual settlement of public service compensation on non-profit lines, issue of introducing a new construction on a line which is linked to the deadline on which the provision of public service is entrusted and so on. The law also regulates the obligation to repay the public service compensation received to the public budget if it exceeds what is necessary for the shipowner to settle the net costs of public service provision, and so far it has not been adequately regulated by the existing law. Finally, the new law encourages the introduction of new construction on lines in public line transport as well as ships powered by alternative energy sources, thus contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases from ships, as well as to raising the quality of service provision in public line maritime transport. Finally, here I also thank the quality suggestions that were in the first reading. We wanted to pass one quality law without too many amendments and therefore we decided to go to another reading and I believe that this law will ultimately contribute to more frequent lines, better, better service above all ours, our islanders. Thank you. We also accept amendments that are mostly the nomotechnical nature of the office for, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Transport that we held yesterday and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88981	Thank you, Mr. Bilaver, you have a few, a few amendments, a few replicas, a few pardons. Mr. Ante Bacic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88982	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I will take advantage of this law and note that high-quality coastal transport also requires quality port infrastructure. I would like to ask you, to tell me a few things about investing in the port of Split, perhaps the most important port area in the Republic of Croatia we know that now it has become a major site, we also have a problem solving i.e. a new eastern coast, solving the entrance to the port itself, but there is also a problem of the Dalmatia wine building that should be used a little better, but here you would like to mention several aspects of investment specifically for the port of Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88983	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88984	I would like to thank Agent Bačić, at this point we in the entire coast have only a European investment of over one billion kuna, national funds up to 100 million kuna per year, and of course the city of Split, the area of Split-Dalmatia County, is represented. At this moment, there is a large, large coastal arrangement at the port itself worth 25 million kuna. The plan, that is, passed, was accepted by the Commission in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the Split port terminal, and we are also here in contact with the Port Authority of Split for the construction of northern, northern part of Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88985	Thank you. Mr. Pero Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88986	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am particularly pleased that this legislative proposal has established the scope and scope of the central information system of public line transport, which has not been defined by the current law, thus allowing the issuing of a travel map in digital form, and that in one real time and the data from these maps will be transferred to the Central Information System when the vehicle and passengers are boarded, and I am sure that this will greatly help to establish integrated transport, mode of transport of passengers. It means that passengers will be able to buy one or more tickets means in one place for all modes of traffic that will be used on their journey. And here I think it's going to be interesting to hear in what real time you think that this kind of traffic on this law is going to establish that digitization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88987	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88988	I thank Representative Cosic. And so far there were certain information systems. What we want to do is unite all of this, we don't want to build any additional systems now that will increase this alone, the costs to the boaters first of all, but neither to the state, but we want to make a transparent central system that will in real time provide information to both the agency and the boaters about who enters the ship, as long as it's stuck, who's using the rights of privileged transport. And what is our goal is to apply to such a system to the European Fund, which would be implemented by the Agency on a coastal line and awarded to normal shipowners who have a public service contract, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88989	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88990	Dear Secretary, in the first reading, we had between us and the description, which states that the consequences of the legislation will arise among other things and that they want to create better conditions for the exercise of the right to preferential transport, especially for the transport of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, and now what my question is, while at the same time, preventing the abuse of the right to free and privileged transport. You just explained one part of the function.../incomprehensible/... system which is actually understandable, I hope that there will be that function that when a man bought a one-line ticket that he couldn't and bought another card since it didn't allow it. However, as we read now, Article 32 says that Croatian citizens who have the right place on the island or on the Peljesac peninsula, etc., are also citizens from Europe. And we know that most of them are wrong, not reported truthfully, but falsely and actually... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88991	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavic, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88992	Yes, well, so far, we have already been in the last amendments to this law, and there have also been initiatives from then and present representatives giving additional rights to persons with disabilities above all children, and surely this law does not reduce the rights acquired, although as we have heard in the introduction, we further extend those rights. As far as the infringement or abuse is concerned, we have had the case so far as to be the competent coastal line transport agency in cooperation with the port captain and there have been many cases of violations of these rights or abuses. They're sanctioned, we know who they are, what these coincidences of such use are. In the future, this surveillance will be even more frequent, even better because we want to further administratively train the Coastal Line Transport Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88993	Mr. Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88994	Thank you very much. The IDS Club always supports everything that is good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it will also support this law. But once again I use the opportunity, don't mind the State Secretary I appeal to you and you represent the Ministry, do everything to introduce this line between Istria and the Istrian islands, one short voyage on the already existing line is not a big deal for the Republic of Croatia in some financial sense, and the real quality of life on Cres and Lošinj will thus improve. And you'll get the support of the IDS Club for this bill, so it's my question whether or not we'll get support for this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88995	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88996	Well, here it is known that the ministry and the government have always responded to the real demands of the local self-government unit, we introduced a new line of Dubrovnik – Korčula – Lastovo, which has also been welcomed, which has contributed and will contribute to telling demographic preservation of our islands, so here if it gets to this point I mean that this request has arrived, we will also consider it in collaboration with the agency to see what opportunities. And I certainly wrote it down, and my first vote was that someone asked that this line that already exists is the last ferry in 19 and 30, so we'll check it out, see, I, this request to us at the ministry hadn't arrived yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88997	That's the way it's been since I remembered it, ever since I remembered it. Mr. Kuzmanić... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88998	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State Bilaver, with all the benefits and benefits of all the good things that are introduced by this law and which I personally support, I would like, perhaps, the future rules that will come from this law, which will define the liberalisation or concessioning of certain lines to be also presented if not to the Croatian Parliament, then at least to the Committee on Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure, that we may know in advance what we will, what will come of it, and whether all our citizens will ultimately be equal before the Constitution because we all know that all the lines are not equally attractive and that this so-called. The liberalisation that Mr. Bačić praises in some places can be a double sword so that some of our islands or some of our citizens living on the islands are citizens of the second order because their service is not at that level of quality as it is in other locations that are interesting for concessionaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u88999	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89000	Thank you. You can be sure that you will certainly not reduce the level and quality of service on any island compared to what we now have can only increase. However, I appreciate your request that in the rules that normally go through the procedure of public debate before they go public, and there is the chairman of the board, we are at our disposal to come to you and present the rules that will follow this law, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89001	Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I see that in Article 32, it remains that other persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties who have the right to free transport, so as we did about 2 years ago when it was in any changes and additions, although since then, here's what always follows me amongst them I would even tell some of my stories that I didn't want to raise my hand for children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities to carry a boat. I'm glad to be able to say it's not true now because here we are with this law and those changes from two years ago. enable all persons with disabilities and all children with developmental difficulties in Croatia to be transported by boat, those who need it, not just those from the island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89003	Here, you don't have, okay, all said. Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State later, I will speak more of the benefits of this law. What I particularly welcome and for which I have replicated is the fact that this law returns to the earlier provisions of the laws that enable us islanders to transport free on all lines and on all islands. Until now, this provision has only applied to the island where the place of residence exists, and this law must point out and the vehicles of the island have the right to preferential transport on all lines on which there is an obligation of ferry and public service. It seems to me to be one of the greatest contributions of this law to us islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89005	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89006	I'm glad you've been doing this again because actually this is a policy sequence of government that is also with legal solutions, but also with investments all the time trying not only to stop the depopulation but also to bring life back to the islands. We have seen that here are several places and cities on islands, which, above all, have a direct connection and a line, a ferry line with land to see even an increase in the number of inhabitants, which makes us very happy, and I believe this law will go in this direction to further contribute and not only to contribute and increase economic activity, because economic activity together with the opening of jobs on islands contributes to stopping family drains and increasing the number of family members on our islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89007	- Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peiræ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89008	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, since we come from the same county that has, Zadar County, which has a lot of islands that are inhabited, it is very important to note that this provision of 300,000 passengers therefore and the possibility of subsidising certain lines is very significant, although there are many islands in our county that are very, very attractive and with great traffic and people and these vehicles and in this way it will greatly improve communication and I hope that what you said will improve because it is very much time and resources already invested to improve this communication between the mainland and.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89009	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89010	Here's a thank you. We know that the area of the Zadar Islands is relatively well inhabited, first of all these, these closer to the mainland of Ugljan, Ugljan and Pasman, however, the Long Island does not lag behind. What's more important when you mention our county, I need to mention quality infrastructure, port infrastructure in Zadar, above all in Zadar. However, this infrastructure is now being developed in both Biograd and Tkon and Salim where we finance certain things from European funds. However, because of the situation of the city of Zadar or the port of Zadar and the shortest line according to Ancona, it is good for Italy to announce that this line, which was unfortunately due to the influence of the coronary virus pandemic, has been abolished to plan this year in cooperation with Jadrolinia to restore that line because I repeat this is the shortest line between the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Italy and it is very important from the economic aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89011	- Mrs. Crescent. Bad Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89012	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here's what we see, and you yourself mentioned that this law has been changed six times. My question to you is whether this law will soon require another quick change, because in most of the articles when we talk about the island's sayings, the inhabitants of Peljesac Peninsula will soon be, the Peljesac Bridge will be in operation, the inhabitants will actually be connected to the mainland in this way, please make a statement and get to know the public whether the current lines and privileges of Peljescans will be abolished or as I have said, we will have a re-amendment of the law which will exclude Peljescans from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89013	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89014	Well, look, the laws are I would say a living body that changes depending on the situation, depending on the other thing and on European legislation, but also on the current situation on the market, however the world changes, so they have to adapt and change laws. At this point, Peljesac is treated as an island. Therefore, given that we are passing the law now, we did not want to leave empty space until the opening of the Peljevo Bridge, although we look forward to it being open for a few months, and after that we will sit and talk, and if it is the only change of the law then it will be very soon brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89015	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89016	Here's my thanks to the chairman. My question concerns this part of the 2006 amendments to the 2006 law on market liberalisation, whether as liberals we welcome the liberalisation of the market because it ultimately leads to better services for users, and one question for you. Do you know how many foreign shipowners have received approval from the agency whether for line transport for which lines and have, to date, taken over any of the lines in order to liberalise the market and the equal conditions for all EU boaters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89017	Thank you. We are, if I remember correctly and in the last debate in 12 months, you had certain suggestions and questions. We've changed some things here now and on the basis of everything else. It was a question of concessions from these profitable reporting lines, non-reports to competitions, etc. So you said what would happen if the contest wasn't completed in time. We've considered that. But let's get back to the question. Of course, we are a member of the EU, we are part of an open liberalised market and any foreigner who meets the safety requirements, which meets the requirements as well as any other ship not only of the Adriatic Sea, but any domestic shipowner is welcome if he says protects and respects the laws of the Republic of Croatia by noting that are in line with EU directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89018	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89019	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, here's what I want to believe is that this is quite a high consensus and that I need this law to believe that we're going to bring it with as many votes as possible because I think it contributes to all the provisions and even better conditions of sea traffic but certainly also the quality of life on the islands. The second thing I want to say is I want to thank the Ministry after those remarks I made about the port of Stinica. Finally, after eight years with the help of Lika-Senjski Mayor, we have done more activity than in all eight years. Here is probably the debate of the assembly, which is worth something, and finally all the activities have been launched to bring about both the superstructure and the maritime infrastructure at that important port for the island of Rab. And thirdly, we have introduced the meaning of these fees that children with developmental difficulties and disabled people of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia can drive free on the islands. Do we have any information on how much this costs the state in the past is going to use for over a year? Perhaps you have some information? Compensation yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89020	Well, well, I can't tell you exactly. For that we should ask the Coast Line Agency which has a budget of about 330 million kuna, so I can give you the answer that all these rights and all the lines on the entire Adriatic coast cost us so much. Very likely, given the situation in the market, at the price of fuel, everything else will cost us a little more in the future. But I'm saying for now it's like that, and if there's any need, of course we'll find extra resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89021	The next replica is Urša Raukar-Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89022	Thank you. Good afternoon. Clearly, therefore, there is a strong agreement on this law, which is certainly a major and beautiful change. But here's what I'd like to ask you. This bill provides for a central information system. We also have what's called CIMIS no? Which is a Croatian integrated maritime information system. No, it's not quite clear that these systems are uniting together. And now, from the field, there are observations that the operator is making it more difficult because it goes to those larger operators who have a larger administration, so here I would ask you to understand what I'm talking about, so please explain nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89023	Thanks for asking. Those boaters, the operators who were at the meeting, we made it clear to them that there would be no additional burden on them and certainly not some small boaters with one or two lines in the same position as Jadrolini. So, I told them at the time or we'll find a technical solution that won't cost us anything or we'll do it all centralised through the Coastal, Lined Agency that will withdraw the European funds that are available to us through public procurement to solve the entire system. We aim at these few different I would say information solutions of consciousness under one centralized and we know, we are aware that certain shipers, for example, do not have a wireless Internet at the moment and could not in real time send data to CIMIS where they should be sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89024	Thank you, Secretary of State. That's what we used up all the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first club of MPs is SDP. On their behalf, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89025	Except for the 4 years of the ministerial term, the dearest part of my political career was the adoption of this law that Mrs. Lukacic spoke of in the replica, and it is true that you did not raise each time. In fact, the government refused, or parliamentary majority refused to amend the law I proposed. It was usually the only law I proposed, but every time on the board, when they refused it, it was public pressure why you didn't do it, so after the third time they accepted the government's proposal and we were satisfied. Yeah. As far as this law is concerned, I must say, so as the Secretary of State has explained, it should be written or applied, but not as it says, we will support this bill. You find this business-processing gymnastics interesting, because if it's going to be used as you said it would be applied rather than as it says, then you accepted the amendment between me and Mrs Ahmetovic, not Mr Sanader. But never mind, just let it be spelled and applied properly. As for the right to preferential or free transport, I must say that I have one dilemma about residence as a basis for the exercise of rights. First, it would be more logical for the residence to be the basis for the exercise of rights because if someone has a residence on the island, and the residence in Beli Manastir or Osijek or somewhere else, then as long as it lasts in Osijek, Beli Manastir, Zagreb or anywhere else, it is not life that he has any kind of privilege. On the other hand, if a person who has a residence in Osijek, Zagreb, Split or Bela Manastir has a residence on the island, then it is more logical that he has the right to a privileged transport. So you would get rid of a large number of citizens who actually because of the privilege of being for a vehicle, either for a vehicle or for this ticket, are reporting a residence on the islands. Secondly, since it is mostly small communities then it has certain influences on the political structure, but it may be a debate for some others, for some other time. Also, I don't see any reason why a person from an island who goes to the mainland once a year has a privilege, and a person from land who goes to the island every day for work doesn't have any privilege even on the number of trips. And let's remind ourselves of the same budget that fills those who don't live on the island. Of course, at first glance, everything I said could be aimed at reducing the rights of those who have residence on the island, but by respecting the principles of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I can sometimes say something that goes the other way and I personally and part of the citizens I represent if it's fair, and I think it is. Secondly, the question of liberalisation, I'll describe it to you in the following way. For a time we had a private who had received a concession on the Split – Supetar line but the islanders continued to drive in Jadrolinija and when they planned their journey to the mainland and from the mainland they mainly planned on the road ahead of Jadrolinija. And to ask why the answer was very simple, the Jadrolini will always be there, and the privateer will only be there while he can make money on us. Now, and then we had other trucks mostly going private because he had better prices for trucks, so it reminded me of a kind of apartheid we had those ferry for these and the ferry for those who in America buses for some years. It probably also shows a certain ratio between the island's inhabitants and those who use services to the state shiper who is here and when no one is there and when no one else is there, when we're gone, our letters will be drinking and driving the ferry of Jadrolinius how to get a little poetic, poetically express myself. And that is why we support what goes on to increase and quality of transport, to improve services and anything that makes life on the island better not only in summer but also in winter. There's an island version of that sentence that you were in '91, and that's you coming here in the first month of January, now it's the first month. It is a second, second kind of this debate when, for example, it is too convenient for those who come 2-3 summer months to earn while tourism is, and then after that 2-3 summer month then we never see them again until long. So these certain specificities that every part of our country has when it comes to this law and this topic is the specificity of the island environments. Is Peljesac going to be more of an island center when it gets the bridge, and is Krk an island center for as long as 40, 50 years, is Murter Island? The Peljesac peninsula, because of its position by obtaining the bridge, will not be very different from Krk, it seems to me, although towards the county centre it will be the same distance because it does not go over the bridge but over the Stone, and the second county centre will be a little closer to it and that is Split, then it is further to him than Zagreb is from Karlovac. So, I don't think that if you're going to change it, I'd like you not to change it, but I don't think that a few thousand Peljesac residents in that sense will, because because of them, they're not, to be honest, because of them, they didn't even build a bridge, but because of those who are going towards Dubrovnik and we're still going to connect, to connect territory. So if the bridge was somewhere else it would have been built somewhere else, if such a geographical situation were somewhere else it would have been built somewhere else. We were in the first reading that we didn't know that the first reading was abstention, not because we had some objections to the law, but because we even went to the second reading, why it wasn't brought right away. When the parliamentary majority decided so, we took note of it, but we made one of our modest contributions by making certain proposals. I see the awkwardness of the formulations as exclusive, as one attempt by the marketing trick of the vice president of the Croatian Parliament and that is one legitimate way of political struggle, and it is up to us to respond as we know it. Therefore, the mayors of the island cities of Dalmatia proposed something, the ministry accepted it in a public debate, the failure was not put into the first reading of the law, we intervened with the amendments, and then they remembered from the ruling that they might, too, because they remained on the proposal for opposition and good. As far as the application is concerned, if all Croatian firefighters are driving to the islands are welcome, let them come, let them stay with friends, let them help with the ceasefire, it is not the most just because, let's say, voluntary blood donors in this sense, it would still be the one that would argue, and then I think that it would be preventive to follow the implementation of those provisions by a member of the DVD, ask Hejdas himself, to Špickin, because otherwise, it would remain undetected, so if this is done, then, if it is misapplyed, then we will call you, or we will seek further enlargement, enlargement, enlargement of rights. The SDP advocates' club will support the bill, the bill and everything I've told the government to think about for some other changes if it comes to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89026	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89027	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport therefore regulates the system of public line maritime transport, which ensures the regular maritime connection of inhabited islands with land and populated islands with an appropriate number of regular lines in both directions. So here we do not need to emphasize, but we have already said in our first reading how much this law and this transport is vital to the island's inhabitants for the sake of economic development, improving living conditions and the work of people on the islands. The law therefore entered into force in 2006, as amended so far, 6 seems to me 6, 5-6 times in order to comply with EU rules, and this time the law is changing except that it is in addition to whether it is in line with the EU and with the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on concessions that was amended in 2020. and the Law on State aid granted to shipowners in the form of public service compensation. The proposal also specifically regulates the issue of preferential and free transport of island and island-based legal persons, the transparent use of that right and the effective taking of measures to prevent their abuse. We also heard the amendments were accepted whether a series of clubs on free transportation of firefighters and their vehicles, regardless of whether they were professionals or members of DVDs. So here are any objections actually to this law and we don't have a problem or supporting a law like this, but here's a few, a few interesting things. What I asked in the replica, therefore, is an interesting alignment with EU regulations and rights. One reason is that the 2006 law was passed. and the change so far is this liberalisation of the market and the management of maritime transport, i.e. the abolition of the monopoly of a state-owned company or of Jadrolinia, so we should have applied the principle of freedom to provide services in maritime transport within the Member States so-called maritime cabotage. In this final proposal, therefore, the first-reading proposal distinguishes the articles that regulate the market of lines without public service and articles that regulate the way lines with the public service obligation to comply with the December '92 EU regulation, so in 2022 we are now in line with the '92 regulation. However, if we look at all these changes so far whether or not it is also the indication of the benefit liberalisation of the market, here's the question: does he know if we know how many foreign shipmen have been granted here in the first place? According to some of my findings, and how familiar we are with the data from the Line Transport Agency, the agency has granted approval to only one foreign shipman. ... Zero, not once. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I have information that one of them got approval from the agency, but he didn't get approval for the shipping order from the port administration. ... Okay, well, we can discuss this later in the debate, so I'll get the information right here and then you can deny me this one. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So the information that I have is that one foreign shipman got approval from one line agency, but the port administration didn't give its approval on the shipping order, so it actually basically stopped that foreign shipman in, to actually run that line. And now, not getting into a particular case here, I'm actually only talking in principle about whether, as I said, we advocate as much of a service as possible to end-users as liberals and to liberalise the market anyway. The liberalisation of the market ultimately helps I would say primarily to the users of islanders who travel to the islands, they are not really interested in who owns the boat, who drives them from the island, they are interested in the fact that the boat is new, correct, that I don't know in the salon air conditioned, that it has a quality service, that it is sure that it is safe during some accident that they are sure that the accident will be resolved quickly, that there will be no more consequences, that the ships will leave in time and in time that corresponds to their regular activities, that the ship leaves at 7 a.m. and that they can arrive at school, not just at 11 o'clock or so that there's no one to drive in that hour etc. Is it, therefore, interesting for the island's inhabitants to have a quality, quality and fast service? So if we have already legally made it possible to liberalise the market because Europe has forced us to do so, and we are in harmony with European directives, laws, regulations, we have therefore an open competition against everyone in Europe equally. Now let's not, and in practice, maybe plant in some way from other sides of the leg and somehow invent the reasons why they would stop the entry and the foreign shipmen on our market. So, competition is always good, and here I think Mr. Bačić when he talked about competition and in the last first reading said that competition ultimately also leads to improved services and the state shiper Jadrolinija, so in that desire to be better at it and to compete with others in the end then there is actually a better service which is then also for the benefit of users. One remark that we have been warned of is art. 7th of the final proposal of the Law on the Transport of Line and occasional Coastal Maritime Transport is an article which will allow port administrations to arbitrarily exclude certain types of transport from the port. So we have been warned here that this authority cannot be given through this law but through the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which is the subject of, among other things, marine ports, port areas, the establishment of port administrations, port activities and their operation, construction and use of port upgrades... and essential questions about order in sea ports, so that this Article. Seven more parts of that law than this one. In the amendments to the law, I have also commented on this for the last time in the first reading, going to introduce a central information system for the collection of passenger and vehicle registration data when boarding the ship. So far, they have been collected on the basis of shipowners' data on the number of tickets sold, not on some system record of passengers boarding the ship. The question that is being asked here to me as a technical profession and as an IT expert in basic occupation is why we are introducing and I didn't get a last-time answer, why is another information system being introduced, why couldn't one of the existing two IT systems be expanded? So now we have three separate information systems unrelated to each other. One is this new central information system or CIS, there is so-called CIMIS system therefore operators continue to have an obligation to enter the number of passengers on board in this CIMIS Integrated maritime information system established by the rules on the safety of navigation and we have so-called ‘CIMIS’. SEOP or Information System for the registration of users of privileged transport, so three different and separate IT systems. So instead of connecting them together, which is at least here today in the 21st century absolutely possible. I also commented last time that we were already here to comply with some of the regulations mentioned earlier in 092. It is also the decision of the Commission or of the 2010 regulation, so it is not very quick to comply with European legislation. Since the comments from the public debate that I mentioned last time, here they say that they are also respected in this final proposal, which are the comments of operators who were afraid that the procedures for public line transport would be without the obligation of public service, so these seasonal lines would be a complicated procedure, but I see that something has changed in that sense. In fact, my point was not to let that administration and some complicated procedures end up keeping people out of line until you know the appeal procedures are resolved, etc. So here's how much, so we're going to support these amendments to the law with some open questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89028	The next debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89029	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable state secretary with associates, respected MPs, respected MPs. Here I do not know how much it is now or without substance to discuss this part of urgency and not the urgency of the law, for the first time this urgency was justified by the implementation of the NPOO i.e. It states that urgency is necessary in order to implement the envisaged measures and reforms of maritime and internal navigation, and that compliance with the '92 EU directives and acts is also indicated. And in 2011, here we are, and at that time we have rightly instructed from the opposition that there is room for two readings, but even then the opposition accepted most of the changes and almost all changes were welcomed positively because the very purpose of the law is therefore maritime integration. We all know that it comes first if it wants to stay and preserve the island population. And then there was this little twist, and we still got a time period for another reading, which is always good, so you don't get me wrong, but here's what's left of that mess to say. The confusion occurred at the time of the first reading because certain proposals by the interested public did not immediately enter the law but went further with the amendments, as I said then completely unnecessary. However here today, the second reading of justice is through transparency and, most importantly, to make the law useful, to be functional, to apply and to begin to provide benefits of their changes that are here and for the first time accepted as positive. We all know that this and this law can be said to be vital to the island's inhabitants, and it is exactly the ferry line that one factor without which the sustainable development of the inhabited islands would not actually be possible. And just without this quality connection that has to exist all year round, without it, life on the islands is actually just shrinking. We therefore welcome the proposed amendments, in particular the issue of creating better conditions for the exercise of the right to preferential transport. This should primarily highlight better conditions for the transport of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties and, of course, our firepower which, as I said, may have been accepted earlier. Speaking of privileged transport and privileged tickets here, I would like to announce here is already the amendment of the Social Democrats Club which, in one spirit of social democracy, is proposed to exempt from privileged cards from government officials who do work outside the county where they have a place of residence because it is mainly about persons i.e. It is about officials who are not exactly able to say that they have small incomes compared to other citizens, to others especially from islanders who really live and work on the island or from those who travel daily to work from island to land. And these very proposed changes will be excluded from the benefits of all those in high functions, for example with residence on Long Island, who live and work for example in Zagreb and during the tourist season use privileged maps. Here I believe and hope that all fellow MPs will especially support such a proposal and will agree, in fact, that in addition to all the benefits and mainly paid all travel expenses for coming and going to work, it is unnecessary for this group of people to have transportation at preferential prices, especially as I said because they use it during the summer months and during the tourist season. Here's my colleague Bauk already in his debate about and gave direction that he would support such an amendment, that is excellent. Furthermore, one question remains open, in fact, I did not get an answer on the replica, so I would ask the Secretary of State to look at it a little bit and finally, because everything in the law applies to the islanders, and so these privileged maps actually refer to the Pelješac peninsula residents, so I ask you to answer here the Secretary of State will, given that the Pelješki Bridge will ensure that these people are connected, so please make it clear that by connecting the bridge will lose and shut down these current lines. So it should be mentioned here through the debate that modernization is also waiting for us. One eco-transition of the vessel and of course we all support it. We support green investment, we need to strive, we need to work on it, but still important and remains out of the room here for one adjustment and make sure that the ambitions we have taken do not exceed us and that we do not remain in some interspace of inability to implement the regulations adopted. Next, I'll also say how positively we view the obligation so-called. local consultation i.e. The units of local self-government and shipowners, and it is important to mention, through the debate, a question which we have also touched a little bit on the board, and we have been talking about that when calling for tendering for ferry lines, we should go with one package, let's say the transport lines including the rentable and non-performable lines in one binding package, in order to actually achieve and maintain precisely these non-performable lines, and I believe that you will also take care of that. As far as this law is concerned, these few things we have here through the board have been absorbed and I will now unfortunately take another chance as I did last time during the debate on this law and mention this public service of the county and interstate transport on land i.e. bus lines here is really an opportunity because these bus lines are still waiting for the call of tenders and signing and contracting. These land lines are just as important to us as ferry lines at sea, and here we do not need to repeat how important they really are in rural areas and how much they actually contribute to the quality of life, so I appeal once again to the implementation because, indeed, the way so far, it leaves an impression of the indecisiveness of public authorities in solving the regulation of public line transport, which I repeat to the public of great importance for both the population and the transporters. To end here I want to take this opportunity and congratulate our Jadrolinia's birthday. Namely, this week our national boatman, our so-called so-called. The white fleet of Jadrolini has celebrated, marked in fact 75 years of existence, and I want to make my way through it a successful continuation of business, many more nautical miles of peaceful sailing, many more happily and successfully transported passengers and vehicles, and I will conclude with this, and I will say that the solutions proposed in this law are actually progress and the Social Democrats Club will support this law and I expect from the other fellow MPs to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89030	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89031	Thank you. Here's a lot of daggers talking, I'm a purple girl but I'm married to a dagger, so I'm kind of giving myself the right to say the same thing that I have some experience or knowledge of life on the islands. And about the process of reading the draft laws and parliamentary debates we from the Green-Left Club have contacted the very inhabitants of our islands and that from the north to the south means from Cres via Hvar to Korčula and they have all agreed that this law for them may be even more important than the Island Act because it is a crucial condition for stopping people from going and making life easier on islands. In the context of the devastating data of the last, last census where we have lost 400,000 since 2011 since '91. 900,000 inhabitants improving the living conditions of our citizens is certainly one of the demographic priorities. And the better connection of our islands to the coast is certainly one of these crucial conditions that we hope to contribute to a better and better quality of life in time, and thus contribute to a better demographic situation. Our fellow citizens, our citizens on the islands hope that it will be a measure for the development of the economy or at least as they say for maintaining an economy without falling primarily on smaller islands. And anything that develops an economy on islands or maintains it as citizens on islands so do we at the Green-Left Block Club consider it a very important demographic measure. I'm also now taking the opportunity to appeal to the ruling, I know it's not yours, but you might consider one of the most important demographic measures for the island's area as an emergency helicopter service. So without quality medical and medical care and care, we'll have a hard time getting back and keeping people on the islands. We talked a few times about it, we proposed an amendment to the budget so far there was no understanding, but after these results of the list we hope that it will also be placed at the top of this government and that we will soon get an emergency helicopter service law in the assembly. No matter how much we all seem to agree with this law, and we really welcome it, and we look forward to it, I might still warn of a few other things that, in the experience of citizens and our attitude, may yet still be done. Therefore, it is spoken in that chapter of public line transport without obligation of public service, so it is especially from art. 42nd, in particular Art. 44th and 6th and amending the law introduces a public competition for public line transport without a public service obligation, which makes it very difficult to process interested economic operators. Based on the experience of the long-term duration of the public competition process by the Agency and the possibility of making public competition complaints, the start of line maintenance in the seasonal period is not guaranteed for this type of line. It is also not clear how the concession provider will determine the lines and how it sets the criteria for selecting the operator. Since it's according to the article. The 42nd line without a public service obligation of a line maintained by the operator for interest and at its own entrepreneurship risk and suggests itself a price list and a navigation order is not quite clear how the concession provider will make it possible to submit comparable offers and how it will ensure the principle of equal treatment necessary for public competition. And now another one, Art. In 46, which can be awarded within 10 years, we would say a reduction in competition and the inability of shipowners to compete on the same profitable line. Next up, Art. 64th, Art. The 64th predicts a regular price change in accordance with inflationary expectations once a year, we would say in this situation a very optimistic assessment. We are witnessing that these changes are now, unfortunately, already large and in the case of further inflation increases, and the adjustments will need to work more often, so we suggest that they are now foreseen in this regard also in the law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in In his predictions of possible elemental disasters, he said maybe even funny, so in art. In 65 and 81, earthquakes, floods, tornados, hurricanes, volcano eruptions, etc. were listed in the list of possible natural disasters. or extraordinary events such as an epidemic of infectious diseases, etc. So, after catastrophic earthquakes and equally catastrophic epidemics, the legislator is expecting the eruption of volcanoes on the Adriatic, I think he should definitely predict the eruption of inflation that is unfortunately currently under way. We also hope that this bill and additional activities of the ministry and the agency will work on what is in the season and most of the outside of the season will also be one of the pains of this transport and that transport, and yet it is a relatively weak link between the islands. So specifically when you want to go from Hvar to Vis, which you see in front of you like this, you have to go to Split, I'm talking about a car, and then from Split to Vis, and now I'm not going any further, let's just say there's no other line and there's no connection that naturally suits economic movements, so tourism, but I believe that our season of better connection between the island would be safe and extended. There's so much of us at the Green-Left Block Club, we'll support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89032	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The club of HDZ representatives will support the Law on Line and Time on Maritime Transport and we hold that it is another step in better transportation of Croatian islands. The law was adopted in 2006, at that time a significant amendment to the legislation which defined the integration of Croatian islands, introduced liberalisation allowing access to this type of traffic through a public tender on the one hand, and on the other hand the Agency was established as a special regulatory body of the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency, which, on behalf of the State, takes place in the order, determining, monitoring the implementation of this law. This law implies when we talk about lines with a public service obligation 51 state line whether a ferry, classical boat or a fast ship whose behaviour of this maritime traffic involves or implies somewhere around 14 million passengers and three and a half million vehicles. In order to be able to do this, those commercial lines that are where shipowners can make profits are also performed by those that are not profitable. The state must allocate around 315 million kuna from the state budget to ensure that all maritime transport takes place. And I think that with this 2006 law, when we are still cabotage like you of maritime transport carried out in the internal sea waters and the territorial sea, we have kept only for Croatian shipmen until we enter the EU, it has been possible to do so until the time of entering the EU as a transitional period in which Croatian shipmen will strengthen what really happened. Today, when we mark 70 years of Jadrolinini, which I also congratulate on the birthday of Jadrolini, it is not the same as it used to be. In the past 15 years, Jadrolini has made a huge leap in the purchase of better, better quality, faster ships and rejuvenation of the fleet, not to mention that with Jadrolini, there has been a significant number of private boaters who have turned to high-speed transport, catamaran procurement, etc. So the situation in the maritime integration of the island is where and where better and neater. And in this way, this law represents, in fact, the upgrade of that liberalisation and the possibility of establishing on certain lines several shipowners that meet the conditions set out by the Agency. It's important and not to be afraid. I said that a little while ago. In 2006, we were then told the ministry that liberalisation would destroy Jadrolinija. In fact, I argued at the time, and today only liberalisation can sharpen business and conduct, rational spending, corporate management, and also a business that carries out line coastal maritime transport, and I am sure that this law will be best far from being financially, commercially, technically best answered by Jadrolini. I don't doubt that at all. Not only that, but Jadrolinija has announced a new step in the purchase of new ships as hybrid, and used where the construction of such ships requires several years of construction from the preparation of the project, and to its realization, and then as a substitute, compensation on these lines will be provided to ships primarily for external islands such as Vis and Lastovo, i.e. for my Korčula and on the very challenging maritime line Split – Vela Luka – Lastovo it is necessary to enter the purchase of a new or used ship, but which is better, stronger, faster than the existing one, given that at this time this ministry together with the Port Authority of Dubrovnik-Neretva County is building a new port in Veli Luka which will be able to receive bigger ships and better and better quality ships. What I would particularly like to point out is that this law makes one step that was in force for a time, and then it was abolished. In fact, originally, when the law was passed and the island law was passed, we predicted that the islander had a vinjet, which has his own privileged ticket on that privileged map could travel from island to island regardless of whether he travels to the island from his residence or to another island. It was suspended later, and now it's back, and I welcome it. Because that's how one of the island's connections is established, and whose users, the consumers are the most isolated. And in this way it will be a contribution to the islanders not only when it comes to their privileged passenger ticket, but also when it comes to a privileged ticket for the transport of vehicles. And that's very good. Here we were talking about, which, as we're going to do, we're going to ask ourselves, I apologize, according to the fact that Peljesac gets an island, gets a bridge, and as more in accordance with the Island Act, the question is whether he should be an island or not. He needs to stay an island. If Pag is an island, if Krk is an island, if Murter is an island I don't see the reason, if it's Ciovo, I don't see why he shouldn't be a Peljesac either. Because it's certainly more complicated than any of these islands I've listed as Peljesac in the demographic, economic situation. And since it is in southern Croatia, since it is quite literally with the fact that the bridge will mean a lot to it still separate. And it should leave Mr. Secretary of State for a while, perhaps not with such a large, strong ferry as it exists on the Trpanj-Ploče route, it should be left for a while. In view of the fact that the Trpans and Peljescans are also connected economically, given the proximity of the Ploča, also when it comes to shopping and when it comes to going to school for students who graduate from primary school in Ploča, secondary school, etc. etc. So you still need to leave that line for a certain time. What is important and what I welcome, which is therefore not mentioned, the law which is still in force made possible, I am sorry, and there is Mrs Urša Raukar, the traffic connection between the island traffic connection which, given the fact that every 5th tourist in Croatia comes to the Croatian island, and then a huge number of tourists who come to the Croatian islands are established... in the whole of the law, so-called. lines without public service and these lines are very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is the agency that should make sure that, that this commercial line without a public service does not question the basic state bond and that the navigation order is more consistent than when a new content is already coming through a new line without a public service obligation to make it one addition to improving life on the islands. This year, between Dubrovnik and Split, which means that both Brač and Hvar and Pelješac and Korčula and Mljet are established 2-3 lines with top catamarans, which is really improved, which is the link between the Central Dalmatian islands that is not remembered in fact and as much as it was a skeptic whether or not these relationships will be filled, how these boaters who are privateers in fact who have now established these connections will be full. In the season there is an enormous number of tourists who go from Split to Dubrovnik and stay on the islands and give one additional value to these Croatian islands and that is what is important. And so far, according to law, it was established and this shipowner was supposed to pay about 0.5% of the total revenue to the agency. These were small revenues, this law liberalizes them. So, by this law, every shipman who wishes to have the capacity, knowledge and opportunity to establish that line can establish it and we invite everyone to engage in this law and its implementation because there is no longer any obligation for the state to carry out this traffic between islands, including with, and with land, except that it pays those services to the port transport, to transport, to tie, to board, to unload, so everything else is his with what clearly has to warn the agency and what needs to establish a shipping order and maintain it all the time, and not if he thinks that the passenger does not have to stay in port. He gets into this system and he's got to keep it going and there's no more, so I wouldn't be here today because there aren't enough passengers. Therefore, this law brings a lot of improvements, I couldn’t even count them all, and in that sense we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89034	Well, Branko's an islander. He's an islander, he's gotta do it. Following individual debates, the first respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89035	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I said and in the replica. I'm glad we have one agreement on this law and its values, which as new inputs, as old retains, and I think some of the new ones that appeared in the meantime are further editing. So in all, I think it brings what the islanders expect, and these are better conditions for maritime travel, clear rules for boaters and of course, and that the state finally knows what it costs, even more precisely than it may have been so far. Here's a colleague of Bacic's when we remember 15 years ago. and the first draft of the law we remember also the time of some debate and the assembly, here is a colleague from that time who was in the assembly and the political battles that were being fought over what the law would pass, and mostly the black hunches and the black predictions for Croatian shipmen and for maritime traffic, and the experience of 15.g. says those who said that were wrong. There were battles about where Jadrolinija headquarters would be, it would be in Rijeka or Split, if Jadrolinija would disappear and here we are today in 2022. Jadrolini in place, celebrating his 70s. I come from the island of Rab, we've got the Rape, celebrate 59. and neatly everyone's doing their job. What has changed over the past few years has shown some data. Which hit us in 2020. and why some of the provisions of this law are also very important, although some have disputed earthquakes, epidemics and all that is important, however, this article will allow, I believe that it has already made it possible or will allow to compensate for the loss that has arisen, and the data show what happened in 2020. in respect of the record 2019, We are 2019. Had 3.5 million vehicles and 11.5 million passengers plus a million passengers in fast shipping and a million and 600 thousand passengers in shipping, 2020 it falls on 7.5 million passengers and 2.5 million vehicles. One terrible fall, almost 30% more and of course the state and the shipowner himself cannot keep the revenues he had, especially the Jadrolini covering the largest number of lines, and I almost say in ferry traffic 95%. So what is important is that the state has shown that it wants to take care of such situations and that it wants to create opportunities by respecting the rules that apply to this EU community and that we can in some way compensate for the costs and that it is not an irrelevant thing for our shipowners, because they too have met with many changes in the moment that they have to think about how much it costs and how much of this free transport we have, each change, how much it costs us means to transport some of the services that we have in the country, means we see everything that is listed in certain articles and that someone has to compensate for it in some way, and therefore these rules by me are much clearer and clearly showing what a colleague Bacic himself said to one of the greatest values that we have again that we can get back with an island vehicle card and travel on all the islands, not only on the island where you live. I think it's okay that this country won't lose I don't know how much income, but the islanders are again what the group that the state recognizes and tries to do maximum. I can't say that I'm satisfied with the list of people on islands and those numbers that have shown up because the real effort of the state and the financial resources is great. And then there we can ask ourselves a question, and what if there were no such effort of the state and what would happen then. So on the local leaders of our coastal island counties it is also to use the possibilities of this law. And there is indeed a lot of initiative to introduce county, interstate and local lines, that small shipers find interest there, that local self-government can subsidize it and that there is an agency as a body that will always regulate it properly. What goes according to the Public Procurement Act goes according to that law, which goes according to the Law on concessions goes to this.../incomprehensible/... and I say one long-term, the possibility of concessions that we have up to 12 years has also enabled many shipmen first and the Rab navigation to restore the fleet and plan their business in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89036	The first replica of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89037	Keep your vice president on track, maybe I'll get a few seconds. My colleague Bora will know that it may be because of my work but in 2006 I was not in the assembly when it was, in 2008, I entered. Uh, I have two questions. First of all, it's about going to other islands with a discount. Okay, but objectively, if there's already money to make it better to cut a ticket to 1 kuna where you travel 100 times than I've been to Rab where I haven't been since 2009 I'll come with a discount if this amendment to the Social Democrats Club is not accepted. So it's a priority issue as well as an inter-islandal connection. I consider if the state steam would rather be one line for Split than one line for Hvar, because Hvar goes much more often. And what Mr. Bacic was saying about the catamaran lines is a good solution. So, as this summer is now made at least in the south, on the Central and South Adriatic from Split to Dubrovnik is a good solution. So it's always a matter of priority. And then the question is whether it's an inter-island priority compared to a better land connection. We can discuss how on which island. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89038	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, as far as the price goes, I'll be honest with you looking at the way we look at rising prices in any other kind of traffic, especially in road traffic. At any moment when the energy rises slightly the price of your bus tickets automatically goes up and there has never been anything reduced. When we look at maritime traffic, I think those prices have been sort of standing in the same way for a long time. I can say that on Rab even compared to that time in 2004 and '05. I drive cheaper for a kuna than we used to ride in 2004. So since 2006 when we're on the road, we're going to take the kuna cheaper, watch out for everything that's been going on in that part when we're talking about energy. And then it means that the state was very good at managing that space, and that the shipowners found their way in which it would work and, of course, that some even here in the system started to pay the state for concessions in the sense that it didn't give them state money like the rapist does, so it works on a profitable line and pays the state concession, from the state doesn't get anything. But this moment which we had pandemics and brought them into trouble at some point. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89039	Next replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Apart from the ships that we define by this law and the lines that we define by this law, the second segment of the island's integration is ports. And without the right ports, we don't need ships, we've been aware of that many times. You were a longtime head of an island municipality, you can say what in fact, and since you participated in the construction of Stinice East and the ports in Lopar, as well as numerous ports that were in the function of maritime integration, that means for life the island is first of all when it comes to the arrival of islands not only islanders but also tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89041	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. So I think that at that time when we could really take care of it, it's good that this government and this minister and, of course, with the support of the Prime Minister that we have the opportunity to build and upgrade these ports, to build new ports as it was built in Cohn, as I say tomorrow, I say build up and in Stinika, but also in some other, lots of these ports on the islands because it's security at any time of sailing. I'll give you an example, we were a little less than two days ago as an island completely cut off from land. So they're blowing a storm and then you just figure out what life on the island is compared to the continent. They're closed and roads and highways but there's always a way to get there. What does that mean? It means that one good port has made it possible for us to make up for it at least a little bit if we don't go to a line where we can't have on the other side of the island a line that has gone through and with an emergency and with all those needs that we can operate in the most difficult conditions because exactly what we did through the island law and through this law goes exclusively to the benefit of saying islanders and their safety as far as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89042	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89043	Dear colleague Boric here's a question, and you may find it banal at first sight, but it's not. The most expensive drink you can drink today in Croatia is a drink on ferrys that charge mah in cafes concessionists, for example. The Supetar – Split line is 35 kuna in the season is beer, beer, and I don't know what the price means in the ferry for Rab and here is your view of whether it is the purpose of this whole story to make someone rich or to extend the additional offer to all passengers who travel or use the ferry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89044	Thank you very much. I don't see any problem with my colleague Zekanovic. I don't see that. I don't see any problem. The one who rents any restaurant on the ferry has entered with his risks, and he knows what he has to do both in winter and in summer, so that he can work as profitablely as he does, and that what he does makes sense, that he doesn't just work so that we have a favor, but he can obviously live out of it. That's why prices are like that. No one forces anyone to have something on that ferry to order, drink, eat, but on these long lines it doesn't mean that you can't have your own, so in a way you can get better while the line is going on, but we can't tell people you're going to take the restaurant, put the prices on and at such prices you can't cover with respect to the number of passengers you have on that line so all day long, so you have two almost and three shifts sometimes since we have midnight lines, you can't tell people you have to or don't have to do that. They're going into the business themselves, and it's good to have these offers. There are lines where we don't have such offers, and then there's a problem with why we don't have them, there's no interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89045	Time. The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89046	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. Surely, the basic goal of this law is to ensure that the island and land are better connected, primarily because of the island's inhabitants, but on the other hand, we are a tourist country and in these tourist months it is very important because of our tourists who come and are expected and are expected to frequent the line, as well as to provide an appropriate standard of service, so it is also a great responsibility on boaters. Tell me, do you think this law is in the way of both shipmen and how it makes it easier for them to provide services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89047	Thank you very much. This law of a colleague has only them in his jurisdiction and the way they must function. I will argue that it is one of the most orderly types of traffic in our country, so precisely arranged through several of the Maritime Codes through this law, through a number of regulations, especially in part of what inspections and conditions must satisfy the shipowners so that they can at all sail which are completely different from the conditions of the shipowner in Greece, Italy, etc., so it comes to us that an Italian shipman is coming with his conditions and is trying here with some ships that are not to sail in this area to achieve some kind of line and subsidisation of the state and help. So if someone is going through actual checks and inspections and everything that they need to go through to have security, and that shows the situation, and I think there's something that we can say that we didn't have haemares and God gave God that we never have them at sea that would be life-threatening to the population or those passengers, and that's where the integrity of the system that really cares about them is shown. And the boaters of big money invest so they can have good results and sail neatly, especially safely. So, All of this is just and exclusively because of them... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89048	Next individual debate, respected representative Mako Kumazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89049	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, secretary of state, secretary of state. As I said before, I absolutely support the adoption of this law, I just wanted to warn you of a few details that you would have to look after in the future. In fact, this law, except that this all sets out to enter three other areas, is one of course the connection between our islands that is most important because our Constitution guarantees equal rights to all islanders no matter where they live. Although I am the advocate of liberalising this, I believe that there should still be certain rules here, and therefore I asked the Secretary of State to give us these rules when they are made to deliver to all of us to the board, and perhaps to all the MPs who are interested in it. I'll give a simple example, it's not the same as the two islands completely adjacent outside of Split, one is Brac, one is Solta for Split-Supetar line would certainly compete a lot of private boaters until for the Split-Rogač line it wouldn't be so much. We often had some say a bit of an ugly postman, I hope Solta liked it, in order to develop the islands evenly they must be adequately connected and when doing a rule, if we are already giving a profitable line to a boater it must include another less profitable line to which he or she, at the same level of quality he or she works and on this line must deliver. We also have to be careful to protect Jadrolini in some way, it is our company that celebrates 70 years, which, apart from that economic component, had this social component that connects those islands that are not profitable, means that citizens, where and on islands where not many of our people live, where there are not many incomes from tourism and that are often and abandoned in winter, are all connected to the queen of the country. Another very important thing is the transition to environmentally acceptable fuels, it is within the framework of the European Green Plan, and in some time soon we will have to adapt to it. Such things should be announced in time and all our shipmen inform of possible rules, because it will certainly collect the service itself, but they must adapt in time to do so in order to be competitive, and all in order to ultimately have our citizens a better service. And the third maybe component that we have dropped here, which is at the moment of the application of these new technologies, and our industry could be competitive in that, often we find ourselves in a situation that because of some of the regulations that we have adopted by accepting European regulations in Croatia there are no companies, small shipyards or small shipbuilders capable of meeting all the conditions to make or participate in the construction of a modern Croatian fleet, whether it is private concessionaries who would work in our shipyards or that it is a state company such as Jadrolini. In any case, we must not lose sight of these aspects, and we must in advance all the regulations and all that will change in the long term with this application of this law, in time warn and know all those who wish to participate in it. I think this is a good law, but I hope it comes with it and a good rule we'll have in time. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89050	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89051	Thank you, Vice President. Cola Kuzmanić, you mentioned green line transport which is the normal future of line transportation and this is a modern now topic that we are about to discuss. Something the ministry did about it, too. You mentioned that it would eventually collect line transportation. I think we should look at it completely differently unrelated only to the fuel of either that sun or any other energy that could give us the green drive. We should watch now, have a strategy in advance how to produce these ships. We have a very good history of our smuggling, we have now and now the first of all in the production of batteries and other power plants. I think we should turn to the promotion of production, not just the acquisition of such green vessels, and I think we might be the first in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89052	Comrade Bačić, here is that you have listened to me a little more carefully in this third part of the exposure I have also mentioned to you that we must enable our shipyards to be competitive at the moment when these new technologies are not said to be applicable, but at the moment when they become mandatory. Whether it's 10, 20 or 3 years from now, one day, I hope our fleet is complete in that environmentally acceptable sense, or driven by some fuels that won't have that much CO2 emissions, or there won't be fossil fuels. It may be in the far future, perhaps long before. So we have to adapt our industry to that. I wouldn't want to see a situation like we had with the fishing fleet, that we pulled huge amounts of money from the EU to practically destroy our fishing fleet completely, and then we declared ZERP, and then there's the foreign minister as a noblely announced map in which the fishing fleet fishing fleet can go fishing in Spain. I mean, these are really funny things. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89053	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what I failed to say on behalf of the club, and I wanted to say a few more words in an individual debate. Namely, when we passed the law in 2006 there was no law, it was liberalisation but they could not report to these competitions of companies that did not have headquarters in Croatia. But we also knew that it had to, that the time would come when we would become a full member of the EU and we would not be able to protect cabotage in a way that we would not allow other EU shipmen to carry out this maritime traffic. But we had one experience Greece had when Greece was in '92. I've passed my law like this. Greece was, at that time, a transitional period of about 12 years to ban other boaters from connecting the Greek islands. Greece too at the time had a tremendously old, unskilled ferry. When a terrible tragedy occurred on a single line connecting the Greek islands and dozens of Greeks drowned at the same time, Greece broke off with the transitional period and opened the maritime traffic to connect Greek islands to all EU Member States. And when it opened again, it wasn't some kind of traffic rush to connect the Greek islands. And then, I say, in 2006, we wanted to make an anticipation of this time that was coming. And that's when we said it, and it's now in effect. And now such a provision is in force. Therefore, the most favourable offer is taken into account the experience in carrying out line coastal sea traffic on the Adriatic and it is not a small wind in the back. No, we just said 70 years ago, there is no boater of course other than Jadrolinia, I don't know the rapist is here somewhere near sailing as a Croatian shipman who has that experience. Even Italian shipmen don't have that experience. Another thing was the obligation for crew members to communicate in Croatian. So these are in a certain way I would say the possibilities provided to Croatian boaters but it is important and crucial that they are good ships, that they are fast and high-quality ships. That's important. And that fact then pushes Jadrolini that she has already announced I say new ships without saying that she has rejuvenated the fleet. I think at 45, somewhere at the end of 2010, she came with an average age somewhere around 21 years old, which is still a lot, but compared to the previous 45 years, that's a dramatic difference. As far as money is concerned, the funds allocated from the state budget. I remember in 2000 I was the chairman of the Jadrolinija Supervisory Board, in 2004, almost 90% of the money that went to the boaters primarily for Jadrolinija at that time and the Mediterranean navigation of Korčula and the Rape navigation went to 210 million kunas in Jadrolinija. In total, about 320 million were reached at the end of that term at 320 million. Today it's 314 million, and it's better maritime traffic. Why? Because of the significant, significant increase in this traffic. It is almost not doubled, but somewhere around 60% is higher than 15 years ago, traffic for Croatian islands. Em contributed to this by laws like this, and the preferential transport contributed to it, and it is somewhat lower income, because it is a lower ticket. But there's a lot more passengers to compensate for having a privileged ticket. So a lot of these factors affected that the state budget for much more lines, for much better projects, for better crew salaries on those same ships in the budget is less money because we managed to make it possible through this law to achieve a significant increase in maritime transport. And the third thing that's important, I'll end up with that, which I didn't say and that's where I replicated my colleague, Boric. All this law can be solved, but without a bow, this law remains an almost dead letter on paper. At this point in my county in order to be able to respond to ships that are getting new ships, better ships are building ports in the Grand Luka at this time. Before the contract, Korčula, Perna is finished Kolocep, there will be an opening in a few days, Kolocep, it is concluded Trpanj, I don't know if I mentioned Perna in Orebić these are ports that are funded The resources of the state budget and what will then be the additional value.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89055	Mariana Puljak is a respected representative, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89056	I thank the chairman. Here's a respected colleague of Bačić, so I agree with most of your exposure in that part when you say, and you also said earlier that liberalisation leads to quality improvement, but here's the same question for you whether that liberalisation has brought the same foreign shipman into our market? I don't think it's as much data as I've got so far. I don't know if you know anything about this. Did any foreign shipman take any lines? We know that last time the secretary of state said that out of 55 lines only 11 profitable others were, that's what you said last time you read 55 shipping lines 44 are not cost-effective commercially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89057	Comrade Pulja, I advocate liberalisation, but you know why? To strengthen, encourage, push domestic boaters, and I do not advocate liberalisation that our neighbours take our cake across the Adriatic, although they will participate in the international maritime traffic with great top catamarans and you often see them in Split and they are of extra value. So it's 2006 liberalisation. I mean the best maritime connection between all the islands in Europe. In that year they had three ferrys none more than a year old. If it hadn't been for that and the announced competition that wasn't up to Jadrolinia wouldn't have been the possibility of what counterpart Bauk was saying earlier that the passengers were choosing Jadrolinia, and that they were... they were choosing a private entrepreneur and that is exactly the fact that it allowed Brač be connected to the top.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89058	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89059	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, 2006. And this first-format law was really a big step, and we've already said something about it, but we didn't just bring it up then to pass the law, so we're going to go to new rules with a lot of fear and I don't know what we're going to do. Remember the restoration of the Jadrolinija fleet, 10 new ferrys coming out of Croatian shipyards, three new catamarans and the purchase of a boat for Korčula and bought for international navigation of Zadar, so then the capacity of young people is rising so the fleet and each of the next governments has also continued and in this period later and now the minister announces again. So in the high-speed transport of Jadrolini must indeed restore the catamarans, they have already caught their year and, of course, the private shipmen have taken their chance indeed. The catamarans that private boatmen have are doing their job. But here we are, I can tell you through a private shipman finally connects Rijeka, Krk, Rab and Zadar which is very important to us in the season because simply these small shipmen find a commercial interest, and this law allows them to do so with the help of the agency and of course their risks they accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89060	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89061	I thank my colleague, Boric. Yeah, not only did that trigger private boaters, but the Jadrolini. Jadrolinija this summer when she saw that the commercial line Split, Brac, Hvar, Korčula, Mljet, Dubrovnik connects a private boater introduced a catamaran immediately and went in the opposite direction, when the privateer goes from Split then leaves Dubrovnik and somewhere on the half at the same time overlaps and tremendously contributes to this one fluctuation of tourists. I went to Mljet this summer in 17.8. counting on buying a ticket without a problem, I couldn't get to a shortcut in Korčula, and an even bigger line was waiting for them to get on that ferry to go to Mljet or Dubrovnik, that's what I mean by that line. And as for what you were saying, we were not in the EU at the time, and we were then using the funds of the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure as was then called the Ministry of Economy and encouraged shipowners and shipyards to build in Croatia, and 10% of shipowners were also building in the Croatian shipyard and then there was the restoration of the Jadrolinia fleet, but and tankers and Atlantic, etc. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89062	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89063	Your Honor, you've made me a little confused with your argument because at one point you said that these privileged tickets and free tickets actually reduce shipping traffic. The point is, that's what you said, so the point of the island card was actually that the state compensated and that the shipers were actually at zero, and that it was an additional incentive by the state to keep the islanders on the islands. [[Intruder Bačić: No.]] Did I get it wrong or did you say it wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89064	I thank my colleague Pavić. It reduces the boater's income, a privileged ticket to me as an islander reduces income, because if it wasn't privileged, you'd pay full. It reduces income, that income compensates the state, that's what I'm telling you. So, the shipowner because she's privileged to me... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, don't lose, but I'm telling you that the fact that the priority card has contributed to increased traffic and even the islanders who have that privileged ticket because it was paid anyway is not free of charge. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, some islanders who might not even leave would not, for example, go to Split from Vela Luka or I don't know from Hvar or Brač when it's a priority card leaving, not to tell pensioners who are free of charge, go to coffee in Split. But as far as they're concerned, they really don't pay anything, but the privileged card allows for the indirect increase in traffic because it's more traffic, that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89065	The latest replica of the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89066	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, you mentioned ports and infrastructures that have improved steadily since the period when you were in the ministry and really when we look at certain islands that had small landings, I can testify in my county, which have received very high-quality ports and ports, and thus also made it possible to develop these islands and individual places, starting with Zapuntel, Molata, Rave, etc. So all of this prompted the quality of life on the island, but also the incentives and tourism and tourism development. So it had multiple effects for the islands themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89067	I thank my colleague Peric, I remember and you remember opening the ports on the islands you mentioned at the time, and that's what I just said without good ports, without good port infrastructure, this law cannot be obtained, this success can be achieved. The project, I don't know if it was mentioned by the State Secretary named after the Ministry of Renaissance on the Croatian coast, I think that somewhere over 2.5 billion kuna invests in the ports of European funds. Just before, I told my colleague Boric that at that time when we were in the ministry, we could encourage both Croatian shipmen and Croatian shipyards, we cannot now but therefore where and where more so our EU membership allows us to build that other part of maritime integration, these are ports. I said a little while ago how many of them are in my county, and so it's everywhere in every island county. At the moment there are very, very large projects for the construction of port infrastructure, which is in the function of transporting the Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89068	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89069	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the proposings and colleagues and colleagues, we have announced that we will support this, this law, but I would like to draw attention to certain facts, thank the HDZ for their conclusion that we are still experiencing this second reading today and that it is not an emergency procedure because I am the law whether nomotechnically, whether through the adoption of the amendment from the first and second readings of the previous one has experienced more than 220 changes in relation to the original, compared to the original text. This means that work should be done, which means that we need to be careful when we write something in an emergency procedure and when it goes into the first and second readings. The fact is that through this text is much better done to dissent what the subsidized lines are and what are profitable lines and the conditions of their concession. Why the emergency procedure makes it clear to me, but we got some pucks, so we're a little forced to write this new law. It's not my idea to protect foreign shipmen, but I can't, we can't be hypocrites and say this law allows, and then red tape stops. At that part of the debate, I was offered a concrete question, i.e. a replica of my colleagues from the IDS, who was talking about connecting a specific port of Porozina where we have no telling a world player, a European player who deals with a liner transport which was bureaucraticly stopped, and then perhaps even the subject of the USKOK investigation in 2020. It is good that we have competition and with foreign boaters, of course, by respecting Croatian rules, but Croatian rules are not only Croatian rules. When we talk about standards related to safety at sea and to any kind of navigation, you have international conventions and have also European standards. Croatia may also have overstandards without further ado, but there we were, in particular, slightly burned, and that it is good to have competition is very good. I'll tell you why because I mentioned as an example of Jadrolini that de facto with QR code can board a ship, I can book and pay the card. However, if I had to go to my colleague Boric until a few years ago, I know that and I could not have used the credit card myself if I had come from Jablanca or Stinica but had to, but I had to ask for this de facto cash, and the ATM nowhere, that colleague Boric knows very well. That is why it is good to have quality competition by respecting Croatian regulations, but I appeal we must not be hypocrites here, because we live in a country called the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89070	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89071	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, this is definitely about one improvement. The law is better, however, there is always some other possibility, the possibility of progress. But I would actually start with that replica I set up by my colleague, Boric. I said it would seem banal at first sight, however it is not the solution that although it is a banal thing for everyone to take their drink in the Konzum and to go with it to the boat. So, I think that then or the concession has to be cheaped that this concessionary can sell drinks at some affordable price because I'm going to repeat that he can't drink on a ferry where everyone and the one who has money and the one who doesn't have money have a price like he has in Westin, for example, so it's unacceptable for me, even though banal, but it's one small thing that makes the quality of life so all those who often use the ferry are much nicer driving with drinks, with coffee, for example. or something other than without it. The second topic that was set out here during the debate was an inter-islandal connection. The inter-islandal connection is a mantra that is constantly mentioned so that in the Sibenik archipelago we would have to go with Zlarina to Capri, from Capri to Žirje even there and there is is is whether this ship goes that way, and in the case of the Split archipelago you would actually have to from Brač, you could go to Hvar on some line or from Hvar to Vis or who knows where. So, I think, I think it's a mantra and I don't know any resident of the irrelevant Pucist on the island of Brac doesn't have much to do in Starigrad on Hvar. It can go there touristic, perhaps when, when it's Big Friday so they're the famous processes Crossing Way is whether or not I see some reason for introducing such lines although it sounds good, it sounds good, but it doesn't make much sense to me, except maybe in the one where someone gets confused, and there were those who get into the wrong ferry and instead of in Supetar it ends up in Hvar, so it's good that there's a line that can be straight back, and not again for Split, but it's extremely rare. Now here's one thing that no one's ever talked about, here I am as a frequent visitor to the island of Brac, since my family lives on the island of Brac, I have to say that despite the fact that this trip to Brač is not too cheap or even I would say it's expensive. For a five-member family like mine with those discounts on those kids' tickets this means in one direction it's 250 kuna. So, I pay the same price of the ticket, not only me, but anyone from Sibenik, Split, Zagreb who is not registered to Brač pays the same price of the ticket as that tourist who comes from Germany. In contrast, the island of Brac, Supetar, for example, He pays an estimated double price even more than twice the price that's right. However, here is a proposal of a respected secretary of state, and that is not a small problem, I think we should introduce another category there to actually be three categories of prices, one for the citizens of our Croatian state, one for the inhabitants of the island, and one for the foreigners. Why wouldn't he? There is this possibility of subsidizing, there is, here is a very nice example there is no one from Dubrovnik here as the Dubrovnikers introduced in their cafes wherever you want in Dubrovnik, actually two prices, even three prices. Here I was recently driving a few days ago in Dubrovnik and you have a price for the Dubrovniks, you have for the rest of the Croats, and you have for the furest, so they break in here, here or here, a taximeter and each charge for another ticket. I personally don't mind it, though, I think we need to make it a little easier for our citizens to traffic. And finally, one specific topic, and that's what I was talking about in the last reading, it's about the boat Jadrolinia Tiyat, which is an old ship that used to be Ohrid, so it was Hrid, so it's been since '97. Tiyate, it was made in 1955. And this ship, regardless of what is extremely old, is one symbol of Sibenik, Zlarina, Prvic, Sibenik archipelago in general, Sibenik Bay, Canal of St. Ante and no matter how old someone would say it should be liquidated and the inhabitants of these islands are extremely emotionally bound to that ship, it's that old-fashioned type of ship that seems not a ferry but a very boat, so here I am from this place appeal that this ship is not sent to the cutting site that's being told but that in every way try to preserve it because there is an interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89072	Replicated representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, I would like to agree with you that the price for the ferry is primarily for vehicles for unintelligible vehicles is not small. To come to Vela Luka with a vehicle and with family for a vacation you can spend two or three days on land, it is not disputed. However, the ships, boats, vehicles that transport us to the islands are extremely expensive to the extent that we often... says when a tourist comes to them and asks the price when he says if they don't know in kunas they think it's in euro because compared to Italy, his emphasis on Sicily in Greece is really below. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't advocate any longer save God I think that's the way it is. And as for establishing different prices between us Croats, and we are not islanders and EU citizens, I am not sure whether this could go away or whether this is allowed because of the equality of freedom of the market and access to these services And the other thing for Dubrovnik here still works I think taxi drivers aren't sure it's the city's policy [[Santer Invader: Time.]] The city makes it possible. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89074	Okay, I said what I saw on your eyes, it stands. Okay, I'll agree with you that there is a possibility of some kind of discrimination perhaps marketable and that the EU may be giving us a problem about it, but here's a mission for the ministry to examine it. Is there any way to make three categories so that the one I don't know of Slovenian, Hungarian, German, since they have three times and greater incomes than us let them make it a little easier for us and here we are with the Vlai who likes to go to the islands and go there to make it a little more favourable for me. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89075	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89076	If these are too expensive, then coffee is bought in the harbor and brought into the boat, no one controls you, we're not in Pula. Yes, sometimes in the debate, so I've been pre-emptived before, let's say that my colleague Zekanovic's debate inspired me with this Tiyat ship, first of all as president of the Friends Group with Macedonia, I'm sorry that the name Ohrid has changed in the first place, but at least it's only O mkolo. This group of ships belonging to Postira, Punat, Porozina, Takovo and Negos, and Negos was a little larger reminds me of the kindergarten period. A group of ships as we call them. The hats plus the ferry Ero reminds me of a group for my primary school period, and when I want to remember my elementary school, I go to the Sumartin-Makarska line, which is precisely because because of the port in Makarska what Mr. Bacic said cannot be a bigger boat, some replacement of the same size, but a bigger boat cannot. When I want to remember my high school then I remember Vladimir Nazor, and when I want to remember my student days then I remember Libya, Slavia, Illyria who went Split-Rijek doesn't drive it either. I'm afraid Liburnia ended up at the cutting point, but we said goodbye to her on Facebook, so here's what I understand when you mentioned the ship, Tiyat. What is worth noting is that the increase in traffic and in particular traffic that goes to vehicles requires not only better ports but also the arrangement of traffic within cities or towns or ports on land and on islands where these ferrys agree because of the large amount of roadblocking vehicle, which jams traffic and disables the everyday life of citizens during that period. For example, while the HDZ was jammed for three months a year, and I hope now that this Center is going to be at least a week less than when it was HDZ and to get rid of it, this is more like Mariana's idea of provoking her on a replica, so something needs to be done not only with the port infrastructure but also at the end of the road infrastructure that connects to the port, to the port infrastructure. So Mr. Secretary of State has one rotor on Brač that we could use if we didn't have this crowd for those who later turned on who didn't see the thumb up, well, then I won't go on, we all do, we all get this in that part clear. As far as I'm concerned, I have to say that in these matters, and not only in the matter of vaccinations, I started to get along with my colleague Zekanovic, and that's what I was saying in the replica, Replica Boric. Indeed, except for those, but such people are relatively few who for some reason are directly bound to work on another island. Large, 99 commas and some percent of islanders who travel in general travel to the mainland, so they travel to Split. If the state has more money than a catamaran line connecting Bol and Jelsa in the afternoon and Jelsa and Bol in the morning we have no other direct connection to Hvar, but objectively most of the citizens of the island of Brac and most of the citizens of Hvar do not need such a relationship. If there is money for, for this relationship then give one connection to Split if there is money. If there's money for a priority card when we go to Hvar once in three years. Then I'd like that money back on the map for Split. So, we shouldn't be making exceptions to the rules, but somehow symbolically, here I was on Rab the last time, you could come on, on weekends during this, and whether someone who goes from Brač to Vis if he goes across Split has no direct line, can have, logically he has this privileged ticket, but if Brač-Split goes, so we drive to Stice, so we go to, to Rab I'm not sure that we should be in a better position than someone who comes from Karlovac to Stinic and goes to Rab. With all due respect and to those who want me here and who want me there, but it doesn't take too much. What's next? When we go across La Manche because we're going to the island to ask the EU for a discount or to Sicily. There's no need to overdo it. So, you have to do what ensures normal functioning, and if there's more, then you might as well ask a little bit of islanders for priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89077	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89078	I would use this right to replicate because my colleague Bauka mentioned a series of ships from the former White Fleet, and he mentioned a little bigger one, and it wasn't the only one that was bigger than a series of poets, so by which there was also a part of the White Fleet, among them, the Vladimir Nazor ship, but I mean there were no more than one, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89079	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89080	I've heard the same thing was Ivo Andric and Vladimir Nazor and, and others, but on the line Pucist-Povlja where I was traveling this was only him when I was, when I was, I pleaded, I was talking about the period of my life, I'm, I'm a few years old, but these ships are even older, and His father, unlike other ships, had to turn where, so in my Pouchies you know, he couldn't turn between St. Rock and Macel but he had to go to the old sawmill, and now this is too big, too localism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89081	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89082	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I'm a little surprised, but if you haven't been to Rab since 2009, then a lot of things will be different. First you will come to a new port on land, then built on an island, then built completely new on the other side of the island, and you will travel at the price, I do not know if you have an island card given your residence, residence and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89083	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89084	Then you'll get the price of the island at 55 kuna if you drive the car with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89085	I don't have a car.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89086	Then you'll pay what you have to, 90 kuna for a passenger and then you'll see a lot of things different than it was in 2009. And as far as ships are concerned, don't underestimate them compared to the high-speed ship because the data says speedboat traffic in 2019 is the strongest year, millions of passengers. Ships, millions and 600 thousand passengers, of which 600,000 passengers of the Zadar-Through line took over the passengers, and the ferry went to Gaženica and there passed another million and 100,000 passengers. So these ships are worth the same no matter how old they are, almost as much as all these new catamarans. Let us not underestimate them, and the minister has promised to rebuild these very ships by new projects and probably also on a different drive if possible. So this government really thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89087	Time, time, answer, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89088	Mr. Boric, I don't know when the last time you were in Supetar, if you get there, you'll also see great progress compared to, say, 2013, and anywhere to come to Korčula for the next 4 years. You'll see the same great progress. If you come to Hvar you will see progress, if you come to Komiž you will see progress, if you come to Cres you will see progress, if you come to Omisalj you will see progress and now I do not list all the island places where we have power or participate in the government If you haven't thought about it then I've overly politicized what you've told me, but I'm glad that no matter who's in power to make this, to develop, to develop our islands and to see this, to see positive changes. [[I didn't mean that.]] And as far as ships are concerned, I don't know, I didn't, I didn't mean to say it wrong, and it rarely happens to me, but I may have underestimated the ships. No, the ships are excellent and this part is now Marijan, Tin Ujević, Bjeljko, Jadran, Croatia and the rest of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89089	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89090	... Dear colleague Bauk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On several occasions today, this debate has mentioned and pointed out that this law is also important for demographic policy, so I'm going to allow myself to come out a little bit of the framework just as closely as this law, and I'm going to repeat what I said on behalf of the club about the need for an emergency helicopter service for the islands. I would ask you nicely because you are an islander, and I am the island's sister-in-law to comment on the situation in relation to demographics and the improvement of our fellow citizens' lives on islands, which will certainly enable them to have this other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89091	Recently, there are a lot of highlighted health care issues on the islands, even on the island closest to the mainland of Brac because we also have a problem with specialists, therefore, and also a problem with the availability of a hospital in Split that is not suitable for sailing or if the resources that are already available are already available to us. And in this sense, it is actually very important for us to create a helipad in the western or central part of the island and also for the helicopter service to be restored. I'm in touch with people who have an idea how to do it, and I believe if we get a chance to make it better. Of course, I'm experiencing it as it can actually be seen as an upgrade, but in a situation where you have no other way to get to the hospital than by air, which is usually during storms or hurricanes, and then the helicopter is asked then it becomes important to us. I didn't do anything wrong, did I?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89092	The latest replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89093	Dear colleague. I met Brač in time, I think you said from your high school it was Vladimir Nazor and Valun, Seshula I don't remember, Sibenik stayed, and as for Tiyata in kindergarten and I would like to stay that's that famous Tiyat. As for the name, the geography of some was not a stronger side, so here it was changed even though it had nothing to do with it. Otherwise there was another twin ship called Valjevo, so the Sibenik turned Ohrid into Hrid, and Valjevo into Val, but here today Valjevo no longer has Val or Val, and this one changed his name to Tijat. And as for now at all, I remember when the Homeland War started in Sibenik, and at some point the exhibitions were breaking down around the city from Serbian companies, and then Vartex got hurt, and it sounded strange, and it was suspicious, Beko, come on, come on, but Vartex got hurt. Just a brief comment on the thermos which is the solution to expensive drinks on the ferrys here's what I want to hear a little comment on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89094	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89095	Ha isn't even a thermosy cheap, if you go once a year it's better to pay you 20 kuna than buy a thermosyre and still fill it up. I'm kidding. I think the catering service is a catering service, so it's even different, you buy a drink at the bar and go usually sit where you would have sat if you hadn't bought a drink, that's the difference from regular cafes. However, I must agree with Mr. Boric that he who receives the concession does not do so because he is a benefactor or what he has noble intentions but to earn something, he must hire some people, he must earn. Well, if we want to drink, then we'll manage in other ways. Thank God they've been abandoned for years, decades and centuries, so we'll manage, and as far as that goes, there won't be any Coca-Cola because of us, or any of these others. As for the names of ships, it is fortunate that the Postiras in Croatia have not yet received a ship called Post.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89096	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89097	238, so now you've shown a colleague that you're a real Bracan with this replica of yours. Nothing malicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89098	You can get me out of Bratch, but you can't get Bratch out of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89099	Well, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no use in a warning. Following the final debate, Arsen Bauk, the first respected representative, is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89100	To stay on what my colleague Zekanovic said that I was a real Braccani I will save you these five minutes because in an individual debate I said everything I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89101	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89102	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I think that in one good tone we've come to the end of a little bit of this debate and that consent is really big right now, you could say that we're going to vote unanimously. This means that the ministry and other reading have done their job properly, that I guess everyone will be pleased because really when we look back 15 years ago, this law has changed a lot, although at first I say when they went into it it didn't look exactly like that, so we who did it also had some doubts about what he was really going to show for a while. It showed what's right. For those of you who ask if we have foreign shipmen, I don't have any, except in international navigation. It's not even the most important goal of whether we have them or not, what my colleague Fabian said, let's not wake up hypocrites. We had one case on the River-Brestov line. I don't know if it's over, it's not over, but we need to see who wanted it. Did someone really just want to be there or wanted to interrupt and come over there so it's kind of a problem for you. And it's a good thing that these amendments to the law can probably solve that problem, even though the procedure will end under the old law. What's important to our shipmen is that they have the opportunity to make it very clear what they have to do. 12 years of concession is really something that makes it possible for a small shipowner like Rape navigation to practically do what we've had so far. Now we've had a 10-year contract and 12 years is great, even better, especially what they're interested in that they can function. My colleague said he wasn't on Rab. I forgot. What would he find? You'd find instead of four small ferrys that we had... that could carry maybe 150 vehicles at most now drive three and two large and one smaller which can carry twice as much and that's certainly the result of this law because it forced them to compete with a big boater like Jadrolini and they had aspirations on such a line because it's profitable. Probably tomorrow, maybe some others, but of course it's the agency that's going to apply what we have here, and then there's going to be the concession law to make it clear what should be in the future when that line goes back to concession when every other profitable. Everyone would drive profitable, but that's why Jadrolini is here to drive what's not profitable, and the state certainly has to pay for it, but now the rules are much stricter than I've noticed so far and there won't be any more excuses and that's why Jadrolini has to start thinking about the ships that are now mentioned. So what about them and how to solve the issue I don't know about connecting Losinj with Suska, Ilovik, with the Union, because if you saw the amount of concession fees on these lines you'd be very surprised with regard to the concession fees that, for example, receive ferry transport on the same non-profit lines. So we would really wonder if it's possible, but since what we want, and that's the basic goal of keeping the population on these small islands, we don't have the right to turn it into kuna amounts. Simply, people there must live, and in order to be able to make the first traffic connection always the most important goal of ensuring it and having a frequency that ensures the normal functioning of life. And then everything else goes from possibility and education and health care and everything else because without traffic, simply an island is an even bigger island than it is by itself. So this story with these changes here has triggered some changes. I also said at the beginning when I thanked the secretary of state we had a problem in one port on land and on mine, my pleasure and on the mayor's activities, the new mayor in a month we managed to launch activities that we had been unable to do for the sole purpose of a director for eight years. So there are always solutions. What is to happen there is not up to this law, but it is very important for us to have this superstructure that should enable everyone to travel normally and to have the services they need to have, and then everything else goes. I think that the prices of the cards are constant over time, there was no big negatives in the sense that the islanders travel and that they pay much higher because they always get a little bit angry when it happens, and it didn't happen many times in my opinion, and we can really show some satisfaction there. And there's always a state here, this year with 345 million kunas to catch up on those possible moments when things that might otherwise not come true could actually come true if all lines were profitable. And unfortunately it has never been, it will not be in the future either, but it is not up to us to read now, but it is clear that we are concerned that the island population can indeed survive on the islands and that it has an appropriate maritime transport service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89103	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President, fellow promoters, I will take this opportunity to speak finally on behalf of the club because I see that we represent truly identical or unique or at least homogeneous views on this, this law, but I will use the opportunity just to appeal to the 2 amendments given by the Social Democrats Club. One is tied to an exemption from a privileged ticket for officials working in another county, and they have a residence on the island. First because they're covered by a travel order, and secondly because they have a salary that I can afford a full ticket in case they travel in private. I must say immediately that she did not, she did not submit to a colleague of Bauk because he had already announced that he would join the DVD thanks to this amendment by a fellow vice president just like this to a little bit, to be in a more casual tone. However, with the second amendment, when it comes to DVD members, de facto nomotechnically corrects, but this would be about operating members of voluntary fire companies, not all members of voluntary fire companies, because otherwise, we will all join DVDs to avoid a map on ferry lines. So I really urge the motionor to accept our amendments. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89105	And a final debate on behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver. Mr. Bilaver, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89106	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs here I really thank everyone for the quality, reasoned debate amongst other things, we had a similar discussion in the reading process and they said good, quality solutions primarily for the benefit of our islanders, and surely that some of the things we have heard today we will be able to use for some new future laws among other things about the Law on the Sea Good, Seaports, which is on our schedule so that here again I thank you all. I've summed up a few of my questions and comments here, so I'm going to try some of them. It was a question for Peljesac, island status or not, Trpanj whether to break the line or not, should be taken into account that the line for Trpanj serves among other things for that western part of the island, the excuse Peljesac peninsula, among other things, for children who go to school. So now, by removing the line itself, we would have to introduce a bus line, ask the question of the opportunity of such a move, but talk about perhaps a slightly smaller ferry or the introduction of a catamaran line or something else should certainly be considered in the future and see how it will behave and what habits will be local, first of all locals by opening the Pelje Bridge. Status, then we should also think about the islands of Ciovo and Pag and Vira and Krka, etc. I don't think that's the way we should go. The issue of your amendment for state officials is not covered by travel expenses by many government officials. For example, the parliamentary representatives are, some are not. There is a question of discrimination in that case. Someone might have a higher salary that way, he'll have a discount, a higher salary than a state official, he'll have a discount. The state official won't. For what? We could thus cite a series of examples. Dear Representative Puljak, you mentioned several times how many foreign shipmen perform the line or not. I assume you were targeting the one who got prior consent from the Coastal Line Agency. That's the only one she's got. There were several who received prior consent. We removed that provision under the new law because there was a confusion where the shipowners would not only take sides, but also domestics who would get previous consent automatically think that they had solved everything. However, there is something called cabotage that both foreign and domestic shipmen and this cabotage is harmonised and that is where I answer to Mr Fabianic and you. It is consistent with all EU directives. First of all, it refers to safety, the possibility of sailing, etc. And that's what's left in this law, that's what's going on with certain rules. I'll just bring and honorary representative Raukar-Gamulin asked me for two articles. These two articles were in the first reading. They're in the second reading now move away and I'll read it to you correctly, let me. Article 45 reads as follows: ‘In order to maintain a line without a public service obligation, a shipowner does not need a concession.’ and Article 46. ‘The ship to which the line is maintained must be capable of sailing’. I think that's something we had to say and sailing is, the possibility or ability is proved between other things and cabotage. Because we had a case where some foreign shipers applied to our national voyage with a ship that, for example, had not sailed Italy for nine years. Then nine years later, they decided to rehabilitate him in Croatia, and we asked that the Port Authority of the Republic of Italy actually give them permission, because it's being admitted to us, so they couldn't prove it to us. So if any foreign shipman fulfils the requirements in his country then he can automatically meet the conditions in Croatia, he gets permission to sail. And there's no discrimination there, I can claim with full responsibility. That was part of your exposure. As for the emergency helicopter service, the fact that it is not established as such now exists, although this is not my very responsibility, there is a possibility, or there are interventions with the MUP-s and MORH helicopters. What we, as a ministry in cooperation with the Emergency Medical Service and with the Ministry of Health managed to launch, was to obtain new six fast-driving vessels that can sail in the largest waves, in the biggest winds in all conditions. The first six in Mali Losinj in Zadar, Supetar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik and Rab are scheduled to be situated. It is a commendable project, among other things, because it is funded from European funds and here we have managed to find a way to withdraw European funds because we as the Port Captain were unable to do so, so we have connected ourselves with the Ministry of Health and the Emergency Medical Service, and here we have fortunately found this model. You mentioned Mr. Bauk, please...... All right, all right, three hearings. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You mentioned infrastructure. At this point, it's good to say so, and if one of them listens to our mayors on the islands right now, a public call from the Ministry of Regional Development to finance exactly similar objects so that someone can sooner, I'd say before establishing an emergency helicopter service make those infrastructure conditions on their island. And here, I think it's just recently been announced that there's still time to report. As for the island connection, it was possible, the possibility remains, I believe that with the increase in tourism that is recovering after the crown of the crisis and private entrepreneurs will find more motive. We are this process as I was in the opening exhibition and said and simplified so that it is necessary only that the vessel is capable, i.e. that the ship is capable of sailing. Of course, the agenda should be aligned with the port and the agency. And all those who are able, who want it, are welcome. The esteemed representative of Ursha Raukar-Gamulin mentioned the eruption of the volcano. I went to check it out. Indeed, when you read it in Croatia it may sound funny, but it is also written in the EU directive from which we had to transpose the text. So I hope we're not the evil prophets that won't happen yet, because it's obviously still missing. But here, that's why it's in the law. We've touched a lot of times today, Jadrolinia. Jadrolini's been here 75 years. The fact is that many lines would not be maintained at least not as frequently as they are maintained. The fact is that we do, so we can tell the fleet a little bit now, but these ships are waterships, these ships are fulfilling their role, and they're much better than many ships in other European countries, and I'm not going to name them now so that their ambassadors don't call me this. However, we can also be satisfied with the service and with, with those boaters or sailors on those ships that we are often in the midst of the greatest storm effort being made and making every effort to maintain the lines and that indeed in the extreme situations the lines of Jadrolinia are cancelled. What the Jadrolinia administration has done lately was pay growth because, because they were unjustly low and they haven't, they haven't worked on it. The plan is also to rebuild the fleet, we are also aware of these shortcomings of the Adriatic Sea itself, the restoration of the fleet, the construction of new ships, which is from European funds that enables us to provide NPOO, the new Operational Fund of Competitiveness and Cohesion. However, these ships must be at renewable energy sources, it must be technically possible to perform, so we probably planned this two to three years ago. Today would still not be feasible. We are in contact with other European countries and with, and with the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding and with a profession that must give us an answer to what ships, what type, what drive. As far as we're concerned as the Ministry and Government are working on building infrastructure because it's not just enough to build a ship, we need to create preconditions, infrastructure in ports, and that's what we're working on, but even before construction because building a ship requires a certain time of designing and building a minimum of 3 to 4 years. Jadrolinia has plans to get where it is now necessary, to get quality used ships, and here I think that, that this is a good way, together with the combination and the other, that we will, that, that Jadrolinija will actually give an answer to the market and that it will succeed not only for the competition but that only this law will allow it to adapt and be better and more serviceable. It's one of the objectives of the law. The ticket price itself hasn't changed in about 20 years, I don't know how much fuel was going in the meantime, especially in the last few months. The rap sail was us, the rap sail was looking for us and she got the consent that JLS, which agencies and ministries because it was such a procedure and they picked up a ticket for 2 kuna for, for personal, personal car. I have to mention that again today, so-called. The renaissance on our coast, which covers all one county. I think at this point all the projects that are ready for implementation, which have a building permit, which meet all the conditions that we have in the ministry accepted them and that they are either in the application phase or already in the performance, but some of us are here and we open like Kalamota in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Tkona in Zadar County, Cres, Cres in Primorje-Gorski County, Crikvenica etc.. That's all, that's all the ports that, in fact, serve to connect, connect our islanders. It was a matter of cards, maps actually of categories and the possibility of introducing more ticket prices for EU citizens. This is not possible because it is the opposite of the directives and the legal property that we have taken over. However, what we have managed to do and what we could do is, for example, we have 3 categories of citizens and 3 categories of people who pay, those who stay on the island for a minimum of 180 days, they have up to 50% discount, and this applies to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and other EU citizens, and to the islanders. The same possibility does not have third-country nationals, so foreign citizens who are not, who are not EU citizens. Here I think I've been able to touch the vast majority of comments and questions. Once again, I thank you all for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89107	Here we have a few replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89108	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, here you have finally mentioned about the restoration of the fleet itself and the green lineage, through the debate we mentioned very little. I think and I think it's definitely the future. I wonder if the ministry has a strategy about it, what we're planning in terms of having now and green public procurement, does the ministry plan to introduce certain support, incentives, production procurement? We know that we have high-quality smugglers, we have quality manufacturers and batteries, you mentioned colleges that have a long tradition. I think that in Europe, but also in the world, since this has not yet been developed at a certain level with the right incentives and the right direction, what you mentioned in colleges and knowledge, but also in the smuggling and battery manufacturers could be Europe's champions, which are precisely related to the production of green, green line transport, so we shouldn't be importing that and knowledge, but also ships on the side, but we should actually produce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89109	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89110	I'd like to thank Agent Bacic. What's important is that we, as part of the NPOO negotiation, negotiated the construction of three, three smaller ones, I would say the ferry, that's the type of Tiat or Postira that we mentioned here today. One's already been assigned to the Dubrovnik area, that's how it fits there. The second is for the Lošinj area and the third is for the Sibenik Islands. And we have five, five catamarans that are scheduled. We are still looking to talk to the European Commission about how and in what way, who should be the bearer of these projects. What's important, you mention all the shipyards here today. Shipbuilding sites should be familiar with our plans, and besides this, we also have the Operational Fund Competitiveness and Cohesion, but it is not the ministry's task because it warns, though we do, but it is not ours to talk about which shipyard will where and when to build which ship. I invite them all to be involved in competition and to win the competition. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89111	Replica, Maja Grba Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. How are they all about everything so now I'm going to do a little bit about everything. I also have a matrimonial background per father, so that's what I'm calling to do with my colleague Bauk and my colleague Raukar and so now from Postira to Brač because my grandfather was born there and my father left Brač at three months of age, but here's my blood, so I'm going to have the right to expect you to make a club for some Bračana so we can talk about it together. But let's get back to this topic. About helidroms, so helicopters go and helidroms, they're important infrastructure, there's a competition for it, but they're being reported by local administration and self-government. It can't be done by the state, it can't be done by your ministry, it can't be done by our ministry. There's this one competition that can cover it, and we could hear the mayor of Supetar having prepared a project, so here's a chance that there we'd really love if there was a helipad on that part of the island that he could land on either the MUPs or this one. Or the one we'll have in the end when we make a deal. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89113	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89114	Here I thank you for once again pointing to this competition that it is, and here I call on MP Bauk to pass it on to Brač. And I have to say that I'm original with this idea of his to buy a drink before, that's exactly what marriage is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89115	The next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89116	And if the drink is cheaper, if it's cheaper on the ferry, they'll buy it in the ferry. Well, yeah, I checked this with the helicopter because I'm all the inaccuracies I had said on the basis of the replica. So there was one case where we had some misunderstandings about helicopter service, but all of what you said is exactly so I can confirm it. As for Zekanovic and the poet, I was wrong, not Ivo Andric represented BiH but Alexa Shantic, Serbia was represented by Vuk Karadzic, Serbia's Negos exactly what I said, Ivan Cankar Slovenija, Costa Racin Macedonia, and the ship Petar Zoranic appeared to me in 1900 with a Greek tanker, so Vladimir Nazor came instead. Kosovo was not yet a republic then. I have nothing else to thank you for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89117	Do you have any answer to this education, Mr. Bauk, perhaps? You don't, okay. The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89118	My dear secretary. I'm going to thank this one, and I'd say for me, as the new representative for the last six months, an unusually constructive debate where we're hearing from each other. I would ask you a question, a few years ago it was established on a time line of hydroplanes that turned out to be, a true god of great importance for the economy so for tourism and had a very good echo and this network was supposed to spread, it was going to Split, Pula, Lošinj, Hvar I think it was also Vis, it was going towards Dubrovnik. It was stopped, there were problems we're not going to talk about. Have you thought in the ministry about relaunching some kind of hydroplane network that I really think would further strengthen the connection and be attractive in economic terms to our tourists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89119	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89120	I thank you for asking. True, wherever I came to the island or places that were connected to the hydroplane, everyone asked that question again when it would be good for tourists and sometimes for the local island population. And I have good news that ACI is developing this project, has a certain concept, plans and was even the idea of doing it by this season. But until a decision is made, however, there is a serious quality concept because they have taken over a part of the infrastructure that existed. We're not talking about planes, but I'm talking about the pontons needed for such traffic, and as far as I know from what I know from the board of directors or the ACI Supervisory Board that it's planned to purchase such hydroplanes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89121	The next replica is the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89122	My dear secretary. To clarify that, so you said, first you would like to say one comment at the price, I don't know if you saw the circle maybe a few years ago by social networks one meme who said why our four-member family would go to Greece seven days on all inclusive when for that money they could ferry to Hvar and back. So much for prices. But this about these consents and previous consents to the additional lines and I don't even know about foreign shipmen, of course, that absolutely now I am not commenting on one case but on the general position, so after these consents, it is necessary to meet, of course, all other conditions that all other shipmen must meet. But I'm saying it's a little bit symptomatic that since 2006 when we started introducing it, it's going to harmonize that so far there's not a single one. Is it just that they're not interested or they don't meet the conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89123	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89124	I appreciate the question. The previous consent was actually served because someone who was interested would come to the agency and ask if there were any obstacles, whether they overlapped were overlapping. We have removed these barriers by this law, but whatever these ships came from, none of them met the safety requirements. I would really like to come and foreign shipmen who are of quality because it ultimately contributes to quality and service, but this has not been the case so far. And I say, there's one obligation of soft so-called. The soft commitment that the European Commission allows us where we have left the possibility of protecting the domestics I would say to the shipowner, which is that if you want to get on the line that you subsidize the state that you still have to have the whole annual line, just so much, however, it is something that the European Commission allows us to do. So, all in accordance with the directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89125	Followed by a replica of respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89126	Your Honor, I don't think it's discrimination because government officials, and it's not exactly like that under the State Debt Act, we need to treat civil servants from civil servants or substitutors. And also to point out one other thing, which is that people who are citizens and who have a higher salary than government officials are full of budgets, and government officials have salaries from the budget, so this is not about discrimination, but this is about equal treatment with citizens living on islands, who are not in state, who are not in state, state officials. To compare the other words that I would go to my colleague Boric, I have to pay for a ferry ticket, and in order for him to get to me in Rijeka, he has a privileged map of whether it's the same form of discrimination or I join the DVD, so we'll have the same conditions, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89127	Okay, here we have had a really high-quality argument so far I wouldn't go into the sphere of populism, but neither in, nor in the competition can we comment later on a little bit. I still feel that neither Mr. Bauk nor Mr. Boric nor Mr. Bačić or any other secretary of state who is not covered with such travel orders will I now know not who is all the official of the state, yet here I am, who am not from the island, showing respect to those who live on the island. If we give so much rights to all other groups of people, then we can also give to officials, among other things, because they are fighting for the progress of these islands and I am glad that we can realize that our islanders are satisfied with this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89128	Thank you, Secretary of State. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. And last item: - MIP report Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Vinko Zulim. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovic to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89140	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament considered 22. The session, held on 20 January 2022, was written by representative Luka Brčić on the re-behaving of the parliamentary post addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 27 December 2021. The Commission has established that it is under Article 14(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives began on 25 June 2021, and that on the same day, the deputy representative's duties continued to act as Vinko Zulim. As Luka Brčić made a written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline, pursuant to Articles 14 and 3 of the Law, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so the rest of Luki Brcic's term of office ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application. On the same day, the conduct of the representative's duties as deputy representative, Vinko Zulim, ceases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs. On 4 January 2022, the term of office of representative Luka Brcic ceases. The deputy deputy representative's office ceases to act on Vinko Zulim on 4 January 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-26-0.u89141	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Has anyone called for a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the amendment. I would like to inform you that tomorrow, apart from the planned points for tomorrow, we will discuss the selection point, appointments and resolutions. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon, everyone. Session adjourned at 17.25 p.m. The stand on behalf of independent Hrvoj Zekanovic follows.
