ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102963	Thank you. And the final statement of views on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102964	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. If the language were a shovel, and the lying construction material some would end this season in the Assembly so that in this place instead of this building that someone else built on different grounds there are only three when and is not particularly luxurious but it is still there and still represents something for both the Croatian state and its people representing the state and its legislative authority, such new neem would be that the language of shovels and the lie building material in this place would probably build a tower that would be more than a tower of Califa in Dubai and which is 868 meters high with antenna. And two days ago, without any respect for the builders of this building and what it represents for the Croatian people is a man named Daniel and his last name is Spajic, nominally Secretary-General of the Homeland Movement, and in fact, the coordinator for the promotion of lying, inventing and gossip, he took a hard swing at that shovel, and thus, by doing so, he used the building material abundantly to comment on a conversation that I had at one point in Vukovar with a member of his party and now his president, whom he did not know anything about and about which neither Penava nor I had any need to say. And he lied by making the most possible accusation that me and the party I belong to were asked not to prosecute war criminals in Vukovar, to give it up. Monstrous, because the whole conversation was about what still needs to be done to process these and to speed up these processes. In order to gain 30 lilies and 2 shares on his Facebook, I was declared the protector of the executioner of Croatian peoples, Croatian defenders and civilians who gave their lives to the Altar homeland. And when we talk about respecting this high house and what in the sense of clothing they encouraged a week ago Croatian sovereigns I have to say that I prefer, more charmingly dressed people than sophisticated liars and hypocrites with ties, in suits that are ready to make some of their petty party profits at all. And that is unfortunately the range of a man who is the chief secretary of a parliamentary party who is trying to show that he embodys, personifies, symbolizes what the party wants to represent, the last train of salvation for the Croatian state of Croatian people. And how would he save Croatia and the Croatian people? Lies? With computers to hurt, to show a fake light, to hit an identity and to hardly and preferably compromise irreparably. And he didn't mind that he had absolutely no idea what he was talking about. I founded a side and a movement that resulted in the creation of a state, and I didn't go off the ice. I'm on my way because someone prepared me for it. Grandma, Grandpa, parents, family. On Wednesday, all of them, the man who came to the Homeland Movement because they needed someone to change the lock after Skorin's departure, and who was wheezing patriotism while with his lies he was destroying everything that patriotism should represent. All of them were gravely slandered by that man. The prophet Daniel was a royal race, and his name means God is my judge. I doubt this Daniel knows anything about it. He was Daniel, whom the slanderers were stoned for, and this one himself became a slanderer in search of a reward. And the problem is, that's not his problem. Tomorrow he's going to go to mass, and he's going to say hello, and he's going to play that Daniel guy by his name. When asked about events in the party as a French secretary-general, he said that I was not at those meetings, so I can't and I don't want to comment, he said that he didn't like bar stories because he didn't say anything and until he knew that he wouldn't comment on anything, and then he became engrossed and facelessly lied. The fact that he lied can be easily checked, and I am at any moment ready to talk about this and beyond. if it's necessary because unlike some of me [[Intruder: Time.]] I don't have a problem with the truth. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102965	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102966	The President-in-Office of Article 238 shall present false facts. With full respect for the right of the respected representative of Kapulica to say what he means and what he feels because that is what this parliamentary form is intended for, I just need to draw attention to the fact that Mr Spajic is not called the party's chief secretary, but that he is completely legally elected to that position. That's all I wanted to warn him about. And as for anyone's moral responsibilities, they will naturally judge the people. As far as we can tell today is State. Attorney's Office and SCIENTIFICATION in Varazdin [[Intruder: Time.]] And one party is mentioned again. [[Intruder: Time.]] Mr. Capula will know which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102967	You used this as a replica, and you know that the replicas don't have an attitude, so I have to give you a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mario Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102968	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102969	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102970	A fellow Mr. Spajic only knew how to tell him in the defense that I said something I didn't say was so-called. He's a very real, true and authentic Secretary-General of the Homeland Movement. Okay, a real representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u102971	And you get a warning because you used this as a replica. The next statement of view is on behalf of the Green-left bloc representative club, respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u103282	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I will start a speech with my wish to congratulate and thank all firefighters as well as the citizens who participated yesterday in the derailment of a truly catastrophic fire in the hinterland of Sibenik. We've had a case of a big fire in Pula recently, and you've probably followed that up, and we can see, in fact, that heavy accidents that we're not used to getting used to more and more often. And then yesterday the prime minister, coming to Sibenik, says we cannot, please, influence the dynamics of climate change, heat and increased fire risks. Yes, Croatia itself certainly cannot affect climate change, heat and increased fire risks. Croatia is one of the many countries in the world that should invest whatever size it can at least start and then successfully finish the green transition. On that road we're on our way, so we're stopping a little bit, now we're standing up like most of the world has to be said because of the big crisis we are in, but we forget that the much bigger crisis is constantly escalating, which is precisely this ecological crisis. But how else can we influence? In addition to preventing climate change, we should also work on strategies for mitigation or adaptation. That's exactly what our club does in every analysis, in every analysis of the budget that comes to us here in the House, in every analysis of the proposed budget rebalance that comes here in the Assembly, we focus. We focus on more investment in those systems that will allow us to fight the consequences of climate change that we already have. So we asked for more investment in civil protection every year with a clear argument, and each time these amendments were rejected. I'll read you what we asked in the budget for 2022. We asked that at the position of the civil protection system the amount of 10 million, 10 million kuna be increased to 110 million kuna. Why? We said the civil protection system has been negligible for years which has led to the de facto of its collapse, on the other hand, security challenges are increasingly related to climate change and various natural disasters for which Croatia does not have a ready system of answers, but rather assigns these jobs to armed forces or other stakeholders who are not trained for these challenges. The concept of homeland security has proved ineffective in response to the coronary crisis, the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, as well as other challenges that bring us climate disasters, and it is necessary to build a strong civil protection system. We also asked for the position of civil protection projects to increase the amount of miserable 613 thousand kuna to 10 million kuna, and that is a little bit to be realistic, but that is not adopted either. We also asked for a new item to be opened in the position of the Ministry of Defence to be equipped with emergency medical helicopters because we need emergency medical services and we need helicopters for emergency medical services. All that we proposed was to make a part of the resistance to the disasters that are coming to us, all of which unfortunately were rejected. And I'll say one more thing, today I got information that firefighters aren't covered by a collective contract for state and public services. If that's the case, and I haven't checked it out, that's the information I got, but if that's how it is, can we at least get those who are on the first line of defense from the greatest threats to ensure quality working conditions? Here's what would end up with that thought, I hope someone heard me, especially in the department to provide them with normal working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u103600	The following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u103601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say, given the subject I'm thinking of saying is extremely glad that you're the one who presides because you'll fully understand what I'm saying. For several weeks in the Croatian public, it has been said that from subjective, more subjective, and less objective reasons in the fire-fighting season we enter with a smaller number of proper aircraft to shut down, popularly in people known as canaders than we could have on the basis of our capabilities. The clarification of this situation certainly does not contribute to me by a completely inappropriate way of relations with the public of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia that journalists who have been monitoring the defence sector for years actually point out that there has never been a worse situation in this matter, so basically we do not have a clear, honest and accurate answer about what the real situation is and whether there is a system of responsibility because of such a situation, there may be objective reasons, but until we have no information, we cannot even know what the reasons are. That is why yesterday's fire in the hinterland of Vodice in Sibenik-Knin County has again updated the issue of our readiness for the fire-fighting season. I believe about the motivation of firemen of Earth equipment and what, we see every day that this motivation is great, that the ability is great and that the sacrifice is great, therefore we always give people who participate in it all the recognition, and here I hope that the part that I have free ferry can finally live up to when you've already given the Vice President the amendment, but in this part of the relationship with the public of the Ministry of Defence and the readiness of the fire-fighting fleet we haven't received adequate answers and we would like these things to be clarified, if it's military secrets then it can also be held in closed sessions of the parliamentary working bodies. Firemen know how to say that fires are actually the best thing to do when they're not up there before, so certain preventive actions. The facts and all the things that my colleague Bencic said that we'll probably be facing bigger and bigger problems over climate change in the future, but that's something we know. As winter service always surprises snow in the 12th month, we are not surprised by the fire, unfortunately not in the 6th, not in the 7th, not in the 8th month, but mostly in the coastal counties and to the greatest extent of summer, and it is certain that our priorities in the civil protection system need to be adapted to that situation, and this is more investment not only in the fire as such but also in the fire-fighting aircraft. At this point, it turned out that it might be good that the fire fleet within the Ministry of Defence is being facilitated, however, by making it easier in some bureaucratic matters regarding its use and the rest, but it is necessary to start to think if the EU does not change its position to transfer it both nominally and formally to the civil sector in order to be able to use European funds for, therefore, to get new aircraft and to make the existing system better. It is possible, of course, that soon because of the new defence security situation, the EU is allowing investment in the defence sector, but until that is the case, it should also consider it. Of course, I would have if I'd made this free speech last week a little bit sharper, but it's always dangerous, when there's a current situation where someone doesn't remember and they say that they use the situation to collect cheap political points. I don't mind collecting cheap political points, but I'm afraid these points are getting more and more expensive for whoever loves and collects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u103602	Here's what we're done with, or there are four canadians in Croatia, so it's not exactly the condition you said here that there's no firepower, and also when there's big winds, when even the biggest fires can't fly. Since it's 1:00 p.m., we're now going to take a stand. The first is the registered Club Mosta. The Honorable Representative, Plasimir Troscott, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. He's gone. And there's none of these people here, and then they're gonna complain that they all lost their rights. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next statement is on behalf of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club, respected Dalia Oreskovic. ... The white guy set this all up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The third statement is on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, respected Stephen Nikola Bartula. And the fourth one was respected by Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj on behalf of HNS's representative and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u103743	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In recent weeks, we have witnessed the increasingly pronounced exclusion in public space and the collapse of political and parliamentary culture. The speech of hate, intolerance, insult, lack of decency and disrespect for diversity becomes our everyday life. And this assembly speaker very often becomes a platform for offensive and uncontrolled communication that contaminating public space. As a result of collecting cheap political points, this place unnecessarily becomes a point of dissipation of hatred and intolerance. We are increasingly witnessing extremely harsh and inappropriate verbal outbursts and shameful actions specifically directed towards MPs, at a personal level that I consider not only to be a violation of elemental jurisdiction, but also a form of harshest discrimination. With the lack of culture and public dialogue, avoiding responsibility, it seems to me that we are going backwards. We allow society to be segmented as tolerance as a value that integrates human rights, pluralism and democracy pushes on the margins of society. I personally advocate open and reasoned communication based on verified facts and believe that political and moral responsibility should be a priority in the exercise of public duty. It is precisely because of the ignoring of political and moral responsibility that citizens lost faith in the political system and all the good that quality policy results in. The speech of hate and threats is not just an individual's defeat, but an entire society that wants to advance. I believe that all of us here want our society to move forward. We must never forget that we, as representatives and representatives elected by citizens, have far greater responsibility for every spoken word and that the trust that the citizens have shown us must be justified daily by our work and behavior. So together, let us show not only the declarative but also our own example that the culture of dialogue, the presentation of facts and arguments and civilised defences can also be cherished in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108851	Let's go to the next point, it's: - Selection, appointment and resolution Please member of the Committee on Selection, designation and administrative affairs of Mira Totgergelia to explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108852	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 31st session held on 14 July 2022. The first proposal is a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. First item, for a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Luka Brčić is elected. The second item, on 14 July 2022, of the member of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of the Croatian Parliament, stopped acting as Mato Čičak because of the termination of the parliamentary term. Can I make all the suggestions? The second proposal is the Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union funds of the Croatian Parliament. The first item, for the member of the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds, of the Croatian Parliament, is the Magdalene Commission. The second item, on 14 July 2022, of the member of the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union funds of the Croatian Parliament, ceased to act as Mato Čičak because of the termination of the parliamentary term. The third proposal is also the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is dismissed, Doctor of Science Marko Primorac. These are the proposals set out by the Committee at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108853	I thank and open the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108854	So here's a teammate from HDZ boasting on Twitter that there's no opposition. There are now two in the Croatian Parliament, the three of us, and 76 of them from the ruling majority. The chairman must be here. So that's why I called in for a hearing, but I called for an argument over one more thing. Namely, the ruling majority will, and already at the moment, depend on the man under investigation by UskoK Drazen Barisic. I didn't now because I thought I should check in, I didn't hear you name a board. It's not this time, but it'll probably be. And the question arises how morally is it that one ruling majority depends on representatives of national minorities who have guaranteed seats in the Croatian Parliament and on a man who is being investigated by the USKOK and is not alone? There's a colleague, Boris Milosevic, right, who I personally think is a man, that he got into it, and that's what they got him into, that Milorad Pupovac got him into it. Doesn't seem like a criminal to me. But here's Drazen Barisic is under serious accusations by USKOK. And can this Parliament at all, can this ruling majority function this way? Can this Committee meet at all and how fair it is for Croatian citizens? Instead of returning the mandates in view of the amount of officials who have been hit by independent bodies, which is the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, which is our USKOK and the DORH and to return the mandate to the citizens. I was looking at it, and I said it in the debate the other day when this Commissioner Murter case came out. Andrej Plenkovic is happy it's not about HDZ. This guy spent money in a brothel. So, and Andrej Plenkovic is bright because he's not HDZ. So it's quite clear that this situation is unsustainable. People are sick of corruption and these affairs. And I personally feel like the president of the Anti-Corruption Council is actually more about these affairs than I am talking about, so like people, a lot of it. And I call on this place to return the mandate to the Croatian people, to discuss therefore early elections, to agree on the date of elections. The HDZ will say that they are excellently said to be the strongest in the polls, but if so, then that is another additional reason for them to agree to this offer. So let's get the mandate back to the people, let's call the election. You are the strongest, you will win again as you recently won in Split. So you're strong. ... Or, like, well in Sinjo Miro that's a long time ago. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know you're still in that euphoria of victory. It's been a year. He's doing well, he's doing well, but that was a long time ago. But I was with a professor of the Hoods from college and he told me I didn't hope that Miro Bulj would be this operational. Here's to being mayor for being commendable. And I hear she's opening her kindergarten soon after a year, so she'd be fine. Well, it might be good if he called Pulka. [[This is not a free speech.]] And Mayor Tomasevic would like to see the kindergarten open in a year. [[Is this a free speech?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108855	Miro Totgergeli Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108856	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First, counterpart Barisic has his original mandate, and this point that we are discussing today is not at all the subject of the debate, but the choice and appointments where counterpart Barisic was not even mentioned. And secondly, you bridge colleagues know very well that under the same conditions they sit here in the SDP Assembly parliamentary deputies, and that doesn't bother you at all, you don't mention them at all. With them, when you need a brother-in-law, you do everything you can. But now you are complaining about a colleague of Barisic who has the constitutional right to return to the Croatian Parliament as well as everyone else. But what's even more interesting is that you mentioned Split. You don't mind in Split collating with Puljka and his deputy, who is also under trial? You don't mention that. You will have no problem supporting Puljko in Split, and you mentioned now yourself here Split. So don't have different criteria for ruling and for you in opposition. At least try to bring it down to the same, especially different criteria when you are with someone in power as you are now doing in Split, or different criteria when we are here in the Croatian Parliament as you say you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108857	Miro Bulj individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108858	Thank you very much. Here's a good opportunity to discuss when we talk about replacements on the board, about the situation in this assembly, on committees. You told your colleague that we were on tour with Puljka, that we were on tour, I don't know what you were counting on. However, you're scurrying with everyone. You're scurrying with Pupovec, you'd be scurrying with the black devil, the devil, just to keep power because this Parliament has lost its dignity. You're being run by Milorad Pupovac at the moment and he's an alpha and omega, he's an alpha and omega of this government. So I don't even know the meaning of your messages here. ... But as far as the Parliament and parliamentary majority are concerned, it would be much more correct to go to the elections, much more correct than to depend on Milorad Pupovac's guaranteed place that he needs to get several hundred votes or one vote by Furio Radin that he has received one vote and that you are managing and saying that you have a majority. [[You don't understand.]] You don't have a majority. You have a obedience to this government that would be good to be tested. You always boast that you stand well in the polls. So go to the elections, go to the elections, and in democracy... And for the first time in history when the Bridge came to power were extraordinary elections. [[You don't understand.]] And what happened? While she was a technical government and the greatest successes were governments. However, I would now say about Croats outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. I see you named mine, outside of Croatia, I see you named my Sinjanin i.e. Chetinian. Today he was discussing the subject so there was no Luke Brčić, which is good and commendable. Otherwise, a great fan of the same subject. As for the minister, I don't know what he's saying. I cannot understand at all that such a man has appointed as a minister because apparently Andrej Plenkovic sought simple form, he probably asked the foreign ministry who knows two plus two. Those who have raised their hands cannot be ministers, it is likely that Grlic Radman came to this logic, where the debate tonight after this speech, after this assurance of patriotism and patriotism is amazing who the ministers are, so it would be much more fair after the whole government's shift to go to elections. I've never personally feared them, even if they match me, I've told you and any local or any national level, but you have very cunning, you compare the local level and the state level. Local policies are something else, local policies are municipal policies, and national policy is something else because in Split, in Sinj, in your town, in Zagreb, it is very, not important who is left, who is right at local level but important if we have a sewerage that we have all the sewers, if the triba kindergarten has all the kindergartens, it is local politics, and you would soak us up and bring us back to division because otherwise you can't exist, the other is local politics, quite something else. There's a problem, there's a problem, here's Ante Sanader, there's a lucky thing I didn't run for mayor would probably shut him down, there wouldn't be a county, but there's the rest of it on this. Here, so much for me, I can see there's no replica, make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108859	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108860	Thank you. And without this candidacy from your colleague Bulj, Ante Sanader is in big trouble, so his structure in Split-Dalmatia County is in big trouble and we'll see how it goes. And as to whether our Split Bridges honest people will be part of the Split government, we will see that, but they certainly won't be with criminals and thieves, so that, it doesn't, there's no talking about it. And as for what you said about whom this ruling majority depends, and not only does not always need the Pupovac and the SDSS depend, but it depends on the jumpers, so on the people who are being investigated, so people who are being blackmailed can be blackmailed by anyone, some foreign force, someone who has some interest in the Republic, and that depends on the Croatian government, so is that normal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108861	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108862	First of all, you'd agree to Yosko Marcoch and... and everyone else that is extremely honest in Split and that I believe they are constructive, they have made the most of the proposals and solutions for the citizens of Split, the Splitians will see to it that they will continue in the interest of the citizens either opposition or most of them I know it and I believe it because I know them and I am extremely proud of what I know of these people, what I cooperate with these people and I will always be behind these people no matter what decision they make. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I once said, it asked me in the county, there was an opportunity for the entire opposition to take over the assembly for the first time so there wouldn't be any more HDZ and that manoeuvre Kerum who was a humanitarian aid from a manist on the hills selling and then I said, "Who are you going to collage with?" With HDZ simply, with everyone else, yes. You understand, and I'm not ashamed of it, you've destroyed the county, with everyone but HDZ and Kerum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108863	Time, time. The replica Mario Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108864	I don't know how on this subject we've come to the topic of calling an extraordinary parliamentary election, and when it comes to that, it's normal for the elections to be held after 6 years. in the opposition that it's very difficult to wait for two more, but it must be very frustrating and perhaps it would be good to propose an amendment to the election law, and about like this, elections are every 4 years. Unless HDZ wins, if HDZ wins, then every six months until he loses, that's not how Mr. Bull works. And as for your structure in any county, and not in Split-Dalmatia, you have no problems with the structure, you operate at the level of the coordinator, you do not allow people to join your party because you are afraid that you will be joined by a HDZ officer after 12 years. The existence of a party has as many, 600 or 700 members. Look, it's not much of a basis to talk about a structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108865	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108866	Well, yes, extraordinary elections are sometimes better than this power, I can say it right now. I will never agree to be, this power to give a positive assessment that it has accumulated, to allow 500% of the currents for pumping water and for Split, for water, for basic human rights, and there will be problems, which will be a battle, which will see how it develops, I am a river I do not have to be a representative or mayor, we will see if the elections happen again and this government would have to resign. I came here once with an egg, some of the terrorist act that he wanted to present to Andrej Plenkovic, but then I warned about what would happen if the plumbing could speak. And otherwise, as far as the election is concerned, the elections are legitimate, the first political option that went to the elections was six ministers, it was the Most, you know it very well that the elections were repeated, we weren't afraid of the elections, so no choice is a better choice than any government that currently has no legitimacy other than Milorad Pupovac this Italian minority and so on. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108867	Time. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108868	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, you're actually chasing pots, all the time except when you were in power then you showed that you have a desire to deal, to negotiate, to drag into the place of director in Croatia water, here, there, then you wanted to do something drastic overnight, and then overnight you left the government and the whole, all the time you're grizzling in fact, all the time you want to say that whatever HDZ is doing is wrong, and then you're being denied by citizens in the elections because in the elections before 2.g. HDZ won again. And when there was a coronary crisis and then all along you called people not to split both here and there, and if the government hadn't done exactly what she was doing, so where would our economy be today? How could you be doing something in Sinj if it wasn't for the government? She's been making moves that she's been making. [[Intruder: Time.]] So you completely missed the pot. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108869	That the government was just making moves... I'm proud that I didn't respect that decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have thousands of inspections, thousands of reports I don't know how many of these court disputes I have because I didn't respect these sharp measures that were essentially purpose to myself, but mostly you didn't respect and that staff that took power in the state essentially was carried out the way this one did this one. And one more thing, fellow Capulici, we're not afraid of the choice just to let you know, and that's what I proved in Sinj, you saw in Sinj, but in the county we're the second political option I've been carrying the list. Secondly, I'm not, like, here's what I'm not a member of MOST and what it means now, and MOST is the best political option, the best and you're the most afraid of it and the most you mention it. And as long as it's up to you, believe me, we're gonna get these people to power soon, I don't even have to run anymore. The political option will come to power [[Intruder: Time.]] Then you will see [[Intruder: Time.]] how rh is managed [[Intruder: Time.]] with this experience. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108870	"Specially Nikola Grmoy."
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108871	My colleague Bulj you are absolutely right comes the time so when we will take responsibility for Croatia, and HDZ makes everything possible to get that time closer and closer. So why am I saying this, so first of all, their corruption scandals and the fact that the ruling majority are made by people who are jumping indictees, the fact that together with the SDP on the eve of the crisis that awaits us in the autumn are negotiating amendments to the Constitution that want to limit the referendum. So, which they want to make it impossible for citizens to say their views on important issues between the elections. So that's what will ensure, which will ensure that we take responsibility for this country very quickly. I hope that this crisis won't be so much to lead to street demonstrations, but they seem to do everything to make it happen. First they stole the referendum, so we tried to channel that dissatisfaction through the institutions, they stole the referendum through the Constitutional Court, and now they want to completely disable the referendum and when the street happens to them they will wonder why, why it happened. But what they've reported for this debate, and I'm certainly asking here as a question to the vice president of the Anti Sanader Assembly whether it's normal for the ruling majority to depend on the people that are being investigated. Is it normal and can it work that way? Can the constituency committees that we have here have appointments continue to work like nothing's going on? Are we still going to close our eyes to that fact just to stay in power as long as possible, no matter what happens in the country? And my dear colleague, the situation in the country is very difficult, very difficult. We're entering the euro zone, which is why our prices are growing further. We do not suffer so much because of the war in Ukraine, it has not hit us so much yet, but we suffer because we went to prison, not just us, but the whole world and Europe, that money was being printed in the European Central Bank and in the Fed, and now we have consequences. And they are now using speculators to further raise prices, now everyone in Croatia is using it because let's go take advantage of it now, anyway inflation will raise prices when the euro is introduced to then, not to raise it and all of it is used, the Croatian citizens suffer. I don't know if you're aware of the situation Croatian citizens are living in right now. You brag about something, ask some citizens, come tomorrow here, take a colleague's Hood by the hand and walk around Zagreb and ask people how they live. Ask, so you two don't have to hold hands, you can, you can walk together here. I Bulja, so I don't need to take Bulja's hand, me and Bulj are often, me and Bulj are often among citizens and we know what the citizens think about the current situation in the Republic of Croatia. And here I invite you to question whether this makes any more sense, this much corruption, this big affair, the fact that the ruling majority is so thin 76 hands, Cacic brought you creams, thanked you, he'll say he's been voting since autumn, and he's gone. And he sees that this Plenkovic corrupt ship that it's only a question of when, so if anyone knows how to judge when to cross over, it's Radimir Cacic who I think of him, but he certainly knows how to recognize the timing. It's long, it's an experienced fox that's been in politics too long. So, if he's raised his hands from you, then you know that, that's not good. And now the Temple is telling me, "I screwed up." It's like I'm '45. He went to the Ustasha, told me in the hallway. I say, and your temple, your choice. So it's not a situation, it's not a good situation for you at all. It seems to be something now that this ship is sailing, but it's going to run very fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108872	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mario Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108873	It's hard to say everything you need to react to, but they're just one thing to say. What are we discussing? I'd pray, I think it's midnight, I know the concentration's a little low, we're discussing this difficult economic crisis, the referendum, the hand-walking. What's the topic? I'm a little lost here, so if you can remind me of what we're actually talking about and on what basis you're finding out who this agent is. Who holds the ruling majority? [[Intruder: Time.]] I've been in the belief so far. that it is Zdravka Busic and Gary Cappelli because if they are not in the ruling majority [[Intruder: Time.]] The ruling majority is gone and I think that actually Zdravka Busic and Gary Cappelli are managing this government and this country. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you have no idea about it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108874	Time. Miro Bulj replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108875	Yes, here I would just like to ask you a colleague of the bush and a question. So the government, the Croatian people expect a major crisis, we all know that. The government's piling hands say it's up to 10% energy, and I'm going to point out that 500 percent has raised the price for water delivery. And that's funny to you, buddy, the denominator. 500% and now she's transferred it to the local leaders of her colleagues, Grmoi, so that we can collect five times the water for our entrepreneurs, where the labor must be lost mainly in the mountain-mounted areas. The mayor... Shut up, Drnisha, why are they silent, and I'm told in the hallway that I'm in the first 100%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now ye shall come, of course, to the Alkah of Sinai, and we call you, and behold the light of the feast of the people in their eyes, how ye shall light the darkness and put out the water. Five times the cost of electricity for basic human rights. That's what's waiting for us at the 9th month of the 10th, when I was with the egg then holding that egg you laughed, but then there was a warning you didn't warn him. Listen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108876	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108877	So, fellow Bulj you are absolutely right this government no longer has the enthusiasm, nor the capacity to solve the key problems of Croatian society, from the crisis you are talking about to the fact, can now colleague Kapulica, of course, depend on every representative, it may be a colleague of Bušić, it may be a colleague of Miro, but the fact is that two MPs, therefore without whom there is no ruling majority as well as no such, but without these two, so if we count that Capulica is part of it, I don't know even though it's talking about some of these intra-party struggles within HDZ, I don't know maybe he's the one who's going to fall down the ruling majority and maybe he like Andrej Plenkovic called Karamark to back off, maybe Mario Kapulica will be the one who raises his voice and say it's a lot of this time for a sovereign policy And to deal with corruption. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108878	Time. Individual debate of Ante Kujundzic No Bull's right to harm anymore, no, it's over. [[Intruder: Hurt.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108879	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's to this late hour, I didn't plan on applying either, but I said, come on, there's something to talk about, and then I brought you the applications, so here's the deal, so we can all get some rest. What I'm going to touch is this is actually what my colleague Kapulica encouraged me to do by commenting on both membership and MOST coordinators, etc., etc. So, how important the membership is, surely it is. As loyal as it can be, that's the question now. And if anyone in our Croatia should know that, then, surely, it is the HDZ's greatest political option in the first place. All of this has been manifested in the city of Split, so where it is generally known that low turnout comes in favor of major political options, however, the city of Split and the number of HDZ and HDZ members did not yet result in what was expected. Is the whole story the hottest finger in the chairman's office? Well, I'm sure he does. Is he an objective culprit? Now that's a question. The question is because it is simply amazing that so many members in the city of Split have experienced a kind of debacle. So this is in the context of membership as much as what fellow Capula is important or not important. How many MOST members and does MOST have a double filter check? Yeah, well, yeah. Whether it's good or not, we can look from different angles and comment. The next criticism most often comes in focus if the story of the Most is a public notary and is 163 days of MOST in the governments of the Republic of Croatia versus all our history. And that's where we can put the dot. However, what is a key question and what makes me a reason why the right political option is specifically you do not ask why MOST in sumarum exists. Why was MOST born as an idea in the middle of which there was someone in executive power coming from the right political spectrum? Because if we weren't too much of a liar, all of us from those backgrounds were therefore voters of right-wing political options. So I'll tell you about it while I was in charge of the executive in four years, in four years, so I don't know if Mr. Sanader knows it, but he'll probably find it interesting to hear. So, at the municipal council's solemn sessions, is it possible for you to believe that he was neither mayor nor the first deputy and second deputy in 4 years or not at the municipal council's meeting? And you know, colleague Miro, who was sent to me, you know, they sent me an interesting one, to me a very dear and valuable man by Angelko Katavic the head and we're opening a session and I thank Angel that fourth year and I say thank God they found you in the halls because if it wasn't for you they'd probably have sent a janitor, so I'm talking about a community where there's only HDZ and there's no one else. So one such relationship with anyone who doesn't have a party card is also one problem that you seriously need to think about if there are any choices before regulars, and on regulars you have enough time to change things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108880	Miro Bulj replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108881	My colleague Kujundzic, you have described this well, you have told the truth, it does not matter to them who is the head of the municipality and the town of local self-government at the county level, so the state has a card, that is the most important thing about them. However, the fact is, for example, Andrej Plenkovic entered HDZ when, so if they listen to these people who have been HDZ members since the first days, I forgot that I was founded HDZ, that I was in HDZ when Andrej Plenkovic came to HDZ, I forgot at all that I was when he was an ear and you were defending him thoroughly, but it was wrong to say that Cacic was the one who was a good judge of the boat to sink. Follow Jandrokovic's colleague Kapulica, so it was with Karamark, Kosorica, he is behind their laps, and when he steps away from Plenkovic it is the end, only follow him, nothing else, he is your high-rise, the guest of spring.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108882	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108883	In the great, fellow Bulj, sums of people and in the great political option and in the great system it is quite logical that there will be people who live and fight for the ideal, so when someone who is at the top when they change direction, then that someone who is still trying to live the ideal will somehow move a little bit and not be somehow the loudest to defend it. But what is generally not clear to me is that someone can defend 5-6 or 7 essentially different people, and that these fundamentally different people are those who dictate the policy direction that I belong to, so that's what they can't understand, and that I still believe in Croatia in which both in the parliamentary majority, so both from the left spectrum and from the right and from the centre, in fact all those who live there are the ideal and will stand behind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108884	Next individual debate, Mario Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108885	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a rare opportunity where there are no MPs at this time of night, and we're probably bored with them too. What worries me at this time of night, it's not, it's not that I'm in a hurry home, are the contents of these discussions of ours. We've been discussing how many sandwiches she eats, I think, I'm 6 years old. I eat once a day, this one I ate twice in the assembly and I think that sometimes I really wonder if we are aware of who we are and where we are and what our responsibility is. I mean, it's okay to do this and joke and that, here's the question is if I can believe that no one was at the council assembly, I can believe it, but I can't believe what we're discussing. Point of the agenda, I don't know if it's even possible for all those who participate in the debate, that no one who actually participates in the debate can discuss the item on the agenda. She may be mentioned in half a sentence as a springboard to talk about anything. So I would appeal to the rest of this debate of ours, to these few MPs to stop losing energy, to use it or to discuss this item of the agenda, or to get some rest for the start of the next session, but I would say before I finish something to my colleagues Bulju. Look, so energy accumulates in Europe, okay, the government collects in Croatia, the government is responsible because it collects in Croatia food, and then because it collects in Croatia in Sinj. Now, says this Bulj that it won't be like that, so okay, stop, you in Sinj, stop that chain reaction, and leave the prices as they were because you're in the same situation as the government compared to the general situation. So I think about bringing it down to the government that I don't know what, he remembered someone in the government that he was missing this one, that he was just about to collect electricity, gas, etc., I see that if this one, I'm not exactly sure which portal is because you can't trust everyone, that Butkovic announced that it's going to fuel, this is good news, so I hope that if God had good news in Croatia, and certainly not to the government, and neither should the opposition be in the interest that these news is constantly bad about the collection and the standards of Croatian people we've successfully kept, successfully, but we're not all powerful and we're not alone in the world. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108886	Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108887	Thank you very much for this constructive discussion of whether and you yourself said that this is the point of the agenda, I think it is, and I would just say about the gathering. The government of the Republic of Croatia said it would collect 10% of electricity for citizens and it was done, but I am not talking about anything but water, supplying water to houses, means water supply to locals, the electricity collected by 500% has been questioned by the liquidity of the company, and now we would have to collect 5 times the water to our citizens, our entrepreneurs even part of Split not only the Cetin region and Omis. And I'm sending a letter to both Minister and HEP because the cetin plum gives 40% of the hydropower, but the mountain-mounted areas are also being spent. I haven't had an answer since 4 months. We won't, we will. At least talk about finding a solution not to kill the economy and the household. They won't get away with it. [[Intruder: Time.]] That silence will not pass away from them. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108888	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108889	I agree with you, Mr. Bull, that we are agents in a very awkward position. You know, we have people who come to us, so when they say, so they say we have a problem with state property, a man has a 3.70 3.70 quarter plot is a state, so it's handled very simply, the state estimates that small part of the land, by their estimate man pays, for a year there's no answer. I know that. If I were to call the Ministry now, if I were to call someone there in state property, good day, what about that, go ahead and take care of it or change a man, what would I get? First he'd get a hearing on the anti-corruption council that I called, then he'd get one of the three whistles in that ministry, the drones who didn't do anything that would report me to do that, and then someone from the opposition would come forward and tie me up to do the crime because he'd make up some story that I had. interest in what I want to do with it. [[Intruder: Time.]] We are really in one, one serious problem in this country where we paralyze ourselves that we can act against those who don't do their job. I'm telling you honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108890	Time. Final debate Club of Representatives of MOST, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108891	The appointment and resolution of committees is important to talk about and on all these topics, I would once again mention what my colleague Kapulica said. So we, as Parliamentarians, have an obligation to present problems and our citizens, but the truth is that the administration often cuts out our citizens. I can confirm that, I when I came to Sinj took over... So the government is immediately all these HDZ candidates or what they are now in the administration of the Knights' Alkar society, now the opposition usurped that sanctuary, privatized it, but we will return it to the people, because it belongs to the people, not just the castas, the doctors of the sonic and that team who privatized everything, all, literally to our sanctity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just say here that it is not clear to me that an institution like the Ministry of Economy that after 5 months, 10 letters, 10 warnings, my prime minister and parliamentary deputies and mayor to point out this problem that is happening around the basic human rights of the social category, that is water, that they do not want to answer. I can answer freely we can't, the market is like that, but they don't want to answer at all, and they want to talk about a 500 percent power collection. The example for the 6th month last year was about 280 thousand kuna electricity, this month this month in 6 is a million and 300, million and 300 with 280,000 last year. So these are huge, enormous gatherings. The company's functioning, liquidity, agglomeration projects, has been questioned, but they do not want to talk. I wish the Minister of Answers wouldn't want to take you in for an interview. It is not the subject of politics, this is the question of life, this is the question of both the left and the right living in the area, those who are HDZ and outside HDZ and those who are for the Most and against the Most. However, everyone washes their hands, and the government talks we have a good credit rating and even now introduces the euro, there will be problems. And our citizens, when we collect their prices now, believe me, they won't be able to pay for the water. Our businessmen, the entrepreneurs of these caterers will not be able to because I'm going to have to collect, I'm going to have to fire the workers, but we're talking basic human water law. And pumps that pump electricity that collect 500 percent. We're not talking about the lighting that she collected three times though it's important, I mean important, but I'm talking about water here. So much for respecting both the parliamentary representative and the mayor. So I also invited them in my letter to come to the ark in a solemn box and to look into the eyes of the people and see how the darkness would turn on them. I call them, we're friendly, there's no more hospitality to this people. We've got a good gastro offer, everybody. Before, our former colleague Mr. Kovac came every year, everyone came here to Ante Sanader, the mayors nonstop on the stakes in fact they run the management of the Knights' Alkar society, unfortunately. Even that's where you polished the alka. That hurts. That hurts. I've been a mayoral candidate, now I'm going to tell you how it works and the president of the Knights' Alkar Society is signed that way and gives support to the second round of Boban that he loves the Chetino end. And he shall not give me any support, neither shall I give him: for the alk is holy; the alk is above. You usurped that sanctity, not the sanctity that I'm against the alka, I'm for the alka, the alka is part of me, I'm the ear with the cap here, part of my tradition, I'm from the Alkar family, but you usurped it. That same administration has usurped the health care of Sinj. You're going to the secretary of the knight's alkarean gynaecologist's company to get a checkup, there, there's a headmaster's fee, and he's giving a instructions to go to the office private with the president of the Knight's Alkar society and he's looking at this gynecologist who sent her from the health home yes, yes. That's how it works, their interest, not development, not alka, not tradition and our cultural values. And it was all done unfortunately by the party, when they entered, I forgot these and when Plenkovic's government and president and secretary... I forgot I was in HDZ when they came in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108892	Final debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108893	Thank you, Vice President. So I have to admit that I didn't expect to discuss the agenda point this long where colleagues of Chicko end office, where we choose other members for the board and where it is common to discuss it for about 2 to 3 minutes. But now that we've already entered the second day, it's perfectly clear to me and in some way this is the last debate in this session and the next regular session is only in the autumn if there are no extraordinary reasons for the extraordinary sessions and I can understand your fellow bridge that you wish you still didn't move from this pay phone and take advantage of all the business opportunities to still send a message about everything that you can on a daily basis, on a weekly basis. Because there's no topic that everyone now through these discussions, either in the name of the club, final and initial, either individually, you didn't mention. There was absolutely everything mentioned, by the energents, but then, you forget to say that except that... Except that energy prices are rising in the world, that we here in Croatia have tried not to grow as much as they do elsewhere. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? What's the problem? ... Some distraction, for what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Let's move on. You mentioned, and my colleague Bulj is a master master at getting every topic turned into a story of his own, and what's holding him back, he hit on it, and while there's a minute, he's talking about it, and there's a top-notch, there's, in general, I'm taking off his hat, a better advocate about twisting the subject of which is the agenda of his fellow Bull. And I've already learned with him that he always knows everything and can talk about everything. Now that you've already started talking about the election, so I'm going to use these another 2.5 minutes, you've mentioned here and the election and how Most won or didn't win the election in some local, local environments. So here you are in Bjelovarsko-Belhogorje 2017. You managed as a Bridge in County to have two MPs and then those two MPs immediately ran away, who? The one who was in power in 2017. Bajs was in power and you immediately formed a coalition with them to get a director, i.e. a deputy director at an agency implementing EU funds there in Bjelovar, in the county. Now, in the last elections, HDZ won the Bjelovar-Belgar County. You're nowhere to be found. You haven't even crossed the threshold. So your thesis, colleague Kujundzic, that you only where HDZ has been in power for many years, that you can do something, in Bjelovar-Belogorska, HDZ has come to power, you are gone. That's how it turns out when we talk about everything and everything. And in the end, you call the elections. It's your right to call elections. But two years ago, the citizens said what they think, who should lead this country and I know that you would like to see the same unstable government in Croatia as it is in some other European countries and that governments fall every 3 days, but since you left the government, the government has no such problems, the government is stable all the time. And you've said well how many you've been, just 100 days and a few days in the government, and you still can't regret it. And my colleague Grumoja talks today, when we come to power, we'll do it, we'll do this, we'll do it. But you've been saying it like that for six years, and I hope you keep saying it for six or twelve years. And the subject was usually just the selection of two board members. You haven't said a word about it, you haven't even managed to remember the names of those people, so you don't mind, therefore, I'll understand that you as a Club Mosta support this agenda point, just like the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108894	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He's giving up. The explanation of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108895	I'm giving up after this historic speech by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108896	Okay. Then we close the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue today at 9:30 with a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, 2. Proposal for a Decision on Accession amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, 3. Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and on 4. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. After that, it would be the presentation of the position of the club representatives, and at 12 o'clock they would vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108897	If we can vote right now, we'll see who the majority of us are here. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u108898	Okay. Thank you. Good night. Session interrupted at 12:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121296	Dear MPs and respected MPs, I wish you a good morning, please take your seats. At the beginning of these major catastrophic fires on behalf of MPs and representatives of HS would show solidarity and give full support to the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County, especially the locals of Zaton and Rasline. I also thank the firefighters for the sacrificial work and for saving lives and property, soldiers and police officers who joined, but of course to citizens and locals who were also on the first lines of defense against fire. According to the latest information, the situation in the firefield is somewhat better, and on behalf of all of us, I hope that we will hear better news today and that the fire will stop. Secondly, I would like to inform you that today, so at the end of the debate, we would also have a point of choice, appointment and resolution because he met and the board, and today we would discuss these changes in committees, which is more or less a routine thing, and tomorrow we would start with a statement on the amendments, and then there would be a statement, a statement on the position of the club's representatives, so that at 12 hours then we would vote, and then we would end the work, we would not have a statement after that. Another information is important, so today we would do these two points that we would now unite if you were all in agreement, so at 3:00 we would start discussing the confidence of Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman. In case we're not done with this topic by 3:00, then we'll continue it after the debate on the trust of Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, and if it happens to be near the end, then we'll do a little prolonging, so we'll start at half four, but we'll see how things develop, mostly at this point the goal is to start at 3:00. That's what I had from the information, and now I'm going to do as I've announced on the basis of an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Foreign Policy, proposed that a joint discussion be held on the final draft of the Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Final Proposal of the Act confirming the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden. Do we agree to conduct a united debate Is anyone against it? [[- I'm a bencher.]] If not then, I will determine that we will conduct a united debate on these points. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Based on the above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure of the Law, which are confirmed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international agreements, shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Law. And I would now ask that on behalf of the promoter an additional explanation that the respected Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121297	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Office HS, you are presented with the Final Proposal for a Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Final Proposal for a Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland. Croatia actively participates in all policies and activities that contribute to strengthening the alliance and common defences by giving these laws additional support to the strengthening of NATO and our collective defence. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia clearly says that Croatia remains committed to the Euro-Atlantic perspective and strongly supports the EU-NATO enlargement process. It is just the expansion of new members that is one of the fundamental characteristics of the NATO alliance itself. NATO's open door policy is a contribution to peace and security in Europe, it is a benefit both for Croatia when it joined the alliance and for the new members, so two-way. The expansion of the security zone strengthens NATO, and new members simultaneously come under the protection of our common security umbrella. The collective defence of the population, the public and the territory of all members remains a fundamental task of NATO's alliance and is the fundamental purpose of the organisation's existence. Furthermore, the ability to evaluate, adapt and transform has made it NATO after 73 years. of its foundation remains the most powerful political and military alliance in human history. We are pleased to take an important step today on the Croatian side to enable Finland and Sweden, our allies, EU Member States to join our alliance and strengthen it with their membership. Dear MPs, we are witnessing that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed our security environment, and Europe and the whole world are in a very sensitive and dangerous situation. Although the annexation of Crimea in 2014 has already begun to collapse the international order so far based on the rule of law, the aggression that Russia launched in February this year is a direct attack on freedom of choice, democracy and international law. Blood war is fought on European soil, millions of people have escaped and taken care of in neighbouring and other countries, as well as in Croatia. With the conflict of war, we are faced with an energy crisis of enormous proportions. The EU is trying to change its supply routes for its energy sources, and the whole world is facing supply chains. Despite all the problems and difficulties ahead of us as a democratic state that still remembers all the horrors that we have been exposed during the great Serbian aggression on our homeland, we cannot and must not allow armed forces to destroy the foundations of international law and cross the borders of sovereign states. Therefore, our solidarity with the Ukrainian people is unquestionable. The government of the Republic of Croatia is helping within the limits of its own ability to provide refugees and to deliver assistance to Ukraine. In an extremely complex international political and economic situation, NATO membership becomes more important than ever. NATO is a guarantee of our security and defence, as well as a political alliance of like-minded people that defends freedom and democracy and helps us to overcome the economic crisis together and continue on the path of economic growth. The North Atlantic Treaty is an alliance of 30 countries of Europe and North America that have committed to meet the provisions of the North Atlantic Treaty drawn up in Washington on 4 July, April 1949. In accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty, the basis of NATO's task is to preserve peace and security in the Member States by political and military means. NATO preserves the common values of allies, democracy, individual freedom, rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution and promotes these values across the Aero-Atlantic area. Since its entry into NATO membership in 2009, it means 13, more than 13 years ago, Croatia has continued to confirm itself as a committed and reliable member of the alliance by actively participating in discussions between NATO-based allies in Brussels, as well as in all decisions made by the Member States there, Croatia makes its own direct contribution to NATO-led activities, thus achieving joint tasks and objectives ahead of the alliance. As a participant of the collective decision-making system, Croatia promotes its own views, foreign political and security priorities as part of NATO. In this sense, the alliance for Croatia is a means of achieving its own national interests. Croatia actively participated in the development of a new strategic concept of the key document alliance, which was adopted at a recent summit in Madrid, which outlines NATO's main tasks in the coming decade. Croatia has been and has been an active multi-year process of considering the transformation of the alliance. A process aimed at further strengthening NATO policies, resources and finances as an appropriate way to address future challenges. It is aware that its responsibility for its own complicity in NATO has further increased Croatia as one of the strongest advocates of open-door policy, or further expansion of the alliances to the southeast of Europe, as part of NATO. Furthermore, from the moment of accession to the alliance, Croatia has participated in all NATO's most important activities including Allied operations and a mission to support peace in Afghanistan by September 2020, Kosovo, Iraq, the Mediterranean and Libya until November 2011 in Libya. In the context of the presence on the eastern wing of the alliance, Croatia is currently participating in a battle group in Poland with 4 members of the armed now, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in command, and during this year 90 more members will be sent to Poland, while the next 2023 will be directed to Lithuania by up to 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, within the framework of the enhanced vigilance activity launched after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Croatia will participate up to 17 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Hungary. In short, giving its own contribution to NATO operations and missions, Croatia fulfils its international obligations to stabilise crisis areas, develops the ability of its own armed forces and transfers of previously acquired knowledge. Taking into account the increasingly complex security environment in Europe and geostrategic competitions, Croatia confirms its credibility as a member of the alliance and when it comes to current defence investments. Currently, Croatia is among 10.9 allies who have crossed the target threshold of 2% of GDP. We currently stand out 2,03% for the defense, and we are eight among the allies, and 30.49% of the defence budget stands out for modernisation. We are also 8 in a row among 30 member states. But to get back to our point. This was one gene to get to know the value of this organization. To contextualize it. The final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, which the Government of the Republic of Finland referred to the Croatian Parliament for adoption, is the government aware of the seriousness of the situation in which we live and the Russian invasion of Ukraine sees as an attack on freedom of choice, international law and overall European security architecture. It is every country's right to decide its own alliances and security arrangements. Although Finland and Sweden have cherished neutrality for decades, of course each country had its own definition of neutrality. Since 1814 Sweden has defined itself as permanent neutrality. Finland because of its longest limit to the Russian Federation since 1955. After the aggression against Ukraine, they realized that Russia does not choose funds and that it is possible for them to be attacked and territorially threatened, so the interests of the two countries to join the alliance are fully understood and acceptable to us. When it comes to NATO enlargement in Article 10. The North Atlantic Treaty stipulates that the parties may, by a unanimous decision, call on any other State which is able to promote the principles of that Treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area to access the contract. Any so-called state may become a party to the North Atlantic Treaty by laying down its own access documents with the US government. From the point of view of Croatia, which consistently advocates open-door policy within NATO for all those European countries that want to join and meet the criteria for membership, the accession of Finland and the Swedish Union can only be welcomed and supported. Croatia, like other members of the alliance, sees its own NATO membership as a permanent guarantee of its own security. Continuing NATO enlargement strengthens the security of transatlantic space and Europe. By expanding federally, the Allied area of common values is also directly strengthened by our own security, the security of the Croatian state. Furthermore, Finland and Sweden share our values, have highly developed industries, technologies, standards, strong and well-organised armed forces with strong sailors, and their accession will greatly contribute to the security and strengthening of the military preparedness of the alliance, and thus to the security of our country. Finland and Sweden have been involved in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme since 1994, i.e. various forms of co-operation and have been NATO partners for many years. Their armies have long co-operated with NATO troops, as well as with our troops, and also within the EU, Finland and Sweden are strongly in favour of strengthening the EU's security co-operation. Finland has a territory of nearly 340,000 km2 and stretches from Baltic to the Arctic. Sweden, with 450,000 km2 of space, also takes up a large part of Northern Europe. With their accession, NATO will greatly strengthen its northern and eastern bloc, the side of defence, round the security area in Scandinavia and the Baltic, and well-trained and well-equipped Finland and Sweden's armies will mean a significant strengthening of the alliance's overall forces. Finland also participates in NATO operations in Iraq and Kosovo, and participated in Afghanistan as well as SFOR in BiH. On the other hand, Sweden has also contributed to missions in BiH, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Libya and Iraq, and its armed forces, as well as those in Finland, are also characterised by exceptional equipment and high compatibility with the existing forces of the member states of the alliance. The government therefore strongly supports NATO enlargements to the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden and expects the Croatian Parliament to confirm the proposed legislation on their accession signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022 by authorised representatives of NATO member states. On behalf of the Croatian government, the protocol was signed by our permanent representative, Ambassador Dr. Mario Nobilo. I note that the protocols enter into force when they are certainly ratified by parliaments of all 30 NATO member states, some countries have already done so, after which formal calls are being made to Finland and Sweden to join the North Atlantic Treaty and set up NATO member states. I believe that the Croatian Parliament will give its first consent to this historic expansion of the alliance. Here, thank you very much, I saved a little time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121298	You stayed in the Minister's time, so everything's fine. You have 23 replicas, and the first one is an Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121299	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers in the opening interpretation of these protocols, you have said all the reasons precisely regarding the accession of Sweden and Finland and the only principle of reciprocity that we have as a Republic, but we must mention that this is not only an ad hoc solution, that this is not an ad hoc decision, this is one benefit for NATO, but also for the EU. We must note that Sweden has 10 million inhabitants, Finland 5 million people, that not only have a professional army but they have something that other NATO members do not have, and what we are discussing is reserves, so they have a large number of residents who have undergone basic training, have a strong military industry and we must not view this as just an ad hoc solution to the current security threat, but also one benefit and one strategic and foreign policy, but also the defence and security objective not only of NATO alliances but also of the EU. I think you as Minister of Foreign Affairs know best, and I'm glad that the Republic of Croatia supports this amongst the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121301	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, this is extremely important and you have said well that just by joining these two countries as I and in my address have said strengthening the overall, overall potential of the alliances, the security of these two countries that were traditionally neutral countries, and for their neutrality they had reasons, primarily historically political, when you look at the Paris-based, Vienna-Paris Agreement in 1814-'15. And when you look at Finland, it was 110. occupied from, from 1807 to 1917, and constantly led a policy of balance because of neighbours, eastern neighbours and the Russian border, which is a very sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121302	Here you go, fellow Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121303	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we have witnessed that Turkey has achieved certain benefits in its national interest, which has defended its national interest and conditioned the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO. What they're looking for is what they mostly get. Did Croatia have any international problems, does Croatia have any unresolved issues that could have been resolved in this way and along the way I will take advantage of the opportunity and I will ask you what happened and if it has ever been clarified where that drone came from in Zagreb and a few days after Croatia entered into NATO activity called increased vigilance, where was this NATO vigilance when the drone flew to Zagreb? Please specific answers, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121304	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121305	Thank you very much for that question, Mr. Honorable Representative Beljak. Of course, Turkey and Sweden and Finland, therefore, are resolving their open issues, so these are bilateral issues. Croatia has no open issues against Sweden and Finland. You have been following probably the reasons, the question and the action of the tourist group of Kurdish, Kurdish and terrorist dissidents and they have asked of course to submit the list, they have provided a list of these terrorists in Sweden or Finland and they have reached a certain agreement and have requested permission to deliver weapons, so that when it comes to this side of Croatia we do not have a single open question, on this side we have supported and support their entry into membership with the alliance. The drone is of course, is right you [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121306	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121307	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here I am interested because how long have I been directed between 4 and 12 months until these countries become full members of NATO, I am interested in this interspace so-called because no one knows what Russia is going to do, for example if an invasion occurs at that time until they become full members of this country, do these two countries have any guarantees in the context of their security by NATO itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121308	Thank you very much, Mr. Britch. Here are some countries that have already given it, in this one interregnum, and it is actually very important that this one achieves the ratification as soon as possible, the Law on the ratification of these protocols, so that these two countries enter this alliance as soon as possible and then would have the right of course to defend, but some countries have already given guarantees in this one inter alia, interregnum, first of all the United States, Germany and some other countries, so what is important is to speed up this ratification process in all parliaments, and I say even though this is a short time, we are really passing this Ratification Act, but already some countries have done it much earlier, so we are among the first ones. But I'm sorry that I didn't, Mr. Beljak, he's already gone, explained of course that Mr. Beljak, forgive me, Mr. Beljak, you hear me, the drone, the drone is, is you have the right to this course it was one challenge which is certainly the same. One, One Reason Launcher [[Intruder: Thank you]] to keep us up even more. [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121309	Minister, thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121310	Dear Minister, I am here in a pay phone at HS long ago pointed out that we are a member, that the Croatian member of NATO is a pact, that it is an EU member and that we have chosen our side and I am glad that we have stood firm behind our membership in NATO, and that is how it is done, means simply at one point when you have become a member of an association then you must defend that position. Unfortunately today the world is divided into new blocks, we have a new cold war, the situation is not even a great prospect, but it is no reason to question yesterday the expansion of the NATO Pact because it must be one of the imperatives and not to support the membership of Finland and Sweden in the NATO Pact. Shortly tell me your comment on the attempted blackmail by the highest state summit, I mean first of all the Pantovčak in the context of the entry of Finland and Sweden into the NATO Pact?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121311	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121312	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. Of course, this comment and remarks later on, later probleming this and bringing into the context of some other solutions has naturally damaged our reputation. Croatia enjoys its reputation in the international community precisely because of its co-operation, because of its expression of the principle of solidarity, rule first, and at the same time as a small country, we always and everywhere defend national interests, but national interests are resolved among allies, politely, civil, including, by talking, by promoting a positive, therefore affirmative approach when it comes to any problems or when there is a particular dispute over something. Thus, the way an unusual noise is created is not actually good Access. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121313	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121314	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, first and foremost, the situation in the past year has been a terrible war that has hit the world, Ukraine, and since the Croatian people have deep compassion and everything that is happening is certain that Finland and Sweden is a great influence of the forces in the strong family of NATO, here I would like to congratulate you on your efforts and finally I would like to ask you a question whether you are looking forward to the very support of the last president of Milan, who has shown the firm support of Finland and Sweden for joining NATO in his last visit, in the NATO summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121315	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121316	Thank you very much, Mr Deur, first of all, I mean every policy, serious policy, responsible policy must be credible and rest on the principle of solidarity and respect for respect. Here we have actually experienced the copernican turn of President Milanovic, who first problemed us and in public space has created us in fact and made trouble and made it difficult for us one, one perception as a country that has a problem with something, and has defined itself as a policy of open doors because we have already joined NATO, we have defined ourselves as, for standards, for principles that promote NATO's alliance. And of course there was processing, processing when the president himself realized, and then he sent, of course, a penitent letter to Jens Stoltenberg, who was the secretary general, and then in Madrid of course he voted for the acceptance of these countries into NATO alliances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121317	Now will be spoken by MP Milanović Litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121318	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Grlic Radman, I personally believe that we have more benefits than damage to NATO membership, but my question today is about a drone that fell into the capital of the Republic of Croatia that we still know nothing about. He flew across the airspace area of two NATO member states, Hungary and Romania, you had a series of exhibitions, a series of statements that you sent in which you did not actually say anything, or we know anything more about it. What you have done as Minister in your work so far so that such things do not happen and that communication between Hungary, Romania and other NATO member states of the pact that are around us, surrounding us, which should be our security, which at that time did not show that we are a safe country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121319	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121320	Thank you very much, your question is of course important and it contributes naturally to this overall debate and to seeing certain problems. Of course, it can always happen somewhere and everywhere is actually a factor of man that can naturally happen and certain miss unexpected, but the fact that these countries have also recognised it and that the Prime Minister has just visited this important centre for his stay in Spain and is a reference to the monitoring of airspace and to determine the circumstances and reasons of the drone. Unfortunately, we have not received the right answer yet, neither from the Ukrainian side nor from any of the others where the drone came from, but of course it has threatened the safety of a NATO member country. What do you think would have happened was, fortunately, there were no human casualties, but there was one warning, one warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121321	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121322	Honorable President, Your Honor, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the security atmosphere. Finland has been neutral for decades but has now realised that it can no longer be because Russia has become a security threat and that is why 60% and over 60% of Finnishs support NATO membership, and the Finns have a clear reason for such behaviour. Finland gained independence in 1917, and before that, it had been under the patronage of the Tsar Russia for 110 years. The idea of the Krelj on the control of all territories that were under the Patronate of Tsar Russia has prompted the Finns to think about NATO membership. Is it possible the war beyond the borders of Ukraine is the next idea I will not tell Putin, but the Kremlin about the patronage of the territories that were part of the Imperial Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121323	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, of course you've opened a lot of, a lot of these questions. We live truly and, as I said in my opening address in a challenging world, therefore, a world full of challenges, but also in a dangerous world. So, in the 21st century, it was unimaginable that a country that is still a member of the council of this permanent member of the Security Council could attack this other sovereign state, and it was precisely the job of the UN as a universal security organisation of the Member States to preserve peace and ultimately if you take the Helsinki acts that say that borders are immutable and that sovereignty is respected, and even neutrality is mentioned there, so it was all actually the Russian Federation that insulted and did something that was unimaginable. We must now really look for an appropriate solution that is being promoted right here through a strategic concept that has been adopted in Madrid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121324	Thank you. Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121325	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that one of the tasks of important NATO is, in addition to the security of defence policy and economics, so the protection of the economic part which has definitely given Russia's brutal aggression to Ukraine to know, except that Putin has become the largest lobbyist for NATO alliance, because as more attacks so many countries enter NATO alliance, it is seen that one Turkish member, a member of NATO, because of the transport of cereals and all other economic important and important segments from Ukraine to other countries, and that is exactly the passage of Bospor, Dardanelli and the Black Sea, therefore the importance is seen right now, so that you give a little comment on the importance of NATO and in this economic sense, let's say, both through OECD and other segments, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121326	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121327	It is, of course, that this affirmative approach of these two countries which, in fact, is more the result of this very threatened security and because of Russian aggression that has caused one great instability in the world, but peace and security have no price, it is naturally reflected negatively on economies, supply chains, energy addiction issues, but this is more one, one reason why the democratic world strengthens those operational mechanisms and political instruments to isolate the attacker, in order to create all assumptions about the sustainability of the world's order, which rests on international law and we are making all diplomatic and political efforts to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121328	I'm going to be doing a replica of my colleague Busic now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121329	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, and my question will be very brief. Here we have discussed this on the foreign policy committee and we have all accepted and I hope this will indeed go unanimity. But this was preceded by a very big debate, and I would say one huge storm, which is how we should condition this signing. And I would ask you here if this debate was really necessary, which has really brought in a lot I would say unrest especially among the Croats in BiH, could she really, was it the right time for this and could she get any results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121330	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121331	So, the discussion of uniting those two questions, I'm not very good at...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121332	No, the debate that we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121333	Comrade Busic, please sit down, it's over, you said. A colleague or minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121334	So the question is, the issue of NATO and membership is therefore one issue and these two countries, there Croatia is absolutely looking at the part and observing it separately from any other issue. But the issue of the transformation of NATO itself, which once held West after the break-up of the bipolar system, was the Western European populace of a democratic society, he was once a military alliance, he is now more of a political military alliance and is precisely including these values that the EU has, of course, mentioned by Mr. Cappelli. Of course, it wasn't that necessary discussion if she was suggesting some other debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121335	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121336	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the first message of joining Sweden and Finland NATO is a political message, it is aimed at Russia. Second... This is also about real military capabilities brought by Finland and Sweden because we know that these countries have really invested in building their military capacities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although Russia gives a very bad impression in Ukraine and is not expected to attack Sweden and Finland right now, except, of course, we are witnessing cyber attacks, spreading false news, yet I am curious whether the allies will deploy certain forces in the Baltic region while the accession process itself is going on, and also to send a political message to Russia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121337	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121338	Well certainly, since the Ukrainian crisis or the Russian invasion, we still don't see the end of the war, or the invasion, of aggression, it's been going on too long, actually since 2014. in a stable way, and now it's actually eclectic after 24 February when literally Russia entered with tanks and soldiers on, into a sovereign area of one, an independent country that has put its territorial integrity at risk and we're looking here, we're looking for an appropriate response, but you can't really use a weapon, that's a big challenge for both NATO and the EU, but you can't use a weapon, otherwise we come into one, one cataclysm, and we're all, all aware of that. It is also important to include in the war diplomatic efforts and political and political dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121339	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121340	I thank President HS. Dear Ministers, NATO's open door policy on the one hand strengthens NATO's alliance, on the other hand gives security to new members, but also gives certain commitments. If we were members of the NATO alliance when we were attacked by Chetniks in great Serbia then surely the course of war would be different, then we were alone, but here we were thanks to God and the courage of Croatian defenders, so I want Sweden and Finland to join NATO alliance and be part of that organization in view of the situation in Ukraine and the possibility of working further. I ask you how you comment on President Milanovic's statement, and I quote that parliamentarians will be persecuted as the devil's sinful soul if we raise our hand to Sweden and Finland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121341	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121342	President Milanovic, if you have followed all his statements, etc., there has always been a turn and we can finally conclude that he has shown inconsistency. He finally calmly said that, of course, at these parliamentary deputies to decide on it. Therefore, the sentence, a sentence of pressure that is actually the legacy of the former Yugoslav communist regime, was no longer repeated. The Croatian Parliament is the largest legislative body, it is a reflection of Croatian citizens, you are sovereignly deciding in the interest, national interest, in the interest of the Croatian state, and if you remember the first President Franjo Tudjman said it is ours, our membership is in Western European democracies, which means both NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121343	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121344	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, so the Republic of Croatia is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121345	Just a second, pal Shashin, is that someone's cell phone doing something, something's banging, I don't know. All right, nothing. Keep going. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121346	The Republic of Croatia must have gone through a much more demanding and complex process of joining NATO in view of the circumstances in which the Homeland War, the release of the country, etc. and all these tasks were successfully completed and entered into the NATO alliance this is for sure that in some way we met these criteria, we had to simply adapt to all those requirements that NATO's alliance had set before us. But after all this, there was a time of a little migrating, and it seemed to me, like, almost 30 years of peace in Europe, and they just started to think that we didn't need the armed forces, and they didn't need it that much more. etc., it's expired. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121347	Yes, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121348	Obviously there has been a change in the paradigm, you know the bipolar breakdown of the bipolar system has also meant a new moment that psychologically opened up some new possibilities, opportunities for international law and democracy that will enjoy and the whole world and will actually respect the rules. However, the tragic, tragic breakup of the former state to which we are, of course, witnesses and we who were actually nowhere to be recognized because the instrument had Yugoslav diplomacy, had their diplomacy and 4 most important pillars, diplomacy, police, defence and finance, that we in such a one misunderstanding of the international community managed to achieve what we achieved invaluably and after 30 years of such great achievements, this is what all of us are doing, and everybody praises it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121349	Now they're going to be replicating a colleague of Bartulic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121350	The payer is included./... Honored NATO Ministers are not their own purpose, but the tool for members to actually protect and promote their own interests. That's how I see our NATO membership. You gave Turkey the earlier right to put some issues on the agenda because of bilateral disputes with the two countries. Well, my question concerns missed opportunities in the recent past. So, when Montenegro entered NATO in 2017, it is the neighbouring country with which we have a border dispute, Croatia has done nothing about the issue. So there were no political tensions between Pantovich and the Ban Courts at the time, and I consider it a big, big failure. We should have taken the opportunity then and put that question on the agenda. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121351	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121352	Thank you very much, Mr. Bartulica, and it's good to discuss all this. Of course this is, it is, we are actually contributing to a common debate and to the examination of all the problems, and it is possible that there have been certain situations and perhaps opportunities, but these opportunities will be compensated. They will make up for themselves because the international community is complex, there are lots of actors, lots of participants, you've been in foreign policy, diplomacy and very much of this you know there are no complex solutions simulated, for complex complex problems there are no simple solutions, simulated solutions so that as far as I'm optimistic because I know what's yet to come, for that we need time, conversations with their allies, with partners. All those problems that we have here that exist, we'll solve together. with our allies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121353	Thank you very much. Here you are, a violation of my colleague Bartulic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121354	Article 238, with all due respect to the Minister, you did not reply specifically. So I understand that the complex relationships in the world, however, this is a pretty simple thing. We have a dispute with Montenegro in Prelaka, and in this bilateral issue, we could and should have taken advantage of the opportunity when the country joined NATO. I don't think we need that great wisdom, it's one failure, you can admit it without... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121355	You're getting a warning from your colleague Bartulka, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated the Minister. Let's move on, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121356	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when Putin launched the aggression on February 24th, he used an excuse not to want NATO to reach Russia's border and achieved exactly the opposite. So now with this NATO expansion, it comes to the Russian Federation's border. It's a strategic plan to defeat Putin's policy. But with this defeat, not everyone will rest, so they will also criticise you and criticize you, and today you will hear a lot of attacks throughout the day from those still trapped in the policy of non-classification, from those who have defended Putin on public television, saying it is justified that he occupied and annexed Crimea, they do not seem to be at peace with the politics of the West and that Croatia is a member of the West and that it has defined itself, that it is classified with the free democracies of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121357	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121358	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier. You've been foreign minister, so you've made it all very nice, of course, but maybe here I'll use my colleague Bartulico for what he said. The border on Prevlaca is not questionable, the other day Prime Minister Abazovic was here, so I told him very nicely, or Prime Minister, and so, we talked about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121359	Minister, just a little please, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121360	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121361	I must warn you, so when you respond to the replica you have to answer to the representative who has set you up, you can answer with skilled verbal figures to others, but you must at least satisfy the form, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121362	Yes, thank you very much, this one I agree absolutely with what Mr Stier said, of course, and when it comes to this and Montenegro which today will be abundantly worded at 15 hours, and I can tell you that I am very looking forward to this debate because I delayed some diplomatic departures to Romania and the Netherlands today and yesterday, but I keep this important to talk about this, so of course we will also talk about Montenegro and our committed efforts to make up for this issue, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121363	Now, this has already been in line with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121364	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Grlic, therefore Turkey has made minimum demands in accession to Sweden and Finland, these minor demands you have called together as Turkey also calls them, which are terrorist organisations, so terrorist organisations co-operated with by one of the NATO members, so the United States in Syria in the fight against the Islamic state. My question is very simple, could you ask the question of the election law of the Croats in BiH and constitutionality? I know you will use the argument of bilateral relations between Turkey-Sweden, Turkey-Finland, but this is about the same people, the same people for whom it is a matter of days when they will disappear, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121365	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121366	Well, you know, but politics is, politics, the other is you know one I'd say petty trade that doesn't know the values and principles in, in a complex international community. This is actually about what I said, about Croatia's commitment as members of NATO, that any country that wants and has met the conditions could enter, into NATO. When it comes to BiH today, we will talk a lot about what we are doing and how we are doing and what we have done so far. First of all, we have highly internationalised the issue in BiH. Why is it so nervous, why is it so upset, because it's never worked before, because the dust has never been raised before, the dust that has to exist, and when it settles, when those problems are solved, then you'll know the configuration of the terrain, and by then you have to fight it, and we're working on it, it's a second process, and no, there's no blackmail process. That's important, no blackmail. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121367	Thank you, thank you, Minister. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121368	Mr. Grlic, if the Bundestag resolution for you is not a German stance then perhaps even this official, official request from Finland and Sweden for NATO membership is not official enough, perhaps we are discussing here without meaning, but if Bundestag's opinion does not represent a German policy, then HS's opinion does not represent a Croatian policy, which gives you a new dimension of the description of the handlifters in HS, and then I am not surprised, I can imagine what you think of Croatian citizens, especially those across the border of the Croatian people. What's the key to me, there was a way to fight it, there was no petty policy, there were petty people in politics and petty interests, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121370	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrov. Of course you have the right to your own position and the rhetorical figures as you wish, but you are not at all aware of what the resolution is, so you need to make a destination, there is an Antrag and there is Beschlussemfelung, so you need to come in and see actually what's going on, so here it's about the government that, you laugh and you don't even know anything at all, ask yourself a little bit, talk, did you call anyone in, in, up in Parliament in Bundestag besides having your own rooms And, and, and what, so there's a distinction... [[Just a little minister, just a little bit, just give it, just a little bit, just a little minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121371	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121373	I'm not gonna let this kind of behavior, grinning from the bench about something... Look, I don't know how well you know foreign policy and the work of Bundestag, you haven't shown me much knowledge about it yet... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, I'm a doctor of science for you from foreign policy and international relations, so I wouldn't really argue with you, but I'm not laughing when you're talking, and I could laugh. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, let the minister go, let the minister speak, and then you either replicate or in your answer be creative, but such an ugly laugh about something you're not an expert in is not correct. Here's my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121374	He's been injured. 238, the great experts Gordan Jandrokovic and Mr. Grlic want to convince us that the Bundestag declaration is not the official position of Germany, so if it is not funny to you we seriously need to worry about who is running this parliament and who is running Croatian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121375	My friend Grmoy, you're getting a warning, so I didn't even get into your metrics, I just told you that you're laughing inappropriately, so I wasn't talking about the metrics, and I wasn't talking about who's right at all, but I was saying that you're not laughing in an ugly way because you and tomorrow or tomorrow or now during the debate, and what will the council look like then I warned you about, so don't twist the the thesis. Don't twist the thesis. Injury of my colleague Cappelly's Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121376	238, the deception and insult of all of us here in a way that firstly needs to be translated that is no resolution and no protocol and they are not binding, it is one of the views of the German government because the German government, recently Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr Scholz, we know very well what relations are and what we will continue and as we will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121377	You gave your colleague Cappelli an explanation, but you also replicated so that you would receive a warning. Now we'll be back, you have 20 seconds left to respond to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121378	So, here Mr. Grmoya exists...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121379	Comrade Petrov, it was Petrov who replicated you answer to him, 20 seconds please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121380	Excuse me. So here, the German government has directed the Bundestaga to adopt a resolution on the deployment of troops to EUFOR means Althea in BiH after 10 years. The accompanying document and he's binding of course and Bundestag voted it individually, so individually, here is an accompanying document so it's called beschlussen fellung so which has no executive character, he didn't come from the government, he came from one, from one faction which is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121381	Thank you, thank you, Minister. Now it's my colleague Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121382	Dear Minister Grlic, in your presentation you strongly emphasized one word, the alliance, you also spoke about the partnership, so when we talk about our allies, so-called. And to our partners, we must refer to this document voted by the German Parliament. You're right to say he's not binding, but that's what the ruling coalition in Germany has voted for, plus the biggest opposition CDU party that's your sister's party. Today is Thursday, I ask you this was voted on Friday, why you have not already called for the German Ambassador's talks in Croatia and protested because in a very ugly way Croatia is calling in the document and directly accusing itself of separatism Croatian political in BiH. Why haven't you done it already, will you, and if you won't, can we interpret that you agree with this policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121383	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121384	Mr. Deploding, therefore, a democratic state, and you as a Democrats, do you know that there is an executive power and there is a legislative authority. With the executive authority, we have no problems, so we are meeting like, at the Foreign Affairs Council with the foreign minister who agreed to enter into the strategic compass our reference to the constitutional equality of the Croatian people in BiH. It's a strategic document of 47 cells, and on page 9 it's exactly that reference. Also, the Federal Chancellor Scholz is of that opinion. Therefore, I am talking about the recommendations, the recommendations of the legislative authority. Now that executive power is changing, it interferes with the legislative authority. But there is parliamentary diplomacy. What you're involved in, is there you found someone of your own who you could have sent this to, you did send a letter, you called someone, phone work or anything else. So I'm telling you that this has no effect knowing relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121385	Thank you very much. Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121386	Dear Ministers, first of all we should point out that we support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, but as my colleague also said, it is definitely a defeat of Putin's policy, so I wonder if you expect certain reactions from Russia to this accession, as President Putin announced. I don't know if I should repeat the Minister did he hear? Obviously. Do you expect certain reactions from Russia announced after the accession of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance? And the second question is very specific, have you spoken to representatives of Hungary, your colleagues, which is why the neighbouring countries have not been informed of the dangers threatened by a drone that has been flying over Hungary for almost 40 minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121387	Thank you very much for that, about that we were more of these instructions, of course we were from the very moment that was March 10th and it was one Thursday 3 minutes before 23 hours a night. So, there's been a certain gap with them. The drone was reportedly flying through Romania for seven minutes, 40 minutes through Hungary, and we're probably not on a flight, possibly not even they were able to see it, so obviously because as soon as the drone showed up. So we talked intensively and both the defence minister and so did the foreign minister, so I. We talked about it and, of course, we all agree that we need to be more alert, that we need to take more care of these dangers because until something happens, you're not actually aware of any possible problems. In order to counter some, we must therefore prevent some problems and that is what is important and what is adopted in NATO's strategic concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121388	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121389	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, are we actually at war? We must ask ourselves this question all together because the war, or war conflict in Ukraine, carries with it its consequences. The sanctions we imposed obviously did not endanger Russia as much as they refused us back and we have an extremely difficult fall ahead of us, and probably winter without Russian energy. But it's all just harder or facts. I do have to ask you, however, are mentioned by colleagues and colleagues here several problems or border disputes that we have with our neighbours and which we may or may not even say need to be highlighted during these discussions on the expansion of the NATO Pact. I'll just point out one more problem and ask you again. The Slovenian army is still standing on St. Gera. Are you gonna handle this or should I call it hunting company?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121390	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121391	No, you have to call anyone, we've been on the verge of a solution with Jansa's government, and here recently for Mrs. Tanja Fajon's arrival, which is just affirmatively looking at our resolution of the bilateral dispute, and as you can see, the result is exactly our diplomacy in which you of course signed 32 that it is ineffective, that it is underweight, that it is third-rate, etc., here's a razor of wire placed by the Slovenian government if you remember during the time that the Prime Minister was Zoran Milanovic, and that wire is now moving, it's gone, I guess it's visible, and I think that we should all volunteer or actually what happens is good that no one sees, and what someone thinks is bad, and yet it makes it appear to be a problem. I will be actively defending myself today for everything we have achieved in Croatian diplomacy, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121392	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121393	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, therefore we absolutely support Finland and Sweden's NATO entry, but we should look at the context in which everything is happening together. If Russia had not launched its aggression against Ukraine I am sure we would never have discussed this today and that somehow things would remain the same, or as they were before, but the context of Finland and Sweden's NATO entry means next, all Arctic states except Russia will be in NATO. In recent years, Russia has developed major military investments or investments in various military facilities in the Arctic. There will now be a different relationship of strength, whether at NATO level it has been considered that there will be both needs and that NATO will start to invest certain things in these Arctic countries only because of the balance that will be needed, which will certainly not be kindly seen from Russia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121395	Of course, it is a very sensitive issue when we talk about the world order, and then all the smart people and all the reasonable people of this world take care that the sustainability of the international world order is the only possible dialogue, with the only possible assurance, there are always different approaches. We now have a situation here that we are in a populous, bipolar world between democracy and authoritarian regimes. It's a fact, but it's actually a moment and one situation that's of course worrying us and we have to work and work on, always somehow when it's in good you know then somehow this one we all realize is one reality and that it's normal and we're not ready maybe for possible, possible challenges, some kind of invasion, in the 21st century no one expected it. So you're right, of course, when you're talking about the future and the expansion of NATO and influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121396	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121397	Thank you. Minister Grlic, you here with certain thought and verbal carnivores that a serious man cannot but laugh at are trying to say that the Bundestag declaration is not the official position of Germany. It would be the same if someone were to say that the declaration we condemned here in HS Russian aggression in Ukraine is not the official position of Croatia, so that is, that you can state it is not to be heard anywhere, in any of the best comedy. But what would I ask you about the benefit of Croatian citizens from you as foreign minister, what have you done in relations with Serbia that opens chapters and does not meet the obligations and is said by Minister Tomo Medved himself, what have you done about the Croats in BiH and the Election Law, and how have you exploited this international reputation and position of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121398	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121399	Thank you very much. Here you have actually overshadowed this one important and good one with this ratification, the Law of Ratification of the Protocol with one question that will come to, on the table at 15 o'clock. As for me and my diplomacy and that you, I follow you as you say you know this, I will remain Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, and it is better to lose you twice than once, therefore I hope that you will not be in the next meeting of HS because, in fact, you understand what I want to do, every day you are doing games and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you are involved in the judiciary, so I will ask you the question of where you're from, and for Mr Sabek, it means that you have certain connections and that you are in fact annihilating all those values and institutions that exist in the Croatian democratic state, so I will ask you to say goodbye to Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121400	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Whitey's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121401	Thank you very much. Art. 238, I would ask Minister Radman that for me coming from northwestern Croatia, I have never heard of that proverb, explain what it means "it's better to find him once than to lose him twice", which means, is that an insult or something, which is "twice lost than once found," I have no idea, I don't know... It's coming, please explain whether it's an insult or not or I don't know I've reacted maybe it's an insult. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121402	Comrade Beljak, colleague, colleague Beljak, please, just a little while, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Beljak, it was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure but you asked a question, it does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, so I will give you a warning, and this will later explain to you by the minister, I have never heard of it, but it is good, it sounds good. ... Let's move on, fellow Posavec the Guilty. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121403	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, starting with the premise and respect for the function of the Minister of Foreign, Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, I am interested in your, your geostrategic analysis of the situation ahead of us. We know it was 1995. Finland and Sweden have entered European integration together, have since succeeded successfully on the trail of years and even centuries of their intention to maintain military neutrality. This military neutrality became questionable at the moment of the aggression at the borders of Finland, when Russia's aggression towards Ukraine took place. What I'm interested in is, by entering everything you've tried to say, we're going to preserve the protection of the Baltic, the sky, the border, etc., what's going to happen to good neighbourly relations, what's going to happen to broken political, political trust between Russia and two new members?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121404	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121405	It's a good question of yours absolutely, and of course you're expressing one thing, through this question one of the relevant concerns that, of course, this doesn't make us all indifferent, of course. Otherwise, '95. Another has entered, Austria is, it is a permanent neutral country, but its neutrality begins at the doctrine of international law. Good neighbourly relations are, in fact, always what is being run out, meaning neighbourly good, so it's also in our interest to talk about Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans, which is always unstable, where there are always geostrategic competitions and third players, of course, that we, more than Croatia, are in the interest of stability of the Western Balkans. All, all tragic... which is the legacy of the former state's collapse, means both Serbia and BiH and Montenegro are making great efforts, but you must always have on the other hand which is ready to talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121406	And let's go to the last line, colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121407	Thank you. Ministers, as a representative at HS, I support the accession of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance. In that part, I don't have any reservations or dilemmas. But I ask you, as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, to pay attention to the Prime Minister that the Republic of Croatia cannot have two foreign policies. It cannot have two significant opposing foreign policy attitudes. It cannot before defining its foreign policy objectives and how no one will achieve them, and thus neither does the Prime Minister express his personal views and it is unacceptable for the president of the country to put his running ahead of the ore into an unpleasant situation and, in practice, almost an act. Such behaviour by the Prime Minister is a violation of the government's constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121408	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121409	Thank you very much, ma'am. Representative Oreshkovic. First of all, Croatia does not have two foreign policies. Foreign policy by art. 10 The Constitution is a government policy, and the operational body is the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I think we can agree there, so probably even the president of the state who was here seven years ago said when she was President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, I think that the memory of everyone serves us, that 90% of the meaning of foreign policy means the government is the one that determines, and 1%, etc., and that we should not be embarrassed in interviews with statements, etc. And actually the president forgot about it and actually he's doing it all together and he's looking for 50-50. 50%, it's a store, and that's why all the ambassadors are standing with us, and that's my core bussines, the rotation of ambassadors where we are now prisoners of his, in fact, stopping that rotation, non-cooperation in terms of diplomacy and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121410	Thank you, Minister. We've come to an end, so now get back to your seat. Now we'll call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most, two MPs, counterpart Petrov and counterpart Rasdic will speak, please welcome fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121411	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. History should teach us that in our area through centuries of political crisis, wars, changes, they are constant. And in these changes we do not follow and follow Croatia's primarily long-term interest, then the long-term Croatian people bleed. Every political calculation, every tiny soul, every petty interest in positions of importance for the Republic of Croatia, every confidence exclusively in the help of others has become in our heads for the long term. What can be more of an interest to the Republic of Croatia than the interest of its own people about the neighbouring country? What can be strategic for Croatia of greater interest than protecting the Croatian people as a constituent nation in the neighbouring country? Especially if we're learning from our people's history. You have missed an important opportunity as a sovereign NATO member to help, not only those who seek commonity and our help but to help the long-term and Croatian interests and resolve and assist Croats as a constituent people in BiH. But it's obvious. You agree with that because you do not have any objections to the Bundestag resolution where Croatia and Croatian leaders are accused of separatism, and we are being handed out packages. They were never ours, Mr. Grlic, the problem, the other peoples who wanted a partnership with us, we were the problem of people who were chosen as leaders of our country, and they couldn't fight for our interest. Our partner, friend, is an ally who will be able to appreciate both our interests and remember, there is no petty policy, there are only small people and petty interests in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121412	After his colleague Petrov, he will now speak to his colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121413	Our principle position is that any democratic state that wishes to join an association of which the Republic of Croatia is already a member, which meets the conditions set by the organisation, is welcome. In that sense, we have no objection to Finland and Sweden, if they meet the requirements, joining the NATO Pact. However, on the other hand, our primary interest is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian people as a whole, and today it is gravely and unjustly threatened, with the active assistance of our so-called. The German Parliament's resolution was adopted on Friday, and today we heard clearly that the German ambassador would neither call for discussion nor protest. And it's nothing complex foreign policy, at least Croatian is very simple, it comes down to a maximum horse bound where aga tells you to. Chats, servants, vases, that's our foreign policy. In the autumn, Croatians as the formal constituent people in BiH will be politically liquidated. The Bosniaks will elect political representatives for the 4th time will elect the Bosniak second member of the Komsic presidency, and it is likely that thanks to the electoral law that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, but there has been a change to fill the 1/3 home of the Croatian people, they will choose power without the legitimate representatives of the Croats. The Bosniak government will take over public enterprises in the territory where Croats are in the majority, reroute additional money flows leading to the new mass emigration of Croats to BiH who are already demographically devastated. In 4 years, the Croats will be much less and it will be much easier to repeat the same again. And what for the Republic of Croatia means to have for neighbouring BiH whose government has no legitimate representatives of Croats the best witness is the case when two Bosniak representatives in the presidency of Djafirovic, this great friend of Plenkovic, who sat on Vukovar and Zeljko Komsic when they wanted to press charges against the international court and stop the construction of the Pelješko Bridge. There would be no opening now where you would have paraded if Milorad Dodik hadn't vetoed the then Republika Srpska Assembly. Imagine the Republika Srpska Assembly protecting the Croatian Pelješki Bridge. Why? Because we had to rip something up somewhere and give it to Dodik. A thousandkm of border from BiH. With a country where there will soon be no representatives of Croats in neither the customs nor the police, and Croatia is a tourist country. So it's not just about the disappearance of Croats in BiH, it's about the medium-term unsustainability of Croatia, especially its, its south. In such a situation, the ultimate threat of the Republic of Croatia and the instability in the southeast of NATO's framework is a legitimate extension of NATO to the northeast to bring the situation to an end in the southeast of the common security framework. Croatia had every right to condition NATO's expansion by addressing the problem of a serious violation of the Dayton Agreement, whose Croatia is a co-signator and not implementing the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling. We're not looking for anything for ourselves that we wouldn't give to others. It is unfortunate that we have come to a situation that respect for this peace agreement must be forced to condition NATO's enlargement, but so. That wouldn't be a precedent. I've already been here for 10 examples where completely unrelated things were conditioned. The example of Cyprus, which is in September 2020, is sufficient. Cyprus vetoed Lukashenko's sanctions regarding Cyprus and Lukashanko and Belarus, 1,000km away, no direct but Cyprus conditioned the suspension of the veto when its EU partners take action against Turkey's activities in the Mediterranean in terms of oil and security research. And the veto is bearing fruit. Germany too, this Germany and other Turkish protectors have caved in and advocated harsh criminal measures against Turkey if it continues with the drilling. Cyprus accomplished its own. So, despite the fact that we have nothing against the expansion of the NATO Pact to Finland and Sweden, we felt that Croatia has a completely moral and political right to condition NATO's expansion through a solution to its burning national and security problem, whose solution comes down to respecting only the signed peace treaty and the ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court. The High Representative in BiH can resolve this with one signature, imposed on the basis of the Bosnian powers to amend the electoral law just as Croatians did 20 years ago by his predecessor Wolfgang Petritsch. It's a missed opportunity. It's mostly chat and vasala's fault, and we're where we are now, we have nothing to vote for. If there was an official connection between these two things today, we would say we cannot support enlargement until our partners show this minimum of goodwill and help change the electoral law in BiH, which they can or are more concerned with politically destroying Croats in BiH but are receiving Finland and Sweden in NATO. I don't think so. If the ruling in Croatia had connected these two things as first of all to the responsibility of the Prime Minister, but also that the President of the Republic persisted until the end and said in Madrid that he would call on the Croatian parliament not to vote, not to confirm this protocol until this burning Croatian problem was resolved, since we still had Croatian interests and survival in the first place, and only then Finland and Sweden, without the tightening of the vote on Friday. As the opportunity has been missed and the link has not been established, it is doubtful whether we should live in Finland and Sweden now, even though their downsizing before Turkey is considered embarrassing, embarrassing. These great moralizers, especially the Swedes, these superhumans, better than the rest of the world, the highest standards of respect for human rights and freedoms, the same people who, until yesterday, had been sheltered as political asylum seekers and had been declared terrorists overnight by Erdogan, will be extradited to Turkey for a certain liquidation. We see now that Grlic Radman calls them terrorists and the Kurdish Workers' Party and the Gulens, and where Gulen is, where is Gullen Mr. Grlic Radman, do you know where he lives, Gulen, in the United States. So they are hosting Gulen, and members of his party are called terrorists in the Croatian Parliament, Sweden is now calling them terrorists to be extradited to a secure liquidation in Turkey. So what are we talking about? That's NATO. The same NATO where a thousand kilometres of flying aircraft the size of a MiG falls on the capital of Croatia, God's transparency does not kill hundreds of students and nothing is known. Has anyone been relieved of that leak? Is it analyzed where the hole was created to patch it up in that safety umbrella? No, it's not. More about the details in the individual discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121414	Minister Gordan Grlic Radman has now come forward, entitled to 5 minutes as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121415	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, esteemed MPs. Mr. Rasludic, it's absolutely and well that you're involved in this debate, that you're sharing concerns, but I think she's a bit of an exaggerated nature, I didn't say they were terrorists. Of course, when we talk about.../incomprehensible/... but they're there like that, that's it. That's what Turkey said in all the conversations I've been taking part in, but what we're really going to do is, let's get this straight, actually, what it's all about in Bundestag. So this is actually about definitely two separate documents, an interlock, it's about a request, and they're brought on the basis of... The speaker speaks in a foreign language. And these both documents have two different, I mean, they're, they're, they're, they're different and they have weight and they're important and they have, of course, different procedures. And there's no such thing as, there's no clear predetermined rules and rules for dealing with individual documents, and that's, of course, up to the case. What is important to you, so what I was saying, therefore, is the requirement to vote on another document, the one about BiH came from the Bundestaga itself, so this is the basic document of this resolution on the EUFOR Althe military operation, so where they send 50 of their troops. It's basic, it was actually the only real debate. And this came out to mean, this is one of the accompanying documents that you're talking about right now and I guess about.../incomprehensible/... now I don't know what importance you give him, he's a minor because on these councils he doesn't appear like one. And on the other hand, here, watch out, parliamentary democracy and parliamentary diplomacy, so there's Bundestag, there's factions, there's your colleagues and colleagues upstairs, who's talking to who? Here is the only Mr. Cappelli who is chairman of the foreign policy committee, the committee called, however, there were conflicting views and did not want to go in writing, so it says parliament. Who's going to visit parliament? So there's this same group of friendships, like an interparliamentary group, so someone needs to talk to him. So Mr. Cappelli had before, I mean, he's gonna do it, he's modest so he didn't talk about it, the only one who sent this memo means where he expressed his concern, etc., so you can see what Mr. Cappelli was doing, alone, of course because he didn't have the support of the Committee, so those who were supposed to participate in it because the one who was the initiator of it, he was supposed to be here and in Zagreb, talking, etc., with his associates, and so on. I mean, it's, it's important, it's important, it's important, I mean, keep that in mind. I know that we, that the question of the position of the Croatian people to all of us is absolutely out of the question as, as it is not, that we are here, that this is our national interest. That it's the foreign policy interest of this government and, I mean, we're on the same track, but let's not spread defetism and some kind of, that's what I know, kind of negatively view it all. Look, in these 3.4 years, I mean what the Croatian government and I have been doing as Minister and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so far no one has done in the last 15 years. No one's ever done that. Look out, we,.../incomprehensible/... we have internationalised the Croatian issue in the international plan. Talks at all levels with our international partners are the latest issue in BiH at the Foreign Policy Council. Non-paper has also produced and sent Croatian diplomacy to the European Council of the EU. We have included a statement on the constitutional people in the EU strategic compass, which will, of course, reflect inevitably on the other main documents of Russia in the future. The organisation of scientific and professional conferences on Dayton, I do not know if you were present, we have strengthened the political and legal positions of Croats in BiH, unconditional support only to the demands of legitimately political representatives of Croats gathered in the Croatian National Assembly. And of course, there's a lot going on and there's still going on, quiet diplomacy is working, we haven't stopped. Well, I mean, that's our challenge, so our cheek and soul is in it all ours and where we represent. And secondly, if you let me just, it's not a pact, the pacts are gone, it's an alliance and we usually use the official Instead of official, so here's... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121416	Thank you. Let's go with the replicas, there's nine of them. First up, comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121417	Dear Minister Grlic. First of all, you have hardly offended President Jandrokovic, who is sitting behind you where you said that you are the first in 15 years to do something about it. Well, I'll remind you that Mr. Jandrokovic sitting behind you was the foreign minister at this time that you just claimed nothing was done, so you should apologize to him first. Secondly, the document was voted by all parties forming the ruling coalition in Germany, the SPD, the Greens, the Liberals. Plus your partner CDU, so the vast majority of you in the German parliament, you can't say it has nothing to do with it. Secondly, you yourself have said who creates foreign policy, you have listed the article of the Constitution, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now you are asking MPs from the opposition to write something to the Bundestag and react, and you are not to react, you must not direct, protest, or invite the ambassador to talk. And why did Cappelli write, not Jandrokovic? Because it was voted in the Bundestag. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121418	Thank you, colleague Rasudic. I see you're calling me, so just a quick answer. ... No, no, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So wait, wait, let me explain. Each, every government has its priorities. At that time, the EU and NATO alliance were to be joined. This was achieved during my term and then we also fought for the positions of Croats in BiH, but we were in a completely different position if someone who pursues certain goals and depends on all of these around to achieve those goals. Now that we have entered the EU and NATO alliance, from that position we can fight a little harder for the Croats and we are doing so and that is what colleague Gordan Grlic Radman is talking about. Don't worry about our relationship, and my colleague Cappelli is the first level, and if I have to react, because I'm going to Germany at 9 months and we're going to fight very hard for the interests of the Croats in BiH, but the situation is very complex, you know that, that could be solved by 20 or 30 years ago, everyone here has their own small, clean or dirty interests and in the West, so we're not sheep that we don't understand. You know who supports Serbs in BiH, you know who supports Bosniak Muslims, and the West is divided around this support, and there is a key thing why Croatia is struggling so hard to defend the interests of Croats in BiH, let's be realistic and objective. I apologize for taking my time, but since I was called, I had to defend myself. A colleague Milanović litre of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121419	Dear President of the Assembly, I don't know if you've responded to a replica or a colleague of Radman's, I mean, decide who, who, who's responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121420	My colleague Milanović, a colleague of Milanović litre, I was twice called by an MP, I may have gone a little too far, I apologize if I was wrong, but you must understand me too. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121421	What the president of HS said was true. I told you exactly that this historic context and Croatian membership in NATO and Croatian aspirations in the EU, but that, of course, the issue of BiH has always been addressed, but most of all it is the fault of the first government since 2000. which allowed the actual abolition of the amendments to the so-called Petritsch’s amendments and Barry’s 2002 amendments you're a witness. I remember that after entering the Herzegovačka Banka, I was one of the initiators of the Federation of the Associations of the Croats from BiH, I don't know where you were then, and I know where I was then, I remained that way in continuity, so I worry about those levels where I can when it comes to the position of Croats in BiH because I'm also interested in it because I, I have a family downstairs and it's my homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121422	Here you go, pal Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121423	Thank you very much. So I see that whether or not we are, I have a document and the agreement was on the Committee on Foreign Policy to send the document to my colleague Roth, president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, in which it is in some way the matter. He was translated into German and our ambassador, an ambassador to Berlin, delivered that letter seven days before any debate in Bundestag and any decision-making. The resolution was about Althe, so sending 50 German soldiers to BiH. The resolution did not refer to this document. It was through that resolution that discussed it. In this letter, we made it very clear, among other things, that Doris Pack was a German rapporteur on behalf of the European Parliament and we mentioned the declaration of BiH in this House in 2018 and everything else that we made very clear to the importance that what they think in the German Parliament will come to the question then and to the Dayton Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121424	Thank you, Comrade Cappelli. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121425	Thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli. I'd just line up, so I have a whole transcript of all of those because I was interested, I don't know, I think how much you were interested, so you should, in order to actually have insight into everything we have, we have to have all the information, we can't just know the general resolution, the resolution and create noise in space and deceive the public. So what we're following and what we're talking about means we know where we are and we know the power and, that accompanying document that you want me to do now, I don't know how to give some importance like it's the central question of this world order and, therefore, the international community. So as far as the CDU is concerned, they are, so it was a vote for this first document which was, which also has the executive power, so the executive power on Althea, it was an individual vote. As far as this second accompanying document is concerned, it was fractional. But we know here that CDU representatives spoke about the constitutional peoples and the issue of sustainability of BiH and the position of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121426	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121427	Dear Minister Grlic, therefore you talk all the time about some silent diplomacy, but every policy and every diplomacy is measured by the results, the results of your diplomacy are zero, so when we talk about protecting Croats in BiH and when we talk about amendments to the Election Law, when we talk about meeting the criteria set out in Chapter 23, so by Serbia where you break and a valid government decision, because the commission to monitor the implementation of the criteria in Chapter 23 does not meet, and should meet according to the government's decision four times a year. It's your silent diplomacy and that's your score.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121428	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121429	It's just your opinion this whole time, not all the time, and the other thing you're saying is that, that the results are zero, so of course when you don't know how to count from zero anymore, so you need to be directed to ours, our achievements, I'm going to present it to you today in three hours Mr. Grmoja and you'll see that you don't really understand achievements and how you think that all of this is normal, how you don't share wages, you don't provide security, how you don't deal with funds, how you don't go around the world where you should be, but you're just criticizing us and nothing, you're expending us with these unnecessary discussions where we're wasting time instead of acting and that you're polimising on one level that you're supposed to be with arguments, so all the public and it's good to actually understand who's actually doing what you are doing in this country because that you're actually leading to the state that I's not going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121430	Thank you, thank you, Minister. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by your colleague Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121431	He's been injured. 238, if my father did not participate in criminal conversion and privatisation as a communist power, if I do not deal with funds like HDZ's, so that they are arrested by the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not mean that I cannot discuss this issue, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121432	A colleague of Thunderbolt's, and why do you mention your parents? ... You mentioned it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do this. ... I'm warning you don't do that, don't do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're getting a warning. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121433	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I want to ask you first and ask you to explain something to someone who doesn't want to hear you, and he doesn't even care, but I want to ask you something else. To explain once again what you and this government are doing in this time for the Croatian people, for survival, for constitutionality and what you inherited from the government of Zoran Milanovic, in which you found a situation of foreign and Croatian politics. I'm sorry, but I've never seen Mr. Rasputic, I apologize if he wrote anything on behalf of his former Prime Minister's friend, a possible apology, but here, please, if you can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121434	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121435	Thank you very much for that question. Of course you missed the big...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121436	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On a colleague of Deura's or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121437	Yeah, but here's the general. The Honorable President has been injured in Article 238, here we have been discussing for the last hour what, the subject of Sweden and Finland, and you are the chairman I have at 3 o'clock an important topic where we will discuss the potential impeachment of Minister Grlic Radman, or our request, we are talking here today about a completely different topic. I think it went completely wrong and I think this is now entertaining the people with a topic that's not on the agenda right now. I'd like to ask you to bring order to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121438	My colleague Pavilichk is very often, it is difficult to draw a line between what is the weed, and what is little on the side, so I ask you to take this one and me as chairman. I'd rather have a discussion only on this subject, but as soon as someone touches and mentions ratification can talk then and much wider than that. Well, I'll appreciate what you've said, and I'll call the MPs, and we'll stick to these two points of the agenda now, and it'll be afternoon, and then we can analyze the work of the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. My colleague Deura's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121439	Mr. Deur thank you very much, here is what the president of the assembly said, of course, that there is a certain discontinuity, namely all HDZ governments are always boredom, so if we were to start a natural issue and the position of the Croatian people, it would always mean change, when new governments arrived that did not have that feeling and sensitivity, in fact, to address the unequal situation of the Croatian people in BiH, then we had actually a permanent break and a stalemate. This was the case in 2011, so you remember that President Milanovic celebrated his victory or voted and supported him, and he wanted to abolish the same votes to Croatians in the BiH, and I guess because of tax evasion, etc. So, and in the end, all of this tells you how abandoned that question was and how much in fact every new HDZ government is raising awareness of it, and now it's a good time to finally get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121440	Now it's Comrade Stier's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121441	Mr. Minister, you are leading a policy that requires equality for the Croats in BiH, you also mentioned a strategic compass. It is clear that there are voices in Germany that oppose it, which criticise you for it. They also brought a declaration to the Bundestag where you're being criticized, but then it's a paradox that they're accusing you of taking Berlin. So, Bundestag, or by adopting that declaration, and we knew that there are such forces that oppose you, criticise you, and former foreign minister, former President Mesic for this policy, they didn't get a declaration from Bundestag, you have criticisms from Bundestag because of the policy you're leading, but then here from the ranks of the opposition criticise you for being a vase of Berlin. Well, that's contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121442	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121443	Thank you very much, I think our interest in BiH is not actually made up of some, some conversation or with European officials, but rather of concrete effects. I'm in BiH all the time. I only speak to everyone in the interest of Croats in BiH. Here, I invite you to the 20th to St. Peter's. Ili is in Bugojno where Croats are unfortunately a minority there and I want to talk to the mayor of the municipality about the position to have the street names back as they were before, to encourage them a little because it's very important. This government has taken over, you saw that we have established a lot of consulates in BiH, and the next is Oresje Posavina and we will have a consulate in Orash in September. So here's one contribution, and I'm not talking about financial assistance to the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121444	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121445	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I've been planning on talking about Sweden and Finland, but obviously this isn't our topic today, so I'm going to continue in the context of my colleagues. No matter how much you agree with your colleague, Pavlichek...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121446	Well, now it's yours, your colleague has now called for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121447	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121448	Well, now your colleague has asked you not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121449	Yeah, my colleague said that, but obviously there were already two replicas you didn't absolutely warn one time about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121450	I called, but I thought you were consistent, but okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121451	I am consistent in that context in which you are consistent to respect the rule of the Croatian Parliament and not to turn away from the topic discussed. Obviously that's what this is about, so I'm going to quote you this time, every government has its priorities, every government can correct itself in that way towards the foreign policy that is currently focused. HDZ and all governments have never had a focus of BiH or Croatia in BiH so far. Croatians in BiH used Croats in Croatia primarily as an extremely specific and quality pool of people who came to help Croatia during the war, after the war or in the transition period of this EU entry, and continuing with this government, with the minister and with all decisions made by the EU And to Bundestag. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121452	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121453	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative. Of course, you have the feeling, and I have the facts, and what has been done for the Croats in BiH can only be thanked to HDZ. I'm telling you because, because I, I'm going, I'm going among the people, I'm talking to people and I don't know where you've been and who you've talked to, of course you've always got those who are unhappy about this or that, but as far as the Croats are concerned, I can tell you that I'm always going to the high forehead, that everything I'm doing is honorable and dignified in their interest because it's our own interest and I wouldn't spend a lot of words here, but look at a little bit of the work, and you don't want to see it, I'm very sorry that you're cut out for that information, that you don't recognize it, and we could work together on it because it's a national interest, and we're having a fruitless debate here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121454	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121455	Thank you, my dear. Art. 238, counterpart Grlic Radman, your contribution of Croats to BiH and Croatia is eviction, eviction from BiH where today only 15% of Croatians and emigration from Croatia, these are HDZ policies, foreign policies and policies of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121456	Col. Milanović litre, you get a warning, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121457	President-in-Office of HS, Minister Grlic Radman, with his statement that we can primarily thank the HDZ for this position, as the first one defames all other parliamentary deputies, so HDZ exercises power, behaves in the Croatian state, and the number of Croats currently in BiH is how many ministers 330-350 thousand means 45% of pre-war numbers, that is the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121458	Coliček, also a replica, has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. A colleague of Barbaric's reported the same for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121459	Your Honor, Mr. President. In 238, the difficult position of the Croatian people in BiH, although not a item of the agenda, is used for internal political opposition here in this assembly, which does not contribute to us at all. Whenever we have been a part of these disputes in recent history, it has always cost us, has always broken and broken on us, so he would ask his colleagues, today we are discussing NATO, this afternoon we will have a little more time to tell the facts and everything else, not to collect cheap political points at the difficult position of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121460	Comrade Barbaric, you yourself are aware that you have also replicated, so you also get a reminder. And my colleague Vidovic answered, didn't he? You gave up, okay. [[I've given up.]] Then we move on, now the minister will respond to the replica of his colleague Milanović Litre, no, or have you, have you, have you done it, have you, have you... Yes, it is, it is. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on, colleague Busic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really be following this schedule of ours, so I would discuss the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. However, as we all have somehow concentrated on this subject of BiH, or on, rather, the Antrag, I will call it what it is called, it is called Antrag, which is a recommendation from the Bundestag. I, I'm sorry that our colleagues who laughed a little bit about his German or how he wanted to explain it in German, I want to say really next, I followed everything in German and now I'll dare say I understand very well German, I know what was said, which was a debate that lasted only 30, 32-'3 minutes. The whole debate, a debate that lasted, decided to send German soldiers to BiH That decision came from the government. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Busic]] And this came from one intercessor. [[Intruder: Comrade Busic, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121462	Comrade Busic, thank you, the time has passed long ago, but really now this is about BiH again, we will talk about it from 3 hours away, let's now talk about what is equally important and has its security and political elements so that we can please come back. Here I support my colleague, Pavliček, even more strongly now, we stick to this topic, there will be time for these other discussions. Here are the ministers, the answer to my colleague Bušić Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121463	Here I agree, I also pointed it out at the beginning so that this is Mrs. Busic said it only confirms the truthfulness of my allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121464	Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121465	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we have listened to the president and former prime minister here all the time saying that by blocking the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and Finland to NATO, we can contribute to the better position of Croats in BiH. You spoke earlier, and I would like you to repeat that how and how can our blocking of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO contribute to a better position of Croats in BiH? And can you also comment on whether the better position of Croats in BiH contributed when former President Milanovic attended support meetings for Zeljko Komsic? I would also ask you if the antigonization of Croats and Bosniaks with his statements that Bosnia is "piece of shit", that how, as the first perfume then soap contributed to the same situation, a better position for Croats in BiH? Also commenting on whether the Urban Movement Mostar has ever contributed to a better position for Croats in BiH at one point?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121466	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121467	Thank you very much. Of course, I told you that you cannot, in fact, handle certain issues in the international community and democratic countries today by blackmail. This has only actually made our position worse, and yet so much ahead of us, in meeting our foreign policy goals, so these are two separate processes, so the accession of Sweden and Finland is one part, and this is about BiH, we follow it with equal dynamics and equal importance. Of course this, when we talk about this accompanying document and the one who started with it, we have this transcript in his, where the man said, this gentleman in Bundestag who encouraged there, there, this document that you call a Colloquial resolution he referred to as racist statements of someone from Croatia, and you know who and who was saying. Therefore, if it were not for such a statement by President Milanovic there would be no such accompanying document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121468	And the last replica of my colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121469	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you're lucky to have two diplomats who are greatly defending you, Parliament Speaker and former Deputy Prime Minister Davor Ivo Stier, who at least tell you to satisfy your form. Unfortunately or fortunately our fellow speaker of the assembly I very clearly told BiH who supports Serbs, who Bosniaks, but is not who you Croats are, and since it is your core bussines her your core bussines rotation ambassadors, it is not, it is not even you have to do, it is probably your assistant or director of the administration, your core bussines is to improve the position between the Croats between BiH. Who please taxing, one, two, three, four supports the change of electoral law and what have you done in this area, what countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121470	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121471	The change of electoral law is supported by all EU member states. BiH wants to gain candidate status. Therefore, when you look at 14 priorities and criteria that BiH needs to meet, one of these is a comprehensive reform that includes limited constitutional reforms and changes to the electoral law. That's what you should know. It is a major contribution from the Prime Minister because it means it in one important document that is the strategic compass in the conclusions of the European Council, so the references are related to equality and constitutionality. He organised a meeting on June 12th with Charles Michel of the European Council with the leaders of political parties in BiH to just pass the agreement that speaks of the acquisition of candidate status as one, as a prerequisite, it is essential that BiH become an institutionalally functional country, including the change of electoral status. So all EU countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121472	I thank the Minister, you can return to your post. He will now speak on behalf of the HSLS and Reformist MP Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121473	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to be back to the essence of the matter. It's the accession of Finland and Sweden to the NATO alliance. I'm going to look around maybe in the end and on these problems we've heard here, but I'm not gonna make it up to you. What is important, the deterioration of the security situation caused by the Russian invasion in Ukraine has prompted so far military neutral EU members Finland and Sweden to reconsider their security position in order to achieve the additional security and sovereignty of their countries due to the uncertain policy of Russia that they share a part of their border. Since it is a major change in the current foreign policies of these countries, both countries have conducted a public debate to gain the majority support of their citizens who believe that NATO membership is significantly strengthening their own area of operational action and strengthening the defence and security potential of Baltic and Northern Europe. This is after the Russian invasion of Ukraine a major step towards Sweden and Finland because they gave up their traditional military neutrality and demanded NATO's accession to the alliance. An official invitation for NATO membership was sent to the NATO Summit in Madrid on 29 June, and on 6 July, Sweden and Finland signed a protocol on joining the NATO alliance, which must then be confirmed by all members of the alliance and so Croatia has our assembly in it. Once he becomes a member of the NATO alliance, Sweden and Finland will be able to rely on the collective defence clause set out in the NATO statute. A new NATO strategic concept is also supported at the Madrid Summit. In the previous version of the 2010 document, Russia was described as a strategic partner of the alliance, while now after the aggression against Ukraine was marked as a major security threat to NATO members, which changes the entire strategy and defence doctrine of the alliance. As a result, the accession of Sweden and Finland to the alliance is particularly important for the NATO alliance as well as all its members because NATO is a collective security organisation, so the higher the level of security of the entire alliance is involved. The accession of Finland and Sweden contributes to a significant increase in the defence capacity of the NATO Pact because both countries have a respectable armed force and a very modern military industrial structure. Their NATO accession to the alliance will become a unique defence alliance ranging from Norway to Turkey's only hole will remain in the Balkans for a while. Finland and Sweden will fully become NATO-controlled zone, especially in Sweden, to achieve a depth of action that will greatly facilitate the defence of the Baltic states, which are currently the most endangered members of the alliance. Finally, perhaps most important for our interests by entering Sweden and Finland into NATO, the alliance will significantly increase the possibility of military technical cooperation with other members. Croatia is particularly interested because we have had excellent cooperation with Finland in this area, and cooperation with Sweden has weakened little, but now it is an opportunity to re-enhancing it on defence and security issues. Russian aggression has shown that the European members of NATO do not have sufficient quantity to effectively cover the border with Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. The war in Ukraine shows us from day to day that numbers are still as important a factor as the equipment of the armed forces. Therefore, the accession of Sweden and Finland undoubtedly strengthens the alliance itself and thus indirectly our security of the Republic of Croatia. That is why HSLS welcomes and supports the accession of the Republic of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance. What you would actually refer to is perhaps what we heard in the replicas of the past and in the statements of the BiH issue, as well as Montenegro. We've heard here that it was a matter of solving Prevlaka. I think the strategic victory of the NATO alliance was the accession of Montenegro to NATO, and the issue of Prevlaka and these can be addressed through bilateral issues. Why? If Montenegro hadn't been admitted to NATO, the alliance of cracks in the eastern wing of NATO would have been far greater, and that opportunity would have taken advantage of what Russia's foreign policy and Serbia are currently trying to destabilise Montenegro and change the relationship of forces in the region because of this, access to the open sea, in fact, to the Adriatic and the Mediterranean. I think that the planned visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia would have been quite possible to neighbouring R. Serbia if there had been this crack in the NATO alliance, so I think that the accession of Montenegro is one of the strategically better decisions of the NATO alliance and what made it possible for the entire defence alliance to be compacted to deal with issues concerning our border disputes of the electoral law in this matter by bilateral issues within the framework of EU accession and that this should be the basis of policy. The NATO Alliance should be singled out, the NATO Alliance issue from the EU issue and through these tools we need to address these issues. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121474	The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and on behalf of him will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš and the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. First honorary representative of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121475	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The idea of NATO as an organisation itself says it guarantees the freedom and security of its members through political and military means. In a political sense, NATO promotes democratic values and enables members to consult and cooperate on defence and security issues in order to address the problem, build trust and prevent conflicts in the long term. In military terms, NATO is committed to peaceful conflict resolution, but if diplomatic efforts fail, they have a military capacity to manage crises. And there comes often a provision of the mentioned article in the first place. 5 on the common defence of all Member States. Unfortunately, and this unfortunately cannot stress enough, the war in Ukraine reminded us of this security network that NATO has provided, and it also reminded Finland and Sweden, which they decided to join NATO after years of hesitation. As residents of a NATO Member State, I am pleased that the alliance in which we belong is joined by Sweden and Finland. These are two countries that are often our role models in various issues. Developed democracies that are dedicated to human and civil rights and freedoms, the developed success of an economy that adapts to energy transition and the preservation of the environment. These are the countries that perhaps the most successful of all combine human freedom and dignity with the social state, and this combination of liberal democracy and the social state is one of Europe's great contributions to our civilization. Finland and Sweden, of course, are also in military terms developed countries and are in line with NATO standards. Because of their political and military consistency, those after they have submitted their application for membership, this is the path they are taking in an accelerated procedure, and that is good. A NATO candidate can hardly be more prepared than Finland and Sweden. Finland and Sweden deserve NATO-guaranteed security, and NATO itself will certainly be much stronger with those two members. In this accession, everyone, both NATO and the old members and two new members, as well as the Baltic Sea region, who, unfortunately, has been found in a significantly worse security situation due to Russian aggression. Finland and Sweden have been working with NATO for 30 years and the government has agreed that partners are capable of achieving an international security system. They have been members of the Partnership for Peace since 1994 and their staff has participated in NATO missions in Afghanistan, the Baltic and Iraq. What is expected of joining 2 new NATO members is strengthening its eastern wing and total collective defence in Northern and Western Europe. At this point, perhaps the most significant change is a serious extension of NATO's border with Russia. That line extends by more than 1,300 km. Along with this, NATO's presence in the Baltic region and the Arctic circle is significantly increasing. A special fear of Russia after the invasion of Ukraine, a sense of the Baltic state and the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, in which Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia have certainly been strengthening their sense of security since 2004. The eventual defence of 3 Baltic states from Russia would probably demand the establishment of NATO bases in Finland and Sweden, which, of course, will be a red cloth for Vladimir Putin and remains to be seen as the part further develops. It is not to be ignored nor the fact that Russia has significantly invested in military infrastructure in the Arctic, and this accession strengthens NATO's counterweight in the region as well. With Finland and Sweden entering, all Arctic states will be members of NATO, of course, except Russia. What there is no doubt is that the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO is the most significant geopolitical consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. If it is true that one of Putin's main goals was NATO's weakness, it seems to have happened quite the opposite. Since he's gonna take that hit in the middle and in the long run, I'm afraid that's what's left for us to see. What we know, and what I stress, is that the Centre and GLAS Club will support Finland and Sweden's NATO entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121476	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, they will now speak... Oh, I'm sorry, I skipped, I'm sorry, my bad. Now for the rest of the time on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121477	I thank the Honorable President Reiner, don't worry, it happens to the best. So in the replica, the foreign minister said that the government, or the state, has one foreign policy, that it is known to everyone, which is the one that advocates and promotes and talks about by the government because it says so in the constitution. The foreign minister was wrong, so according to the constitution, the government can indeed lead foreign policy, but in the context of its powers, while the current practice ignores the fact that the constitution also requires that foreign policy-making, co-creation of foreign policy, the president of the state and the government must cooperate and do so together. The way the process of co-creation of foreign policy is going on is not known, no one has ever seen it, and neither is the law nor the constitution. All this is happening if any consultation is taking place, and so is the choice of our diplomats, without the ability to see and control the public, and we don't really know whether public interest is being protected in these negotiations and political outwittings, or whether it is raising the daily needs of individual officials and their political parties, all of this is very damaging to the Croatian state. In the past experience in the conduct and behaviour of the presidents of the state and the Prime Minister, it cannot be concluded that there is indeed one single foreign policy, nor can it be concluded that these two hills adhere to previously agreed views and values, which in itself constitutes evidence that the government does not exercise and does not perform as it is in the constitution and imagined. In addition to this problem that the two great hills, the president of the state and the Prime Minister are completely opposite and conflicting foreign policy positions, we also have a problem with the fact that when they speak about it, they also express and offer very vulgar and unworthy words, and they actually entertain the Croatian public. And it can indeed be something that some of our citizens have fun and seem funny to them, however, professionals in diplomacy, and also politicians and statesmen of other countries see well what this is all about and the Croatian interest and reputation in the world is terribly, terribly harmful. And our politicians, primarily the president of the state and the Prime Minister, should first of all be statesmen, statesmen, and be aware that the constitution restricts them to present in foreign political positions something that is not with the other hill and the second ego previously agreed and should no longer continue with this practice in which they are portrayed as ordinary circusers and entertainers of broad folk masses or themselves in love like Andrej Plenkovic. The fact is that to such behaviour neither HS as a constitutionalist nor a lawmaker can give an adequate answer because the procedure to initiate any breach of the constitution is practically an impossible mission, which means that we are an institutionally unfinished state in which unfortunately there is neither political capacity nor political will for this state to settle and regulate and normably prescribe to the end, from the constitution, to the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121478	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now be spoken by a respected representative, on behalf of, again, I was wrong to say, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, now will speak to the respected representative Rajko Ostojić. Now, I wanted to double your time. Here you go, dear representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121479	Thank you, Vice President. History is a life teacher "Historia est master's Vitae", we all know that. You don't think it's Mrs. Devereaux. Busic, it sure is. We have a lot of lovers of history, here's one behind me, Mr. Chairman, let's say, my smallness, we have Professor Grmoy who's not here and everything is in history, everything. Plato said the war was a natural state of the spirit, it's impossible that in one sentence he put war, nature and spirit, 500. before Christ, but that's right. When it was essentially the first war, the difficult question, very difficult, highly likely at a time when there was no sign of literacy or even of caves, but it is known that the first documented war, but the documented war, was 2700. Before Christ, so five thousand years ago almost, a war in southern Mesopotamia between Sumer and Elam and since then, ma'am. Busic wars are everyday, and that's why I said that history is a teacher of life, or at least it should be, but obviously we don't learn about it. 500 g. Before Christ, Greek poet Ashil said the famous and the soldiers, there are not many soldiers, there is no Edur, there is no Deputy Prime Minister, but often the soldiers and Croatian defenders say, military commanders, quote, in the war first suffers the truth and so it is, first it gets true if everyone has their truth under quotes. I'm talking about time 2.5 thousand years ago, today, if there were no drones at the time of ancient Greece, there were no supersonic missiles, there were no ballistic missiles, there were no ballistic missiles, hundreds of innocent victims being killed today with the truth, that's the difference, so in the war first there was truth, that Ashil was right, an old Greek poet, but today people get hurt because of these people, not because of the truth and manipulation and misinformation we are here today, and that's why the Social Democrats Club will fully support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO alliance. Of course in the time of the 21st century, the 3rd and 4th industrial revolution, information communication technologies, Vibera, WhatsApps, all of these networks you have, signals and similar telegrams truth so-called. The truth comes to a monstrous extent. Look at the last war, look at our Homeland War. That's enough counseling. You remember the Spegels affair. You remember how the movie on the general, Croatia, the commander of the 5th military area that Croatia was supposed to do under quotes. Remember that, 30 years... I speak English that the minister understands me, we can speak German. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, who will enter that truth? There are a whole series of portals, Google the truth, tsunami truth, untruth, misinformation, manipulation and in this war, and I will especially repeat during the Serbian aggression on Croatia and the Homeland War. Just before I Googled it, I looked at the time it was July 1914, it was warm 35 degrees today on July 14, 1914. There were four great empires at that time, in '14, four great kingdoms of the Ottoman Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the German Empire and the Imperial Russia. 14 days from the day of July 28, '14. World War I started, but on July 14th, the Viennas went for a swim in Opatija and Brijuni, they didn't go to Dalmatia, Dalmatia didn't know what tourism was then. They were taking a bath because no one wanted to believe there was going to be a war. No one wanted to see it, believe it was going to be a war. They had a cold, they had fog. The war was there because the 28th of June was an assassination in Sarajevo, a month after the normal war would begin, but people were scrambling, the music was shaking, and they enjoyed the poof war and what they called it, the great war. So pompous and described by the war that, I have to look at what it says now, a war that will destroy all wars. That's right, a war that will end all wars. That's what they called him. You know what? Because 60 million European citizens participated in the war, there were 50 million victims and 20 million Europeans died. How naive of us. Well, the minister is actually lucky that he had today's transport of Stier and Jandrokovic in an explanation of whether he looks naive or speaks naively, but I absolutely don't understand him. 21 years after that war that ended all wars began World War II. It's just the end of the war. And again. After our war we won, after the Serbian aggression and the Homeland War we all said no more war, here it is from us, only Hungary divides us from Ukraine. What happened after World War I? Four empires have disappeared, a series of states have been created, one of them is Finland. Nicely said the minister by 1917, Finland became an independent state until then was part of the Imperial Russia, not saying that you said it exactly, you said it exactly and from there was its neutrality. And exactly you said Sweden's neutrality and you told the third state of Austria exactly. But naively you think Austria will be neutral and that its international right protects its neutrality. He'll certainly join someone when he's or-or, God forbid he's or-or. So we need to learn something from this history because today we are witnessing at least I am spiraling global madness. Global madness, European madness, madness in Croatian politics as spoke by Mrak Taritaš and Dalia Oreshkovic, in some parts of politics. Unresponsible statements, vulgar statements, unfounded statements. Declarations that burn, that raises the lowest passions, so it's just not good. It just doesn't lead, it doesn't lead to anything. I've had enough of this war. I was at war while some were somewhere else, and I was older than those who could go to war, and they didn't go to war, and you were even older, that's right. Of course, my colleague Reiner and I were doctors in the war, we weren't defenders like defenders are real in terms of large perhaps heroes of the Homeland War, such as Ante Kotromanovic of SDP, Ante Deur, or perhaps among them Deputy Prime Minister Medved, but we were at war. We've been attacked and I've had enough of this war. So both Finland and Sweden have decided to move out of their neutrality. It's probably because it's not easy to move away, stop being neutral, it's terribly hard, remember Einstein, the world is a dangerous place to live, not because of the evil people there's always but because of the good people who do nothing. And that's why Sweden and Finland decided to do something, and maybe Austria will, too, Mr. Minister, maybe it will, maybe it won't. Because as Russell says the basic problem in the world is that fools are too confident, boastful, irresponsible that I have added, he said only fools are too confident, and unfortunately smart are constantly in the dilemma. Now this is the time for dilemmas, this is a serious matter. We'll leave the dilemmas for something else, and that's why Mr. Minister, you really don't have to be angry when we call you Bundestag and the statements and other things because both Cyprus and Turkey have done something. I was taught to negotiate, and I finished.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... they said three things. The optimum can't get that, by boot or line bottom below, you can't, and the beating saves you, beating you saves the best alternatives it had Cyprus, it had Turkey, it had Turkey, it we didn't have and we don't have, we don't have a beating because the single policy. And it is good that Milanovic supported it in Madrid at a historic summit. But let's really try to get back to my first sentence, history is a teacher of life, and we learn something from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121480	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative of Krešo Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121481	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it's time for a little or something different opinion. I could, I listened carefully to my colleague Ostovic, I could sign 99.99% of what he said. Yeah, history is a life teacher. Yes, there was a great war, later called the First World War, so there was an even bigger war, there was everything, but I, I was the most impressed and the most I sign a statement that was generally known that when there was a war, that the first thing that got hurt, that's the truth. Living today in the time of truth that we are given through national corporations that have taken over all the media in the world or almost everything, so we don't know who the owners are, even in Croatia, let alone the truth of someone, so the world powers want us to believe. I don't believe that truth. It is in the nature of every thinking man to question everything that is being placed on him and to seek out his own truth and ask if it is exactly what it says. So let's say, one single, well, just one example I'm going to make about this war in, between Russia and Ukraine, and that's an article from the other day where we and the whole of Europe are in a panic, which is going to be if Russia stops delivering gas and oil, which is waiting for us in the fall. Have we not imposed sanctions on Russia? Isn't Russia under sanctions? What do we care about Russian energy if we don't buy it? Obviously, the truth is somewhere else. So that's what the same journalists write. So we're going to impose sanctions on Russia, loud and clear for them and it should, it's aggression, it has to be shown in some way that it's not allowed in the 21st century, and it's never been allowed, and on the other hand we're shaking and we're afraid of what's gonna be autumn. It's contradictory, it's two contradictory truths that are being placed across the same media. It's about Sweden, it's about Finland. It's about, and it's always about their centuries of neutrality, the principle that now, under the influence of the world's events, they'd no longer be neutral but become part of the defense alliance. I have to say very openly, the NATO Alliance has been no defense alliance for 20, 30 years. So no NATO alliance was attacked or we had anyone to defend ourselves from. Action or mission, as someone said in Afghanistan and Iraq, then we could withdraw, if we're up to the truth, then tell me that Russia is on a mission in Ukraine. So it wasn't any missions in Afghanistan or Iraq but it was an aggressive attack on Afghanistan, on Iraq with questionable, questionable reasons that were not clarified today after 9/11, the NATO Alliance participated. Not to mention other things, and there were, so there were. Sweden and Finland played neutrality, and it wasn't. They participated in all wars, however, Sweden was a beneficiary of Marshall's plan after World War II, please? So there was no war in Sweden, that the entire Second World War would basically be a silent ally, which compensated for saving the lives of Jews, etc., etc., etc., but traded with Nazi Germany, which needed Swedish raw materials. Finland was even less than we can understand, since before World War II it was so-called. The Winter War, where the Soviet Union attacked Finland, took away some of its territory, so the entire Second World War until '44. until the Germans were expelled from the Soviet Union on the German side in every possible way, and then guaranteed it to remain within the existing borders without what Russia had taken from them before the war, provided they were neutral. Neutral and they respected it and became part of Western democracy, etc., etc. So these two countries weren't neutral or just on paper. Now they're entering the NATO alliance because they're afraid of aggressive Russian politics. Okay. I can understand, we were at war too, and if we were lucky, if we were to be able to seek NATO membership before the Homeland War, I'm sure that all of the Croatian people would have supported it, perhaps there would be no war. There may be no war, nor would there be a world force headed by the NATO alliance then decided that there would be no war in the former Yugoslavia because this is how, with one move of feathers, a telephone conversation could calm Milosevic and say, the war in the 20th century in Europe is out of the question. But they didn't do it. In fact, the Swedish Carl Bildt, one of the most famous Swedes we know in this area, has been waiting for his doctorate and is still on the table, accused the Croats a few years ago that they are responsible for the cleavage, so-called. Supporting the separatist forces in BiH, which is certainly insane and rude of the man who defended Milosevic, from the man who was against the Liberation Action Storm, from the man who said you stupid Balkans are just at war, well, well, well, Mr. Carl Bildt, former prime minister, former minister, former representative of the Kingdom of Sweden, now we can probably say nothing to you, so nothing will happen to you, what NATO alliance, peace, preserve peace, conduct talks, and do not enter into confrontation immediately. Well, that should be our answer. Our response to the people who had still given us 30 years of proof of how war should be waged, not war, but diplomacy, as I imagine, as they led her with Hitler between '41. And until '45. Mr. Finland and Sweden, I'm sorry. I repeat, I can understand their demands at this time as quickly as possible by joining NATO. But I am even more sorry about Croatia and I am even more sorry about BiH or the Croats in BiH because no one in this Parliament or in Croatia or in the world will convince me that there is a worse geostrategic or potentially war situation in Scandinavia than in the Balkans, or Southeast Europe. No one can convince me. However, I see British and US diplomats in BiH who continue to cook, continue to cook the situation in BiH rather than calm it down. We, Croatia, need Croatia to be first. I love the Ukrainians, I love the Swedes, I love the Swedishs and the Finnishs, I love the Americans, I love everything. But I love Croatia the most. Croatia comes first to me. And if Croatia is in the first place,.../incomprehensible/... we need to condition resolution, not only in BiH, but in the entire Southeast Europe area, calming down, stabilising this situation so that we do not have a 10th or 11th war in the last 100 years at the very borders. And then you can forget tourism, and if there is no tourism, and there was no tourism in '92, '93, '94, '95, only '96. in the tracks, then you can forget the Croatian economy and then you can forget the danger of sanctions from the sad autumn as it awaits us, then we are facing a catastrophic fall. The disaster fall, primarily Croatia located on the edge of NATO's alliance and on the edge of the EU, has not even gained its status here in BiH. So there should be a condition to resolve the issue of Southeast Europe and then there will be no problem for both Finland and.../incomprehensible/... and Finland and Sweden to accept any alliance they want. If we are a full member of the NATO alliance with the right to vote, with the right to veto, then we will act that way. Nothing against Sweden, nothing against Finland, but for Croatia, for Croatian interests, for the interests of our neighbours, Croatian diplomacy must be fought for. By the way, while we're at the Bundestag, I'm going to touch that, those resolutions or non-resolutions, binding or non-binding, now I'm reading on the portals that Bosniak nationalists attacked Mr. Juranovic, I think... Juratovica, who is otherwise a representative of the left because he had objections to the text of the resolution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They attacked him and wouldn't let him speak for the Srebrenica fall. That's only because he's a Croat, Mr. Grlic Radman. That's what Bosniak nationalistic diplomacy in Germany does, and we can't do it, in your own words. We can! I am sure that the Croats have much more in Germany than there are Bosniaks, that we have much stronger connections, much stronger opportunities, that we are much more bound, that our diplomacy, if it wishes, can make a step in the direction of concern for Croatian interests. And this is used as a diplomatic option, so as Cyprus did, as Turkey did, and yes, it may have been separate things for you, but in the case of Cyprus you weren't. I will conclude, Club of HSS, Croatian Peasants' Party and RF, Workers' Front They will vote against the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121482	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ante Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121483	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. I'm sorry to hear that we heard this historic display of our colleague from HSS, but I'm sorry that at the end of my presentation I thought we'd invite him all to be for these two final drafts of the law and I think we're sending a wrong message at these moments, if we're not unique, as we were not unique, i.e. We have had one abstention from this club about and on about the Declaration on Ukraine, and I think it is devastating that everything we do for Croatian diplomacy and Croatian interests on the international plan and here, I call on Friday to tomorrow that colleagues from the Workers' Front and HSS have given little thought and yet support these two countries, our friendly countries on their way to the North Atlantic Alliance, because I think we may remember the last 30 years that all Croatia has been through and how much international reputation and international recognition meant to us and how many problems we have had and how many years we have suffered and suffered and may have had fewer victims in the Homeland War and less suffering that we have been before, faster acknowledged and that our struggle has been recognized earlier and that our struggled earlier and faster than our allies today. So here, I appeal, I meant it in the end, but here at the beginning I'm going to appeal to all my colleagues to think about it a little bit and support these two final drafts of the law. After this introduction, namely, we have before us the meaning of the access protocols concerning the Washington Treaty itself, ratifications and end of the process in all 30 NATO member states as the last instrument of ratification for Finland and Sweden to become full members of the NATO alliance, i.e. 31 and 32 Member States, respectively. Why is the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO an important alliance, not only for the NATO alliance, not only for the EU but also for Croatia, but for the full peace currently in the field of the European continent? We know what's going on and we know what geopolitical and strategic times we live in and what Russia's aggression on Ukraine means. I will commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because I think that after the Baltic Parliaments, we are one of the first parliaments, the first parliaments that even discusses this ratification, this shows the speed of our external diplomacy, but shows our friendly relationship, but also the policy of reciprocity and reciprocity regarding accession, not only in NATO but also in the EU, but also in all other alliances where we think our friendly countries deserve to be, and the security of economic, but also in all other political reasons. As far as geographical-strategic features are concerned, with the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, the Baltic Sea, related to military maritimeity, becomes a strategic sense of becoming, colloktically speaking, a sort of internal sea of the NATO alliance, because now almost the entire coastal area of the sea, except for the relatively narrow appearance of a wider area related to Kaliningrad and related to St. Petersburg de facto, will now be controlled by allies and NATO Member States that area which I think has always been a strategic goal of NATO, and now, looking at the situation in Europe, we succeed in achieving this goal and achieving it. We will not mention the NATO, NATO allies and NATO forces in the airspace of Finland and Sweden, which until yesterday was very problematic, especially regarding the supply of Baltic countries, but also about protecting the borders of the NATO alliance itself, which we are here from the foreign and European ministers and heard in the opening explanation. This very ratification is the path and goal of the NATO Strategic Compassion itself, which was recently adopted, here was also the admiral of the commander himself, the very wartime NATO Alliance, who presented to us the strategic compass itself and, in fact, how much it has changed these years just now, adapting to today's times and situations. When we mentioned a NATO alliance two days ago, we were mostly discussing NATO financing the alliance itself regarding that share of GDP of the Member States that are paying into this defence security alliance, we are now not talking so much about finance, we are now simply concerned about security and the European continent, but we also care about security for each NATO member country because we know about the article ourselves. The 5th and possibility of defence, but also the threat we feel today in a Europe that was not, which could not have been imagined several years ago. As far as Finland and Sweden themselves are concerned, we do not need to look at this, what I said in the opening, opening line, we should not view it exclusively as some ad hoc solution to the situation, but we need to look a little bit wider. NATO has always wanted Finland and Sweden in their ranks and is doing their strategic position normally, but also the very composition and size of those countries, which we have heard Sweden itself has 10 million inhabitants, Finland 5 and that unlike NATO members, one subject that we often discuss here is especially about this war, which is the theme of the reserve and the military deadline itself. Finland and Sweden have been working their policies and for the sake of their development of the defence forces for a long time and have never given up on their reserve powers, one large, large contingent of people from some 15 million people in an interesting and strategic area we can be sure that they are trained, that they have completed one basic training, that they know how to handle weapons and that NATO will contribute to the alliance when we look quantitatively. This is normally a strong political decision, is this exactly what we are opening political structures between NATO member states and Finland and Sweden themselves. I'm not going to mention it here, and we've been working with these two friendly countries for many years, especially the military industry, not to mention armored vehicles, ships that we're using, military planes and everything these two countries produce, so as far as the NATO alliance itself is concerned, there will be benefits in this respect. As far as Russian propaganda itself is concerned, we have not mentioned much of the nuclear war itself, which was mentioned in part in the event of a major threat or the possibility of the disappearance of a particular country or a certain territory. I think that we are doing exactly the opposite of Finland and Sweden, we are just protecting democracy, we are showing as a NATO alliance and we are not afraid and that as a community of both democratic and free-minded states we will do everything best for the security of each member, we are expanding in this way and the Euro-Atlantic family itself. We know often here in the assembly to use these two states as a good example related and sociological not only defensively and safely, we know how arranged these two countries are and that we have very much to learn from them and this is the legitimate interest and right of every country to look in any way for a safe port and, yes, safe haven and a safe framework for its further action and protection of their personal interests. I believe that in this collective responsibility will be this very shield of Finland and Sweden, don't God ask, but that it will surely have it, about some security threats we can through an individual debate, it's getting less and less time. I will point out that, we mentioned part of it and what is happening today in Ukraine and that the repercusions that this aggression of Russia puts into question such a large country, we can continue to debate further, we need to focus precisely on the politics of the Republic of Croatia. I agree here with all predecessors that the interest of the Republic of Croatia must normally be in the first place, but as we have heard from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our interest is security, and security can only be made possible by collective defence, but also by co-operation between Member States, but normal and enlargement policy for which Croatia is looking at all alliances from the EU through NATO alliances to all other world organisations has always had a policy and has always appreciated what we needed in the 1990s, and this is exactly the international recognition, so we have never been even the brakes of other countries just joining any association, and in particular, a defensive and security character. This is also an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia, I believe that we will also take advantage of it in our personal relations with Finland and Sweden and in the development of the military industry, we have these common topics, and here I am looking forward to these two countries joining the North Atlantic Pact membership and having opportunities, an alliance, and that we will have opportunities for our colleagues tomorrow to see in some peace missions together with our soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121484	Thank you. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is good that Croatia is a member of NATO, the NATO Alliance is one, it is one vital interest and experience shows that NATO is doing well in its main tasks. What I said earlier, however, is that NATO as such is not a purpose for itself. Even after the collapse of communism in Europe and after the end of the Cold War, there have been serious debates about the meaning of NATO's existence, and we see in fact that it is very good that this alliance has been maintained because of Putin's aggression on Ukraine has been given a new, new justification for its existence and no one, no one will doubt it. The country's movement certainly supports Finland and Sweden's NATO entry. We've been pretty clear about this since the beginning, but a few words need to be devoted to the process and the controversy that has been caused in recent months. So President Milanovic himself recently changed his rhetoric and attitude in Madrid in some way and recognized that at this point the unity of the alliance is of vital interest. So, regardless of the disagreements with the government, I think that in the end, prudence won. However, I would like to look back on the fact that every country, even if it was a smaller member, has the right to advocate its strategic interests as Turkey has made and received some concessions regarding the treatment of people she considers terrorists by Finland and Sweden, so Croatia could, in my opinion, have done more for Montenegro's NATO entry 2017. So, I will remind you that there is still a border dispute with Montenegro in Prelaca. We could certainly get the understanding of our allies back then for that question. However, Croatian politics did nothing, no, there were no tensions between Pantovic and the Ban Courts, so at the time of former President Grabar Kitarovic. And I find that a failure, I think the minister might have admitted it before, because things are always complicated, but the fact is, we haven't even tried to fight for what belongs to us. Today, the situation in BiH is unacceptable for Croats and it is certainly legitimate to raise your voice about these problems. About election laws and other circumstances that do not apply to us, it is a Croatian obligation. However, this must always be said in a wise, discreet way to do so. It's very dangerous in politics to make a public announcement that you can't deliver it often ends up getting worse than before. And unfortunately, I think that this case is now, after all of Finland and Sweden's accession, the way it happened in our public. So, in order for us to achieve something for the Croatian people in BiH, we must first in Zagreb achieve at least some kind of consensus and common position. I know it's difficult, and now it's even harder, it's almost impossible, and surely the Croats will not benefit from it. However, as far as this issue is concerned, given what the world is looking at in Ukraine, I think it is indisputable that Finland and Sweden have the right to seek membership and that Croatia as a reliable ally supports it. However, I would like to say a few words about the argument of the Russian side that it is trying to justify what it does to the Ukrainian people. It's a lot like '91. And rhetoric, a great Serbian rhetoric by Milosevic. So the Orthodox Church's behavior is unfortunately very similar. So, the Russian Orthodox Church today similar to that done by the Serbian Orthodox Church justifies brutal aggression on the neighbouring country. It makes it open without hesitation. So the world has a chance to see now unfortunately, it took a long time for the free world to recognize who the victim is and who is the aggressor in our Homeland War, here thank God it's a lot of dumps come to the surface and people could recognize what it's really about, but the argument is very similar. And I'm afraid many have not learned from it. So we hear a lot about how certain tragedies can't be repeated and similar, but they repeat themselves, they repeat themselves. So we certainly accept the logic of collective defence, I think it is certainly in the Croatian interest to continue to be a reliable member of the NATO alliance in this case, so we will vote definitely for Finland and Sweden. But I'll repeat, we need to take better advantage of some of the opportunities that are being provided because it would disagree with the minister, and I'm sorry he's not in the assembly that said he's optimistic and some things are going to make up for it. Very hard, very hard. So, I will repeat once again not just for ours, our commitment to my border with Montenegro to get rid of it as soon as possible but we could and I think of it as a bit more to fight for the position of Croats in BiH. Then. And it couldn't have even tried. I didn't even hear the HDZ demands in BiH at the time to put it on the agenda, which could have been. So we need to keep working to sensitize the world’s public for what is important to us. And in this respect, I understand what President Milanovic tried to do but unfortunately it had to end this way. So, I'll repeat, it's not good to announce something you can't deliver. The country's movement continues to see Croatia benefiting greatly from NATO membership. This drone incident, however, should keep us awake. Many still found it almost incredible that it could have happened to fly over NATO's airspace for so long and fall and thank God no one died in the middle of Zagreb. However, we have not yet received adequate answers, and we believe that someone had to pay the price in his position. They act in NATO as if nothing was disputed, even the secretary-general's first statements did not instill confidence as if he did not know exactly what had happened, so we must remain awake. The main guarantee for our security is the Croatian Army, the Croatian Army, and therefore we will continue to push for more funds for our defence in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121486	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121487	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues over the past 100 years, mankind has actually been through four major crises. A major economic crisis in the 1930s, an energy crisis has been remembered by someone in the 1970s, so the oil crisis, the global economic crisis in 2008 as the third crisis and today the culmination of the energy and military crisis. The volume of negative economic trends, therefore, in these cases entails deeper political and social earthquakes and processes within national borders. A new geopolitical alliance is being created8i among the states and is changing dominantly I will say savage, neo-capitalistic some paradigm of development that has ruled so far. The world is changing, and I'm going to stop there because this isn't a topic now or geopoliticals, and it's not a topic of new alliances and new blocks. I'm going to say something about a democracy index that is extremely important. So, the index of democracy measures electoral processes and pluralism, measures the functioning of the state, political participation, democratic political culture and civil freedom. The overall result is an average of 5 categories of public policy, and the score ranges from 0 to 100%, and based on the score, there are 4 categories of state or so on. political rule. The first countries are full of democracy, so countries that respect civil freedoms even at the level of ordinary political culture, and the problems of democratic rule are only limited, the media are independent, diverse, have no influence on mass media, no underpaid media, the judiciary is independent, and judicial decisions are implemented. The order on a scale full of democracies look at the interesting who leads, leads Norway, Iceland and Sweden that almost have complete score. And after Norway, Iceland and Sweden followed New Zealand and Canada, and then Finland and Denmark. So all 5 Nordic countries are among the top 10 liberal democracies. A circle of more liberal democracies closes Ireland, Australia, the Netherlands. I'm going to skip second category, and I'm going to mention third and fourth. The third category is hybrid regimes. The hybrid regimes have only apparent elections with electoral fraud, government repression over the opposition, widespread corruption and political dependence on the judiciary, low levels of rule of law, participation and political culture representing Ukraine. And we have a fourth so-called. authoritarian regimes, which are those in which political pluralism does not exist, are systematically disrupting civil freedoms, suppressing criticism and the media is under state control. In this round, then, the countries by the index of democracy include Russia and, for example, China. It is precisely from these last countries that there is a clear link between the internal policies of such regimes with their foreign policies that are directed against liberal democracies. And now a little more about Finland and Sweden and their political participation. What makes them great? High turnout of voters in the elections, a reasonable level of political autonomy, ethnic, religious and other minorities, the share of women in parliament, the engagement and interest of citizens in politics including media monitoring, the share of political parties and organisations in the population, the willingness of citizens to participate in legal and non-violent protests, the level of literacy, the promotion of political participation by the education system and other bodies. Then, apart from political participation, there is something called a democratic political culture, which means sufficient consensus of society and cohesion on stable functional democracy. Then the share of citizens who do not want a strong leader who would bypass and neglect parliament and elections, the share of citizens who support democracy as the best form of government and strong and traditional separation of the church and state. Then we can call civil liberties here. So it's the presence of free and printed electronic media, pluralism, the absence of domination and the concentration of one or two private owners, and the absence of state and control, the existence of freedom of expression and protest, with a natural restriction in cases of fostering violence, the freedom of professional and trade union, institutional opportunities for citizens to submit petitions, a very large level of religious tolerance and freedom of expression of faith, in the absence of restrictions on religious communities, which includes the restriction of private and public religious services and the absence of feelings of injury of certain religious groups from others despite forms of equality. And, of course, the most important equality of citizens before the law without favouring individual groups and individuals. All of this is marked by Finland and Sweden, I would dare say Denmark, which are countries we should seek as a young liberal democracy, and Finland and Sweden have chosen to join Euro-Atlantic integration through social consensus. Although the world is changing, as I said at the outset, still a large number of elements are valuable and institutionally involved to make our country today's extended, which is the EU, still one of the rare geopolitical factors of liberal democracy in the world. And the same is true, we can't kill, that the Union is still dependant on North America, that is. The U.S., which is also, as much as I agree or disagree with, in which countries too, Trump can win, so there is still another factor in democracy, and therefore probably, essentially, after World War II, there is a NATO alliance. For these very reasons, therefore, which I have listed through the index of democracy, and if that is a decision, the decision is by Sweden and Finland, so the SDP Club will support the bill, i.e. This proposal for a law that is today at a united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121488	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121489	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, society is changing at an extremely difficult rate, nearly five months since Putin’s war - destruction campaign, and during the five months on the political agenda, it has changed quite a bit. The mechanisms, procedures and decisions of European institutions, in relation to the situation before Russia's destruction, are rapidly progressing, unreal, given my knowledge of red tape within the EU, but the EU is not the only institution that has changed the way its policies are implemented, so have the Member States at national levels, especially in the context of national defences, preparedness and military capacities. For example. We can take Germany, the largest Russian ally in Europe, who has realized that he has to deal more seriously with his defence obligations in NATO. With Sweden and Finland, Denmark announced it plans to meet NATO's criteria for spending a minimum 2% of GDP on defence. Even Italian Prime Minister Draghi called for an increase in defence spending, he said that today's threat from Russia is an incentive to invest more in defence than we ever did before. All of this is proof that Putin's brutally broke the boy's dreams of many, especially those who like to call themselves progressives. It is precisely these progressors across Europe who, whether they want it or not, have become followers of the Polish national policy that has warned for more than 10 years about the threat Russia poses to Europe. Poland was aware that national military capacity and preparedness were crucial to the protection of Member States within the EU. We already went public on these problems in front of the Sovereign Club, above all General Sacic, who pointed to the need to unfreeze the military deadline within Croatia. I purposely mentioned national military capacity and readiness because no one will care about the Croats unless we take care of ourselves and ourselves about our defence capacities and abilities. While this is also the case of a drone that, a drone weighing more than 6 tonnes and more than 14m, crashed in the Croatian capital a month after the Ukrainian invasion, overrun the two NATO alliances without any warning from Croatia. Despite these problems I have talked about, I personally believe that NATO membership has more advantages for Croatia than there are shortcomings, but it is necessary and we need to be aware that if there is a worst situation, which is a situation like World War III or some major danger within Europe, Croatia must and can only count on itself and its military capacities. Sweden and Finland are a good example of exactly such policies. They have been on the West's side so far and are largely part of it, but have not seriously sought NATO membership out of fear that regional stability will be violated, and also because of at least now, by then, a soft public support for the idea of joining the alliance. The concrete co-operation between Sweden and Finland with NATO exists today. For example, by participating in a major military exercise in the region of Denmark, Cold Response 2022, and their action and membership in the NATO alliance goes into spite of the threat of Vladimir Putin, who at the beginning of this mindless war campaign threatened the serious military-political consequences of all those involved in NATO's expansion into the Baltic and Nordic countries, as well as across Europe. Nor should the request be forgotten, or letters to the governments of Sweden and Finland, from Putin’s dentist Lavrov, who required some security guarantees from them in early February. Sweden and Finland responded to this through a collective EU letter, and it is necessary to mention here once again, I have already talked about it, in the context of the EU, the Lisbon Treaty containing a clause on mutual defence, but the EU defence clause is not worth mentioning, it is only a wet dream of some federalists such as HDZ and Vucic's cracks, socialists and ALDE. Today in the wake of the problem with Russia, these will again call for the establishment of a European army that has absolutely no legitimacy. But if the Brussels hands agree, I have no doubt that this government, as its next strategic goal after the euro, will be ready to hand over the Croatian army into the hands of bureaucrats and European powers under the pretext of modern sovereignty. International, which Croatian sovereigns stand for, but modern sovereignty in which there is not too much room for people and their desires. Now, unlike our government, the government in Sweden understands the importance of people's opinions where conservative parties have actively engaged in the campaign to join NATO as quickly as possible, which, of course, resulted in the first time in a public opinion survey in Sweden, there is a majority that is to join the alliance. If we remember, there were situations and where the Swedish government issued a referendum on the euro where the people came forward, they simply said, we do not want the euro. This will never happen with us because direct democracy does not live in Croatia. This turn is actually a total turn of policy by the Social Democratic Swedish authorities who only a few months ago pronounced the socialist mantra across Europe to make such political moves additionally.../incomprehensible/... they would further destabilise the situation. On a similar, actually identical argument I listened to from our progressive forces on the left hand side of the assembly when I collected signatures to declare genocide over the Ukrainian people of Holodomor and to condemn the communist regime of Joseph Stalin. Absolute same arguments come from the left side of the assembly. However, the Swedish authorities did have a valid cause for concern, unlike our progressors. Given Putin's threats about the expansion of the NATO alliance, and with us left-hand Russians, but also right-handed, I can say that there was resistance, which could not be forced to condemn to them the close political regime of Joseph Stalin. The process of joining Finland and Sweden could take about a year, since each Member State must, independently, ratify its accession to membership, but given how much Putin is able to unite the West, it may happen earlier. Putin's so-called The special operation should have been only the first step in re-takening all post-Soviet states, re-established control of Central Europe, and seeing NATO rise into a fractal frightened shell of what once was. Sweden and Finland realized that if Putin were able to achieve his vision, he would leave them alone at best, either under his shadow or in the worst case, involved in World War III, because, enough is one view of the map of Europe that clearly shows that Putin could not move to northern Europe without passing through the Nordic countries. If the war spread, he would, they would be in it, one way or another. Despite his boastful statements that he would avenge NATO states with impudence to support Ukraine's self-defense, Putin has not expanded the war. Meanwhile, NATO refused to become an active war party by avoiding the possibility of a direct military conflict between the armed nuclear superpowers, and when this war broke out, what the Swedish and Finnishs saw was that no state of the NATO alliance gave up. 5 obligations to attack one partner, attack both the entire alliance and all the participants of the alliance. The promise included Member States that don't even have an army, such as Iceland. Moreover, just as Trump claimed that the alliance would be credible, each nation must give its share honestly. We saw a change in the condition of Germany, in other states, so he was obviously right. After the attack on Ukraine, many nations agreed and strengthened their military obligations. By entering Sweden and Finland, NATO is an important strategic goal, i.e. their entry is important for the NATO alliance, and thus also for Croatia because it is part of the defence of northern Europe. Both nations have strong military capabilities and a decade of experience in working with NATO. Croatian sovereigns will certainly support their acceptance of the alliance and we believe that this is the only correct way to ensure the counterweight of Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121490	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121491	Thank you, Chairman, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The decision to join Sweden and Finland is a decision that, not only in the Green-Left bloc Club, but also in the party and some broader circle of people, we have seen in a really broad context. Why? For reasons that decision is not unequal to us, and it is not easy for us. Generally, the position of the green-left bloc that we have repeatedly expressed is the policy of peace and the policy of global peace-building. In that sense, strengthening arms and expanding military alliances is not the general policy we support. Certainly the policy of spreading nuclear weapons is also not the policy we support. However, the context in which we have found ourselves, and this is a serious security crisis at EU borders and the fact that Russia has carried out military aggression on Ukraine and that it continues with threats to other countries, open threats, at that time of escalating conflict, but also brutal violence in Ukraine, it is understandable that some countries want to strengthen their military-security policies and this is not, and that is what is important to us, only the decision of political elites in those countries, but also the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Sweden and Finland. In particular, here's what you mentioned, a public opinion on NATO's entry into Sweden and Finland literally turned 180. So before support for Sweden's entry, and similar in Finland, NATO was around 20%, over 60% of express opponents, and now it's completely the other way around. I had the opportunity to talk to people who make up the government in Finland and who are members of the Greens and really their policy of building peace is their policy of actually not spreading military alliances. And the policy of actually reducing weapons is equal to that of ours, and they literally told us when we talked to a colleague from Finland, she said, "If someone told me six months ago, seven months ago, that I would advocate Finland entering NATO," I would say, but that today we have to do it because we are directly at risk. This view that it is about the decision of the countries of origin, that it is about the decisions of its citizens and citizens who support this decision and that it was a key and key argument for us because it is a matter of self-determination of those countries and we believe that when it comes to us friendly states that such decisions should then be respected and respected by their citizens. Of course, the question of all questions to which there is certainly no unequivocal and accurate answer is whether this sudden and recent almost unimaginable expansion of NATO will contribute to the calming of the conflict or will contribute to the escalation of the conflict and that was our main concern? We do not think it is good to put ourselves in a situation where, due to the great border between NATO and Russia that is now spreading, there is a daily possibility of incidents, incidents that, when they are summed up in some dynamics, can lead to an escalating of conflict. However, there is no single answer and a simple answer to that question because it is of course also the question whether these incidents will happen there whether NATO is there or not. The fact that this security situation has changed so dramatically in such a short time does not give us the right to moralise the decision of our friendly countries, but gives us the obligation to look at absolutely all the arguments and listen to them and respect them. However, we want to make it clear and loud that these decisions must not be unconditional. Unfortunately, in the political arena, they were conditioned by unacceptable blackmails from NATO member Turkey towards Sweden and Finland for the extradition of terrorists, and we know that this epithet is coming to Turkey and I will tell you that I have had direct contact with people who have received asylum in Germany and in other EU member states of Kurdish origin, some Turkish origins that were political competitors, political competitors of Erdogan and who, due to their political action and activists, received a sticker of terrorists. The Member States of the European Union protected them. If they came on a trip to Croatia, then our police would arrest them and act on Interpol's request for extradition that Turkey would place on Interpol's site, although they were known to be unfounded. Fortunately, we managed to defend them before the courts of the Republic of Croatia against these accusations and return them to the countries of their asylum. That's what Turkey now conditions Sweden and Finland. However, Sweden and Finland have made it clear that political asylum as well as the issue of extradition is the issue of our judiciary. And what we hope for is that they will not give up on these high standards of rule of law that they have and the protection of human rights that their courts are truly implementing and that these courts will continue to stand at the level they have been at before in each of these individual cases. Otherwise, it would be a precedent that would seriously jeopardise the common values of all members and members of the European Union, all. They would have trampled on what was based on it. We would step on the basis of which we built this community and we want to build it in the future, without that foundation there is no European Union. Finally, we are aware that we are living in times of increased militarization of tension and escalation of conflict. At such times, decision makers tend to make more than usual irrational decisions just when cold heads should make decisions. We believe that it is the duty of all of us who have the opportunity to participate in making and making political decisions that even in these truly difficult times marked by fear, uncertainty sometimes and panic still retain our sanity and do not take the course of deepening and escalating violence. It's not easy. What's more, in human nature, is that out of fear and panic, man makes additional mistakes. But that's why it's up to us not to succumb to our current feelings and emotions, but to always look at three steps ahead, which is the move we have to make to achieve stability and peace in the fourth step. I also want to say that Finland's decision that there will be no nuclear weapons on their territory was also an important argument to us. But I want to say one more thing, the current constitution has led to the expansion of NATO. It has also led to Europe's security policy being further buried in dependence on the US military power. At the same time, while Europe led this policy of U.S. Armed Forces addiction, some countries also led a policy of dependence on Russian gas. This situation, this strategy that we're going to be dependent on these here and there on those is one big part of the problem and it can never happen again because it was a serious, serious mistake. And we need to take this opportunity to talk here and here in Parliament and in the European Parliament about what Europe is doing for its own safety, whether it will have its own strength and whether it will stop relying on the external factors that very often put it into jeopardy about what decisions it will make. European security policy must be a European security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121492	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121493	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to point out that I support the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO because I believe this will significantly contribute to the strength of the alliance and security of Europe at the time of the biggest security crisis in the last few decades. By expanding allied areas, sharing values also strengthens the security of the Republic of Croatia. It is also an important step towards further strengthening the transatlantic security space. Sweden and Finland, after signing the Protocol, can participate in NATO meetings, have greater access to intelligence, but will not be protected by a NATO defence clause that says an attack on an ally is an attack on everything, and that will be worth until the protocols are ratified. Croatia is among the first countries to ratify these protocols, I think it is worth mentioning. NATO's land border with Russia will be more than doubled when Finland and Sweden are admitted to the most powerful defence alliance in the world. NATO members are currently sharing with Russia a land border of 215km, which will increase to 2,000,600km. After Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February, Sweden and Finland parallelly announced their intention to give up their neutral status and become part of NATO. Sweden has not been part of any military alliance for more than 200 years, and has maintained neutrality even during World War II. On the other hand, Finland moved to neutrality after defeating the Soviet Union in World War II. However, the Russian invasion in Ukraine has shaken their busy positions and launched new discussions on future security policy. The membership of Sweden and Finland would mean, above all, that NATO will no longer be uncertain about how Sweden and Finland will act in the crisis, as it will no longer be neutral. This will, of course, increase security in the Baltic region. It will also facilitate the Baltic States' defence alliance because, for example, there will be no more questions as to whether a Swedish airspace can be used to send troops or supplies to the Baltic countries. And politically, I would say that this is also a first-class political issue because it somehow seems to me that the first message of entering those countries into NATO is right now political and directed towards Russia. And secondly, NATO is also about the actual military capabilities that Finland and Sweden bring with them. In fact, while everyone else in Europe, if we can say so, has been reducing their military capabilities since the end of the cold war, Finland and Sweden have built their military capacities which can certainly be a win for the alliance. NATO, on the other hand, did not build its positions in the east by treating Russia as a partner. But it's obviously now in the big phase of change. It must also be considered that Russia has warned if Finland and Sweden will join NATO to step up their forces in the Baltic. At this point, not only is Russia focused on Ukraine, but I would allow my layman's approach to make a very bad impression there. Thus, it could be concluded that Russia will not respond to the military force of Sweden and Finland at the moment. But what Russia is currently doing is cyber attacks and campaigning propaganda through spreading false news. What could also happen is that Western allies can deploy certain forces in the Baltic region while the accession process itself is going on. In order to send a political message, the UK has already signed an agreement to support Sweden if it is attacked. However, it is not excluded that other Western countries will follow its example by signing a similar agreement with both Scandinavian countries. However, regardless of the support of Great Britain and the United States, I would say that membership in NATO is Sweden and Finland's best protection against Russian threats. We in Croatia fully understand their interest. On the other hand, it should be added that they have a highly developed industry, technology, standards, well-organised army with strong Navys and their accession will certainly contribute to the security of the Trans-Atlantic space of Europe, which is why we are strengthening our own security, so I will support the validation of this Protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121494	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The Honorable representative of Brcic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, surely every NATO member is an important link in the chain and the stronger the link is, in general, NATO. And each member has its own speciality both the new members and Sweden and Finland certainly and their technological achievements to contribute to the defence power of NATO's alliance even more pronounced. I would also mention this, and we had this often especially if we were joint exercises at sea with NATO members, which would highlight the speciality of the Croatian winning army and the Croatian Army which received one additional value in the NATO system. And on this occasion, I would point out a constant investment in our army. Although we are a NATO member, we did not put in another plan to equip our own army, which we see is happening in continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121496	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121497	Thank you, colleague Brcic. So it is certainly necessary to always highlight the contribution of Croatian defenders to the creation of a modern state that is the predecessor of the Croatian armies as we now have which literally had to be built from the beginning, as well as to equip with the necessary equipment from the beginning. These investments are extremely important and therefore cannot support those debates that we have been able to witness especially here in the Croatian Parliament, which came from one discourse that investments in the military are too high, so this should be reduced. So there were even those attempts when, if you remember, they suggested an amendment to the budget that was just taken from the Ministry of Defence's portfolio and proposed for some other purposes. Our NATO membership is certainly a guarantee of security, and investment in the Croatian Army is also a contribution to this by supporting this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121498	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121499	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Petir, I am pleased that you have just made one distinction between the security issue and the political issue of these two ratifications of our friendly countries and that you have also mentioned their willingness. So I think that in accepting NATO alliances both Finland and Sweden there should be nothing disputed about the quality of the country, their organisation, but normal compatibility with the armed forces of all NATO member states and their military industry and their willingness to reserve and the armed forces themselves. But we need to point out this particular political part. We could not believe a few years ago that political unity and unity on the territory of the European continent would be necessary. We can be different but in some things we have to be unique, and it's stopping any form of aggression and it's together now... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121500	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121501	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. You are certainly and much more detailed than the rest of us as Head of NATO's delegation with all that is needed to bring individual NATO members in line with the conditions and requirements that exist when it comes to investment. You're right when you say that Finland and Sweden in that segment in the military segment come fully prepared, because they did build both states and their armies and their navy, investing in military industry and technology. And this political aspect must be in our mind even though it seems to me that somehow NATO has approached this whole area in a way that he believed that mankind will no longer experience such war earthquakes and thus is quite thin in the east. Because of this military action of Russia towards Ukraine, which is a threat to all of us, we must surely crush our forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121502	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121503	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Petir, of course, that we support the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO because this is how we increase security and the overall defence power of NATO, and I say the entire European Union. But whatever Article 5 is, The North Atlantic Agreement do you think that the Republic of Croatia should allocate the new situation a little more and the funds in the budget for the development of the Armed Forces or only material finance, rather than whether the time has come to try or start thinking about introducing a mandatory military deadline to enable young generations to defend themselves and the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121504	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121505	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. That must be one question ahead of us that we need to discuss seriously. What I might like to begin with is that all of our citizens and citizens who want to go through certain if I can say so by training, a course that would not take too long to gain some knowledge in a defensive sense and then use them if it is necessary to enable them to do so. I think it is now limited to young people up to 27 years old, and it is my impression that even these circumstances are in which we are, but the very interest of the people I'm talking to is also there for those who are above those 27 years old, so for those who were not obliged to go through a military term. Well also not only for men, but for women here I would personally like to pass such a one training.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121506	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121507	There's a lot of them that wouldn't go through military training. You wouldn't last military training there are a lot of them because there's an appeal to conscience, is there? [[/Intruder Petir: Wouldn't you pass?]] But in any case, every country had its own regimes that it was ashamed of. Croatia had NDH. Russia has Putin's regime. Putin's regime attacked Ukraine should be quite clear. Sweden and Finland, as his colleague Beljak spoke of, is the fact that she was not completely neutral. In fact, for a short time, 2 years in the Swedish regime or the delivery channels for Nazi Germany, which at the time was an aggressor to Russia. So, this is my replica neither Sweden nor Finland were to the end neutrally nor during World War II, and that is why Sweden is because... on the side of the Allies a plan was obtained by Marshall and received about 13 billion, the entire European Union and then 10 countries including Sweden. So neutrality is a very relative term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121508	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121509	Thank you, colleague Ostojić. I'd still start with that first, call of conscience. I am glad that you have mentioned this as a doctor because lately it has been the haranga of doctors because of the appeal of conscience which is actually a constitutional category, because the appeal of conscience is something defined by the Constitution, the International Conventions on Human Rights and cannot even be challenged during the war. So, I told my respective colleagues that the issue of compulsory military deadline is certainly a darkness that we can re-open, and I suggested something that is not mandatory but optional, and it is a kind of training that could last 2, 3 months where basic knowledge would be acquired for those citizens and citizens who would like to do so. I don't think that would be a waste, and it could just be useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121510	We're done with this. Since it's 1:00 p.m., we're now going to take a stand. We continue on the agenda, registered for individual debate, respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121512	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to individual debates and behind me are these two colleagues whom I will address, I hope that this one will accept my criticism and will change his view in this, in the very presentation of his views. We talked a lot, I'm glad we talked on behalf of the clubs in general, which the minister also gave one, one framework regarding these two proposals, the final drafts of the law and these two ratifications of Sweden and Finland. I will begin with a statement by an analyst that we can agree with, and says the first message of Sweden and Finland's entry into NATO is a political alliance and is aimed at Russia. Secondly, NATO is also concerned with the actual military capabilities brought by Finland and Sweden, while everyone else in Europe has in some way reduced their military capabilities since the end of the cold war, Finland and Sweden have built their military capacities which can be a major gain. I completely agree with that, and I think it's definitely time for us to open that debate, because the whole of Europe, including the NATO alliance, we often talked about it at the beginning and when it was that incident with the drone and at the beginning of the aggression itself, we talked a lot about NATO's readiness of alliances to these challenges. We know that Europe has been talking about the European defence forces at European level for the last 15 years, if not more, and it has been reducing its budgets, and it has been talking about the very defence forces at European level, and it is now somehow falling into another plan, and all of this is now proving to be a wrong direction and a wrong policy and that, in fact, the reduction of such budgets should not have happened at the levels of certain members. I think that's where we made the big step in the last six years. Since the time of Minister Krstic, and now Minister Banozic, and that we have been very much increasing the budget for the past few years, even so little visionary because we may not have predicted this word, but we wanted to be prepared for some extraordinary situation that is happening and which is unfortunately happening on European soil. We know that this ratification is, in fact, aimed in some way solely at the aggression of Russia in Ukraine, and we normally talked here and about certain fears and threats felt by both Finland and Sweden, but also a few other members of the NATO alliance, but also not members of the NATO alliance. It is important here to highlight this Baltic Sea and the Baltic Sea which has certainly been the cancer of the early NATO alliance, and now it is becoming a strategic area, this very airspace that is relatively inaccessible and much in one ungrateful area when we look only at the supply of these NATO alliances where we will now facilitate, facilitate our defence capacities access to it, access to it, that area. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we're already cooperating with our two friendly countries. I would just point out all the advantages that we have as a member of the NATO alliance, I will not only, I will not mention and we have often discussed here and discussed all the missions in which our armed forces participate and all the experiences that have contributed from what we later apply to both the Land Army and the Coast Guard and all the other aspects of the military. I will say here the position of the HS delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is that we will open up the issue, we have talked a lot about BiH, we will open up the issue of Kosovo on our North Atlantic path because I think it is our friendly country that definitely deserves the NATO Alliance's path and to start to work towards a partnership for peace as a first step and as something that will very much help develop their defence forces. Since my colleagues are behind me from the Workers' Front who are against it so far, I am also appealing to them, in particular it means well-meaningly I appeal to make one turn and to understand all the benefits for the Republic of Croatia, but also for the NATO alliance and the security of the European soil and to be in favour. We don't need to, we don't need to hate the Russians, they're very much our friends, we need to be rude to Russia's policy, we don't need to be like some people might be trying to be faithful to their mother Russia all the time, we need to defend Europe's interests, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121513	Time. We have replicas, the first respected Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts, here in previous replicas it has been stressed that it is important and important that just because of the borders on the sea of NATO pacts, as well as through the entry of Sweden and Finland, this border of security on both the mainland and the sea on Europe will be further established, and I would also mention as well as known within the Croatian Navy we have a coast guard, an organisation that has essentially police powers when it comes to the border at sea, and a significant part of their vessels are just coming from these countries, primarily from Finland, so there should be mention of military ships and the Helsinki class, we clearly propagate our production, but here it is known that they are technically quite potent. You also mentioned the missions of our soldiers around the world, I would point out with this military aspect that great importance attaches and learning the tradition of a certain space so... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121515	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121516	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Brcic for this replica. I couldn't agree more with you. It is the missions we carry out through both the UN and NATO, especially this last one in which the Croatian Navy participated, the Croatian Navy in the Mediterranean, that give immense experience and new lessons learned later on in the development of our Coast Guard. We know that we are now in the process and production and development of our ships. This is unfortunately due to the problem of certain smurfs, especially that mentioned in Split we have some problems with the delivery, but I believe this is definitely going to fix it. This is one opportunity for Croatia too, because the great emphasis will now be on the Baltic Sea right now at the establishment of this maritime border and the development of the protection of that area, and I think we need to jump in and take advantage of the opportunity after the land power, after the acquisition of fighter planes, so that we can certainly serve there and get what is needed for the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121517	The next replica honours Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bacic, the Republic of Croatia is the first to know what it means to be internationally unrecognized and in no alliance while the aggressor is at the door. I believe that now Sweden and Finland both feel threatened because they have a de facto enemy at their borders. That is why I am sure we should welcome the rapid accession and expansion of NATO's alliance because it is the only guarantee of security on European soil. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121520	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Baradić for the replica. Absolutely seen in some data that the minister himself and the land border of 1,215 km bound between NATO members and Russia will now increase to 2,600 km, which is a large area that will definitely need to be secured, which was a soft area of one cancer of the early NATO alliance that did not know what with it and how to defend not only the border but also the airspace and the sea and everything, the sea corridor and everything that goes with it. For this ratification, we definitely need to be open because we know what all Croatia has been going through in the 1990s, we know what membership in certain associations would mean to us, how much it would speed up development, not to mention how much it would reduce both war damage, human lives and everything we lost in the Homeland War and how much it would help us and how much I believe it would help our partner countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121521	The next replica is the respected representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121522	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, well, you've drawn an excellent line, asking a question that would justify why one of us would be against the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO? Namely, are these the countries with which we have unresolved questions? We don't. They're friendly countries. Why would they prevent me from entering NATO of their friendly countries? On the other hand, we are looking at the EU's strategic approach, of course NATO members, extending the borders of NATO alliances, increasing security for both Europe and the Republic of Croatia. So there is no single excessive reason why we would oppose countries that want to join NATO and thus increase the security of their people. In fact, here we should achieve absolute agreement in confirming ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121523	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121524	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Frankovic for this replica. That's why I appealed to my colleagues who are now speaking behind me and who were also against the very declaration. were restrained on a declaration about Ukraine that we were not able to justify the same, and when we remember what we were going through in the '90s and about our international recognition and certain requests for peace and we did not get an answer from the Western world and how much problems it caused us. We are definitely not aware, and we cannot be aware of why someone will be held back or against this. Since the 1st of April 2009 when we joined the NATO Alliance, before it was related to the Partnership for Peace, the Republic of Croatia has always been for enlargement. She was never against enlargement because she believes it is the only, only security for peace stability not elsewhere but right here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121525	The next replica is the respected representative of Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121526	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, you mentioned Kosovo. Now I'm going to ask you one question without taking anyone's side, so neither Serbia, Kosovo or Russia, Crimea. Did you know that Russia's President Putin repeatedly accused him of anxiety or occupation of Crimea called for equivalent on the other hand in the case of Kosovo? Do you know whether there is a difference between what was done in Kosovo and what the West did in Kosovo, so he separated a part of Serbia and what Putin did with Crimea in 2014 if I'm not mistaken. Is there any difference for you? So that's all I'm asking you to answer me and deny what I keep saying is that you're hypocritical and you have double criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121527	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121528	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague, Whitey, for this replica. I don't know. I still wonder what's the matter with you in this situation. When I see you as the Croatian peasant party I appreciate, which I appreciate because we know what contribution she made for the Republic of Croatia, unlike the Workers' Front, who didn't contribute to any, although he doesn't want this country, I just remember not Kosovo, but I remember when the patriarchs in Montenegro spoke, we have this video when he told Montenegrins that they must always be faithful to their mother Russia. And now I don't understand where you get this rhetoric and what it means to you in this pro-Russian sense that you're going against all of these clubs, against all of your colleagues, for what? I don't really believe you're doing business with the Russians or having something in your family, but I say you shouldn't hate the Russian people, that's our friendly people, but the triba clearly says not to this kind of policy, so don't be faithful to your mother Russia. Be faithful to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121529	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first to be respected is Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121530	238, insult of parliamentary deputies. And my colleague Bačić, I really don't understand how you can let yourself say that the Workers' Front didn't do anything for this country, you who represent the party, and you're an example of opportunism in politics that has done a lot in this country, but only bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121531	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121532	Art. 238, my colleague Bacic lies and twists my words. So I clearly at the beginning of the replica fenced myself to take any side, let alone the Russian side. You accuse me of being a rusophile, yes, it is, frankly, you didn't answer how you do equality, you put an equal sign between Crimea and Kosovo, answer me that question, very simply, you won't answer whether you don't know or you know but you're hypocritical if there's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121533	Okay, and you used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to call in an article. 238, but what I'm about to say is, I'm actually putting myself at risk and getting a warning, but I think it needs to be said. We are looking at the last days that in this assembly the level of our discourse falls to the bottom, we cannot accuse each other of being traitors and of not wanting Croatia. We all took an oath here, all of us, and whoever took the oath, we have to respect it as an intercessor, and then one tends to the other, and the discourse fails, let's not do that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121535	Time. Okay, and you used this as a form of replica, and then a reminder to you. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121536	Don't let God make anyone feel offended and that I have offended someone in some way, I'm just repeating the words and attitudes that colleagues represent here, and comparing HDZ and RF's contribution to Croatia is I don't know, I'm amazed, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know... Okay, the Communist Union created this state or HDZ with defenders and Franjo Tudjman, who? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121537	Please don't communicate with each other, and you, Mr. Bacic, are being warned. We have a replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121538	Dear colleague Bačić, I don't know the difference either. I have to admit this as well as you, but here's one, and here's a little bit of an answer to the question asked by my colleague, Beljak. Albania has not adopted or anecedated Kosovo, Russia has detected Crimea. Ukraine did not attack Crimea and drive out the Russians with Crimea and exiled them, so, as Serbia did with Kosovo when two million Albanians fled and died and who knows how many tens of thousands, and the Russians without cause called for some right to their historic visit, occupied and annexed, so the differences are very, very important. But on the other hand, I'll tell you this thing, here's your comment to my colleague Bacic. At one point we take sides, and we take it, we're the NATO Pact and the point as it is, it's ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121539	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121540	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Zekanovic, I am glad you responded to your colleagues about Kosovo. I will only add it here and agree that it is not, is not, is not the same thing and we must not accidentally look at it the same way because of our friendly relations, but also because of the contribution of the Albanian minority in Croatia and the Homeland War and vice versa to our contribution and our help to them in the war. What has happened there and how many people have moved out and how many people have died in the most painful, in the most painful and beastly way, it is only now being written and done perhaps certain documentation, so we may not be familiar with the situation in Kosovo itself, but I think in my Euro-Atlantic path, especially regarding the peace and NATO alliance that Kosovo requires, what Kosovo needs and that Kosovo will believe me as a brother country and in some way as their Big Brother, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121541	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121542	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I welcome both personally and most of us to join Sweden and Finland in NATO. Their entry will contribute to security in Europe and transatlantic space. The first message of the entry of Finland and Sweden, which is political and is aimed at Russia, is the second one about profit for NATO, and it is about the military capabilities of Sweden and Finland, given that they have continuously invested in their military capacities. We should not even mention the benefits of our country by joining NATO, it is a guarantee of course peace, but what I will ask you, and it is on the trail of these military capacities, how much Croatia invests in the military, is that enough and what else can we fix? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121543	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121544	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Maximchuk for asking. I have just noted in my own, in my individual exposure that for the past few years, we have been increasing considerably, increasing the Ministry of Defence's budget and investing heavily in HV, especially looking at the period from about 10 years ago when the material resources were removed, when it was not working on the contribution and development of the Croatian soldier himself and its readiness, I think we are now very well on track, behind us several major acquisitions, I believe that we will continue with this, especially after the aircraft that we will go to the purchase of military ships and that we will very much strengthen the coast guard itself. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, we've been working closely with them, already getting some equipment, for many years now, so this is just a benefit for us and for them as to their NATO entry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121545	The individual debate of the respected Katarina Peovic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121546	First of all, to say that we will be against receiving Sweden and Finland into NATO not because of any opposition to these countries, nor because of Milanovic's attitude towards the issue related to BiH, but because of our attitude and consistent relationship to the NATO alliance. And I am extremely glad that our colleagues from the HSS have joined us here in this attitude. So we are at the moment of history in which once a neutral Sweden agrees with Turkey's blackmail that has conditioned Sweden's admission to NATO by persecuting Kurdish activists who will now be called terrorists. It is about members of groups who heroically resisted a much greater number of Isil's terrorist army, which Turkey bombed while fighting Isil. And these Kurds, members of the PPK of the Kurdistan Workers' Party fighting for Kurdish law, Kurdish rights in Turkey will now be persecuted as terrorists in Sweden. So let's think about how we met at the moment of history where something like this is possible, right? We should ask ourselves how we got to this point when supposedly neutral, liberal countries were persecuting activists who were protecting them as freedom fighters until yesterday. Croatia's position in NATO is a typical, autocolonial, servant position. We entered that alliance in 2009 without a referendum on the grounds that we would be more sure that our drones would now fall in Zagreb at a moment of increased NATO's vigilance. We're very awake, we're very awake. There is nothing, there is no point in saying that Croatia is equal at this joint table despite the phrases we have heard here from the Minister of Security's umbrella, co-operation. NATO is primarily the military exposition of the U.S. through which it is conducted, implemented and implemented geostrategic, geopolitical and economic interests mostly in Washington. Let's remember Iraq in 2003. Let's remember Libya in 2011. It is estimated that more than 600,000 people died after NATO's aggression in Libya in 2011, and the country is in chaos. Let's remember Afghanistan, for 17 years we participated in this peace mission. How did she end up? By returning to the Taliban regime, the evicted and the total devastation of the country. The defeat of American imperialism in the Middle East in the nearly 20-year war against terrorism so-called people has brought only suffering. The workers' front has unequivocally condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine, we are against any aggression, squabbling and calling for wars. While Russian aggression and assault can't be an excuse because it's an answer that isn't proportionate to what led to it. We can't, and we shouldn't exculpate American and NATO expansionist politics. The war in Ukraine is the culmination of America and NATO's decades and years of politics. Putin was the result of the SAA's policy in the '90s, which first made Russia an American banana state where Americans preferred to place presidents, conduct a doctrine of shock and privatisation in order to actually lead to the emergence of Putin and the cooling of relations between Russia and the West. In 2014, the United States and the West actively supported and orchestrated a coup in which a corrupt but legally elected president was forced out of power in the elections. Not to mention the American economic interests related to energy and disruption means the finished meaning of North Stream 2. Although the Russian invasion of Ukraine cannot be justified, it does not mean that the United States and NATO can be excluded from criticism. We were restrained about the declaration of Ukraine due to the complete amnesty of US foreign policy, we were against sending the Croatian army to NATO on a military mission to Hungary and we will be against receiving Finland and Sweden into NATO alliance. The Workers' Front advocates internationalist, progressive policy of linking different countries on the basis of solidarity and common interests by refusing to do so Undermining interests and requirements [[Intruder: Time.]] Powerful forces. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121547	We have a few replicas. The first is the esteemed Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121548	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, I actually understand your views, you're against NATO and that's legitimate, your full right of course. However, if the two countries of Sweden and Finland want to join NATO, so they want it for their safety, their foreign policy objectives etc., etc., that is their right as well. Why would they want to take that right away from me for some reason? Why if they want to? So the people who live in those countries they want to. I repeat, I understand your position on NATO, on international relations etc., etc., but where does the right for us to prevent someone from something they think is good for them, that it's good for the people of those countries. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121549	First of all, we should say that in Sweden and Finland until recently we had an extremely high percentage of people who were against the NATO alliance. So we have to ask ourselves why we came at this point when a liberal Sweden means it's a situation to prosecute activists who are on the sidelines of the Kurdish Workers' Party. Our demand to vote, or our imperative to vote against, is solely about our attitude towards NATO. And we believe that the expansion of NATO alliance will not lead to greater peace, will not lead to greater security, and above all it will not lead to greater security for Europe or for ourselves and we need to be consistent and I really think this morning is actually spoken of in a completely unrealistic and uncritical way about one problem. I'm glad that at least you see some aspects and dimensions means this problem, it's not a single problem, it's not even a simple problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121550	Next replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Peovic, you are many times in this House or a voice of criticism from NATO and I thank you for that. I think the situation in which it is trying very unilaterally to demonstrate the work of international organisations, and so NATO is certainly not good for democracy. I may disagree with some of the things you said, in the end, I'll vote differently and my position is different from the one you argued, but I think it's very good to have a voice like yours and the arguments you made heard and I don't think that's why anyone should call you a traitor. And in defense of that, I will stop every time. What I'm interested in, so your argument is about deterrence. So NATO based its dissuasion and this policy has worked quite well in the last 80 years. So, if Sweden and Finland That's what they want, what would your answer be? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121552	Answer. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121553	Thank you first for that attitude because I really think that here is the role of the chairman, that if one of the representatives of another representative calls the enemy of the people, that actually reacts and I don't think there's any point in democracy in this House if we allow it, right? I mean, we're braver, sometimes we're a little bit hard on each other, and I got nothing against it. But that kind of attitude isn't, it's not correct, really, I agree with you. As for the position of Finland and Sweden, I will say again, so as you know, there was very great support for these, most, social majority in those countries against NATO, and much of it was justified and actually based on the need for neutrality, and I understand that people are now scared, but we need to see where the gene of this fear comes from and of course they're neither guilty nor us, but we're solving a problem that we haven't created.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121554	Time. Next replica, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121555	Thank you very much. My colleague Peovic, I'll just correct you. You said that we from the HSS accepted your idea against NATO. We're not, we're not against NATO, we're against further expansion of NATO, and that's how to stop the escalating of the conflict because everything that's going on in the world right now is going towards an escalating conflict. I don't need to remind you that this escalation of conflict could mean World War III and that this could mean a return to the Stone Age. We are not against NATO alliances in terms of an alliance that would be a defensive shield against someone, but we are against spreading NATO alliances, especially towards states that, you said, until some time ago have been extremely against it, and now suddenly they have become for, which is very, very questionable to me because I have not seen a referendum anywhere, nor have I seen a public opinion survey that would confirm such a drastic change of mood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121556	Yeah, first of all, I apologize to my colleague, Beljak, for generalizing, I haven't had time to discuss some of the distinctions that we have in this matter. But what I'm very pleased about, and it's actually easier to have someone standing for you, at least when, I mean, you have an answer that neither the middle-aged one, so when you're not the only red dot in that House, something does mean there's some other dimension of that problem, that there's the complexity of that problem, and the one brain that's really got hold of this House of 2 months isn't dangerous this year. So it's also dangerous for democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121557	And the last replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121558	Dear colleague Peovic. I'll agree with you on one thing, which is that it's not right what the Turks did to the Kurds in Sweden. So, which, you called them activists, some call terrorists, I think it's blackmail and it's not good. Here, I'll agree with you there, but that's how it is. And unlike you, I accept a NATO pact regardless of the shortcomings, mana, we're NATO Park and I wouldn't look deeper at it, at least at this level, but here at this level, I'm going to ask you a question, I'm going to say, you're even credible, you're in your attitudes, unlike many, who may think like you, but they don't want to say it. Is it your opinion that there might be a solution for you then to disband the NATO alliance? Would that be a solution? And then leave only Russia and China as the other two blocks that will then be militaryly run by the world or dominate?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121559	Well, thank you for that question. Actually, it's a very important question. We're in the middle of a fire and now what? How are you gonna handle it now, is that, that's a short question? But really neglecting the genealogy of this conflict and what is extremely dangerous, what we in this Declaration have brought as a common position of Parliament that aggression has been caused by nothing, means exculpatory fully American and NATO foreign policy, US foreign policy and NATO politics, the American imperialism that I have indicated here somewhere in several wars where America has completely unnecessarily intervened and actually brought a number of problems, which is actually related to Russia itself, which is indeed the result of the American post-cold war policy that comes today in the form of Putin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121560	Next is the individual debate of the respected Cressa Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121561	Thank you very much, Vice President. There we are, we've come to this, and I've suspected that anyone who has a different opinion, few of us, but who has us, will be declared a pathologist, a Russianophile, a traitor, that's what you have against NATO, etc., etc. I think it's crazy in parliamentary democracy. I'm going to take the chance instead of Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic responded to Hrvoje Zekanovic who told him what the alternative was. Yeah, that's a good question. That's a good question. What's an alternative to NATO's alliance? The alternative to me is, in my opinion, the European Union, the European Defence Alliance, because today NATO is an American alliance, and we are pawns and I will be open, so let the CIA kill me and anyone else. In Ukraine, America is at war against Russia until the last Ukrainian, and I will go a step further, in Ukraine, fighting America against Russia to the last euro of the EU and across Europe. Both Finland and Sweden enter the story under certain pressure settle down as you are asked of us or you are for or you are a Putinophil for the Russians. I'm not Putinofil, I'm not for the Russians, if I have to choose where I'm going to live or where my children will live, it'll always be in the west rather than in the east, but some things need to be made clear, not that that's why anyone, Mrs. Peovic, me or anyone else. So, we've got a rough winter ahead of us, we've got a crisis ahead of us, we've got inflation ahead of us. I'm asking the question, which of these things, and always since the war, someone's benefiting, is benefiting? Look at the US dollar course today or a month or three months ago, look and you'll see. Whoever sells to who energy and at what price, which is why they insisted on stopping the South Stream from which Croatia would benefit, is now blocking the North Stream, where gas and oil will come from, at which price, how this will be reflected, and yet we in Croatia will survive, we are used to crises, what will be in Germany, which will be in France, so my people are waiting for disaster, total disaster, waiting for us in the streets across Europe, not America, but Europe. So it's something that's being prepared and everybody knows. I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that all of us as little ducks are repeating what the American imperialists say, nothing else, so the war between American and Russian imperialism, Russia is the same imperialist force that Putin is crying for the great USSR, etc., this is ours, this is theirs as space, Ukraine we don't give there, the same thing with Baltica, the same thing with some other states, so the war between the two imperialisms, and I don't honestly care, I regret it, and again let them attack me as much as they want and whoever will, I regret the times when Croatia was part of a country that had enough strength and enough courage to say no to the West and the East, thank you beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121562	We have several replicas, the first respected Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121563	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Beljak yes, I fully agree with you, the war in Ukraine is so-called. The proxy war, it's absolutely clear to anyone who looks at it, fighting two global imperialist systems, that's clear. Whether NATO will really be able to play its role properly or perhaps remind all of us here, including the Croatian public on November 8, 1991, few people will remember that date, 10 days before the fall of the Vukovar NATO brings so-called. A Roman declaration saying it simply does not want to look at the war conflicts in the area of the former Yugoslavia, says it is an internal matter of these countries and is being built up in any way clearly and precisely by an international document, the Roman Declaration of the North Atlantic Treaty of any kind, we can say, of any assistance to Croatia that, at that time, is cramping under Serbian aggression, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121564	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121565	In 238, a respected colleague of Beljak, so I can even say that I saw you in your speech and some kind of heart, but I think that you're a little bit, a little bit of that end you didn't need, here's the most honest thing, I think you've crossed some line here, here's the thing in a quiet way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121566	Okay, you used this as a replica, you get a warning. We have a replica. Yes, a reply to the replica, please. [[Clip intrusion: Replication response]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121567	You didn't ask me the question until the end, but I guess, yes, 8.11.91. Right? 8.11.91. There was still the possibility that a third party might be involved in the war in Yugoslavia. You know Veljko Kadjevic had very good connections with the Soviet General Staff or later Russia, nuclear forces. So then they were very pragmatic, they let us be slaughtered by Serbs etc., etc., we were recognised by America two months after the EU, I'm talking about this America, and the war stopped only when it was in their interest in late '95. With the fact that they stopped things from happening until the end that the Serb aggressor was fighting to its feet, they said no, stop, enough, we have to balance, we have to leave the balance, and that balance has been going on for 30 years. and threatens to escalate tomorrow with some new war in BiH and in all this space, it's American politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121568	The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121569	I like the end of your speech the most, and I'll add that, we used to be unclassified, and now we're at war for other people's interests and suggestions would be to make a step forward, to be brave, and not to be autonomous, not adventurous, and what that would mean, and I didn't say in my speech, instead of militarization, we should advocate neutrality, end of NATO expansion, back to the CFE Charter (The Conventional Armend Force in Europe CFE Treaty) 1990 and the ABM Charter (Anti-Balistic Missile Treaty) of '72. Between the United States and Russia, as well as NEW START (New Strategic Arms Reductions Treaty) Charter between the United States and Russia 2011. If it were our policy, if Croatia showed at least a little autonomy in politics, I would clap to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121570	Thank you, colleague Peovic. I'm gonna get up there. I didn't say that by accident. I'd really be proud. He would be proud if the Italian fishermen did not come up to 10 miles in the Croatian area, and if they didn't care what would happen because there are none to confiscate them, I would be proud to keep all Croatian banks and be in our possession, he would be proud to have energy resources, especially in our possession today, and not that we have to depend on others and he would be proud of much more to mark the sovereignty of any state, and today he is not and his colleague, Peovic, is absolutely right and you are all aware of this, Croatia does not have his own sovereignty. We can't even say anything else so we're not accused of being Russian, we're pathetic, but we're a colony that listens, just like those ducks, little birds, like, ducks, listening to what the big boss tells us. Shut up, put your head down and don't answer your phone. Otherwise you'll see. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121571	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121572	So you're scared, Art. 238, insult. So you're constantly barking about insulting and now you're insulting yourself. I don't have anything against you, though, you're nice to me, so the late Workers are turning in their graves when they hear you support the position of the Workers' Front. One big Croatian peasant party. Son, be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121573	... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121574	My friend Bačić, I don't understand first... Since you,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what you ended up like in Parliament, I don't understand you at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you can't speak at all. [[Intruder: Please, please, you have no word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121575	You don't have a word, Mr. Whitey, you don't have a word. You don't, this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Katarina Peovic has a word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121576	238, that means insulting a parliamentary representative. Again I think we should react in each, so in every speech when someone offends someone, you should certainly as chairman react, but fellow Bačić, I think you're completely wrong. So the working-rural style is what this Parliament and you would be proud of if you had autonomy, and if you weren't a universal example of political opportunism you should actually be proud of and boasting about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121577	This was the same replica as Mr. Bačić. I forgot to say, Mr. Bacic, you've been warned, and you've been given the same warning as your colleagues. Mr. Bacic, that would be your third.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121578	I'll take my chances, dear Vice President. I, I would agree with you colleagues, if you had protected me from insulting your colleague from the bench, and that would have been correct, and if you'd raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure to him, I would have been quieter, not a river of roar. [[Intruder: All right, take your chances, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ante Bačić.]] And as for some universality, the mainstream, and I don't know what, so I'm not advocating for an international like you. Speaking of universality, let's all fraternize and unity and such nonsense. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121579	Okay. Mr. Bačić, it was a replica to a colleague, so you're getting a warning, that's your third warning. You're losing your right to debate until the end of today's session. Now we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121580	Thank you very much, Vice President. 238. It seems to me that it was an insult because I didn't understand Mr. Bačić half, and here I really didn't understand him half, but I know I heard something about him calling Radic. Don't talk to me about Radic, please. Radic was a panslavist. Radic spoke to Russia's mother, Radic was all that you had no idea he was because you had no idea about it. And don't just talk about Radic, and those insults, I haven't even heard them, so that cat about the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121581	Mr. Beljak, it's the same to you as the third warning, so you lose your right to debate until the end of the session. ... Third, third. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're losing your right. ... So the individual debate next is the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: How is it going to replicate now?]] Incomprehensible... so just a little bit, I can give my opinion about the individual... [[Intruder: Excuse me, but I had a replica on his exposure, but regardless...]] You can't, and you can't, because he's gone. And you can't answer [[Intruder: Well, whatever he doesn't have a replica, I have a replica on his exposure.]] Gary Cappelli [[A little bit, but...]] Here you go. Sir. Sir, please sit down. [[Wait a minute, please.]] Here's a seat. [[I know, but please explain to me, I had a replica on his exposure.]] You're getting a warning. [[Intruder: Regardless of its replica, the reply to the replica.]] Individual debate, Gary Cappelly, come in. And I'm sorry, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just hold on a second. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121582	Thank you. Dear Chairman, please explain to me, I'm new to the Parliament, I'm not really, I may not know all the rules, but I've had a replica of Mr. Whiteman's individual exposure. I have the right to that replica, no matter what he can't answer me, I might even prefer it so I can push him a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121583	And what would be the purpose of the replica if it couldn't be answered? But you have the right to appeal, make a complaint to the Constitutional Committee, the Rules of Procedure, make a complaint if I was wrong. [[Well, I do.]] And you're winning now, please. [[No, no, I realize he can't replicate to me.]] Please, you're getting a second warning now. And because you have abused the Rules of Procedure for something that is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: And why?]] [[/Intruder: For what?]] And if you, you think you're right, that I took away your word unjustly, you have the right to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and they will sanction me. [[/Intruder: Why? He didn't know.]] Here's Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121584	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The organization of the North Atlantic Treaty is therefore an alliance of 30 countries of Europe and North America, as we know, from '49. Mr. NATO's primary mission is to preserve peace and security, regardless of today's controversy. NATO preserves our common values, democracy, individual freedom, the rule of law and a peaceful solution to the conflict and promotes these values across the Euro-Atlantic area. NATO is not only a military organisation that we see more and more today as a military organisation, however, it is a community of democratic values that the nations decide on, but it is also a community that is willing to defend those values if necessary. Therefore, any future effort aimed at building stable and sustainable public support to NATO must necessarily take into account 3 important arguments contributing to the overall support of the transatlantic community. The first is the fundamental purpose is protection, not only of all those countries and gathered in such a community, but also of protecting all those values and principles on which the entity is mentioned in general rest, starting from individuals, citizens, states and territories to the security and stability of systems and entire economies, which I have already mentioned several times today, we have talked a little more and more about defence and security, but it is also about the economy. This community of values today is ahead of a new one you would dare to say to the greatest challenges ever. We are witnessing the most severe violation of the international security structure that was established after World War II, as well as the economic crisis resulting from Russia's military aggression on Ukraine. Since its entry into NATO membership on 1 April 2009, Croatia has proved to be a reliable and committed member of the alliance on several occasions. We are one of the few countries that had a hard war experience during the Homeland War, and would especially thank our Croatian defenders on this occasion, because without them today we would not be in the Croatian Parliament. Today, where we decide as a full legal actor and ally in the accession of other countries to the North Atlantic Alliance, and we act continuously as one of the first Member States of the alliance. Croatia is now actively participating in discussions among NATO-based allies in Brussels as well as in any other decisions that Member States are making there by consensus and we are making a direct contribution to NATO-led activities. So, I stress by consensus. As a full member of Croatia within NATO, we promote our own views, foreign policy priorities and national interests, and we actively participate in promoting stability and peace in our immediate neighbourhood, the neighbourhood in Europe and the world. Continuing NATO enlargement is of paramount importance for the long-term stabilisation of Southeast Europe and the entire European continent. That is why the Republic of Croatia strongly supports the further expansion of NATO, thus expressing both its strength and its own security. In this regard, the Republic of Croatia as the leader of the policy of extending the alliance between the first countries that ratified the protocols just joining Montenegro and Northern Macedonia, which directly contributed to strengthening the security and stability of the very Southeast Europe. With regard to the expansion of NATO alliances to the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, it is enough to say that these countries share our values, have highly developed industries, technologies, standards, strong and well-organised armed forces, and their accession will greatly contribute to the security and strengthening of the military preparedness of the alliance. We must be aware that the crisis carries its influences on many aspects of the world's security. We must be aware that the global and security landscape is constantly changing. So Croatia supports Finland and Sweden's ambition to join NATO. The invasion has changed international relations and security threats on the European continent. Therefore, I am sure that by a large majority of votes we will confirm the wish, the wish of the two countries, so that they themselves have expressed to enter the NATO alliance as soon as possible, which is in these perhaps a year. By then, NATO's largest countries will have a strong guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121585	Following are several replicas, Ankica Zmaic is truly respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121586	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cappelli, the fact is that every NATO member is a very important link in the chain and that everyone is welcome, especially these two advanced and developed countries that have high standards, developed industry and technology, a well-organised army, and we are aware that by expanding these two countries, we will further strengthen the values and democracy and freedom. Well, here we are the Croatian member state of NATO for 13 years, and we certainly have that membership justified, so you can explain the justification of our membership and what it means and what it means for Sweden and Finland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121587	Thank you very much, sorry, thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished fellow MPs, in any case if we look at the way I respect each other today, it turns out that our defenders were also not supposed to do what they did because some discussions went in this direction that we heard that it was better that Yugoslavia stayed as far as I understood in one conversation, if I didn't get it well then tell me that I was wrong, but I don't think I was wrong, so it turns out that they were the defenders who died, who died, families all of which we don't speak now in details about everything, we all know that we lost time on the battlefield and that we didn't need that Croatia, but that we should have stayed in the part of Yugoslavia. We are what politics was then and Dr. Franjo Tudjman achieved the goal and the last thing that remains is important, important that in the next 2 to 3 years we will enter the OECD, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121588	The next replica honours Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121589	Thank you, Vice President. You said in your statement that NATO is a fresh 30 countries of Europe and North America and that it is a basic task to safeguard peace and security through the political and military channels of the Member States. The RS has been a NATO member since 2009 unlike Sweden and Finland who have not, but have been our Russian invasion in a changed security environment, and therefore we are talking today about the accession process of the two NATO alliances. The invasion of Russia entered in six months, it is not expected to end so quickly, and what can the Republic of Finland and Sweden expect during this one transitional period until they become full members of NATO? Has the international community shown any intention of helping them during this transitional period in the event of an invasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121590	Well, thank you very much Vice President, so there's a very interesting one thing to normally take during this transitional period that will be somewhere between 4 and, months to 12 months they wanted to sort of secure it. They have been given full bilateral security of 5 countries so far if I am not mistaken and among the strongest, so from North America, the United States, Great Britain, Poland, Germany and I think another country will be very sure to provide them, and other countries will, of course, join it, but these 5 immediately expressed their wish the moment the negotiations to join NATO came that they would ensure that they were attacked. However, one piece of information that Finland may be one of the best-prepared countries, so much for its neutrality. She was preparing herself in the long run because of the fear of Russia's attacks and today she's spending about $6 billion on, therefore, defending herself against many others. countries. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121591	Next replica, the esteemed Nikola Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121592	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Cappelli, as you yourself have said, the North Atlantic Alliance or NATO's shortcuts, which was founded after World War II as a defence alliance for long-term peace, has just been given this, stronger power to make this peace stronger and that all together can prevent certain war conflicts that we unfortunately witness today in Europe as well. On the trail of what you last said, perhaps continue to be heard by our citizens except that they know Finland and Sweden will become, so Finland is a country where a military deadline is required from 18 to 60 years old, where women can go voluntarily. Finland, which can mobilise 280,000 people within a very short period of time, has a reserve of 900,000 military capable people, although it numbers only 5 million people. So 96% of the population is militaryly trained and certainly this will contribute not only to the defence but also to NATO's future strength.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121593	Thank you very much for asking, so one of the data is, say, buying another 64 F35 planes, I think so much, and so far they've had a respectable technique and technology of 100 battle tanks, 107 planes, 19 helicopters, 613 armored transporters, etc., so much for their desire for neutrality that they're not armed, and they're getting ready not to say for decades, decades of defense just from Russia that they expected to one day come in view of the history they have with Russia, given Russia's incursion to the Finnish territory, and what is very important that their neutrality was quite prepared for war with Russia. This only speeded up what they wanted, making sure that with 40% support they came to 70% and some percent support for joining the NATO alliance. It's their wish why we don't let them. Let's tell them we don't want anything like that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121594	Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have well established all the reasons that have been stated through this Charter of Accession of Finland and the Swedish North Atlantic Alliance. An alliance that protects security and stability. He's a military political alliance, but he defends democracy, promotes the economy, and we can only say after we've heard of Finland, Sweden has a professional army of 30,000 soldiers at 10,000, 10 million and 300 inhabitants. There are 34,500 reservers, military deadline was lifted in 2010, but 200 vessels, 240 aircraft, 270 pieces of artillery pipes, 120 tanks and more than 2,700 armored vehicles. Sweden's army continues to be equipped and modernised equally fearing Russia's invasion of Their country, so I think it's confirmation. [[Intruder: Time.]] This law is welcome. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121596	Answer, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121597	So here's what you said the data itself, I would add to that data that the separation of Sweden which is also called neutral is 7.2 billion dollars a year. So they're in that figure that was planned through the NATO alliance, through members and members of the NATO alliance. So 7.2 billion with all that they have that you've mentioned, what they've already got from guns plus they still stand out 7.2 billion dollars a year. I would now say the same question, and imagine if we hadn't all insisted at the end of the desire and the very wish of the people of Montenegro who wanted to join NATO alliance you would have in the Gulf of Montenegro today you might have Russian ships, under Russian flag. So you'd ask how we'd feel in that neighboring neighborhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121598	Next replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121599	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cappelly, we've already had a series of debates on the Committee on Foreign Policy. You know about my position on this matter. But at the plenary session, we could hear a variety of attitudes some of which were critical of NATO, according to NATO's concept. I'm wondering if you can single out one, two, three as many criticisms as you've heard in a plenary debate that you might call a thorough criticism of NATO. So, regardless of what position you will take both as a club and as a representative, can you single out some of the criticisms that you have heard and which you consider to be justified and justified and simply have to be part of the equation when considering politics towards NATO and NATO at all as an alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121600	Well, look, maybe I mentioned it more than once today if someone followed the economy. So, protecting the economy. In my discussions, I have said many times how important the Bospor Dardanelle passage is, for example, Turkey is there because it is also very important for the economy because Turkey itself has offered itself as a NATO member of the alliance to go to negotiations with Russia in the sense that ships that will go from Odessa and that part will be missed, so that there could not be a crisis that could be three times more crisis than this one, and that is that from that pool if we can say North Africa because of the food shortages of cereals, especially coming from Ukraine, which could go through the ship through Bospor and Dardanelle and get to the goal, then in Africa, to reduce the pressure of refugees towards Europe. So it wasn't a criticism, but that's one part that I think economically should work on right now, on that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121601	The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121602	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Cappelli, Croatia is for joining and expanding the NATO alliance of course. The entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO strengthens security, and as you yourself said in your debate, Croatia has been a dedicated NATO member since 2009. With one hard experience, an experience from the Homeland War, it is now, it is now making stability in the neighborhood, but with that security part with the accession of these two countries, you have looked back at that economic one, so here I would ask you once again to tell us the advantages with those security and the economic entry of these two countries into NATO alliances.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121603	Well, at the meetings of the NATO Alliance, and even at the last meeting, it was not only debated the situation and Ukraine exactly looked at the war in Ukraine through the defence part, security, etc., but it was just debated at NATO alliance meetings and, even when the strategic compass was discussed, it was not only about the defence part, but it was about the economic part that just now I mentioned my colleague Glasevic that began to see how important this corridor is and how to create conditions, how energy, but especially food, is constantly talking about energy, gas, electricity, etc., and perhaps less talk about something that might come, which is the lack of a certain type of grain, corn, oil rape, etc., which covers the most important part. We let alone Croatia, which in some ways could be able to cope, but because of this lack, we could come to a large part of the refugees, who, exiles, could come from North Africa, which is precisely to prevent NATO from doing so, that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121604	Time, time. Next replica, respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121605	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here is anyone who says in this assembly that suffers for the past state of insult and demeans Croatian defenders, and in a special way those who have given their lives for this country, means in that country where we are not free we have received our country, a democratic state, but unfortunately there are those who are still crying and suffering for what most Croats have never accepted. As far as NATO's alliance is concerned, it's an open alliance and anyone who wants to join the alliance can join. I think Sweden and Finland with their democracy and with their wealth that they can actually bring to NATO an additional value not only through weapons, not only through money, but through the democracy they have in their own countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121606	Of course, but the geopolitical part is important and one note is, let's say, by entering Finland into NATO alliance, along the border of Finland practically passes the main traffic of the railway and so on and trucking if we can say the traffic that Russia from St. Petersburg is going up to Murmanska, which is about 750 km and which is the corridor for the weapons of ships and submarines that are in that part of the sea above. On the other hand, by entering Sweden and Finland, we are closing the Baltic Sea, becoming the Baltic lake of NATO's alliance if we can say so, so we are ensuring that part. On the other hand, we have ourselves, we are secure to Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, I say as I said before, today we would have Russian ships in the Gulf of Montenegro if it weren't for the NATO alliance. These are realities that we need to look at and feel much safer both in economic and security terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121607	The next replica honours Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's actually my replica has already been answered several times, but I still think it should happen again. Today, especially from our distinguished colleague Bartulice, we heard on several occasions, so it is worth repeating why Croatia did not do something and took advantage of the moment 2017. when Montenegro entered NATO and why didn't we take advantage of that opportunity, so please tell us then, but how much is the difference between Turkey and Sweden and Finland, which is Turkey here because they always as an argument that Turkey was effective and here conditioned, but is the same position of Turkey and Finland and Sweden and Croatia one that is there, who would now be at the Otrant Gate and who would defend the Otrant Gate, would they be there, would there be now Russian ships somehow or would be quite open to Russian ships?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121609	Thank you very much. Well, I just started by saying how important this, this new architecture, which is very important to one double insurance on the part where we haven't had it so far, is in the Baltic part where double borders are being secured, I say as I said before, and we have the biggest lobbyist on joining NATO alliance, it's just President Putin, which more pressures more countries feel insecure and enters NATO alliance. Not to mention what would happen to us now and where we would be today and what might already be under our uniforms if Montenegro were neutral under quotes like Sweden and Finland so far. It would happen to us that this would be the most important port of the Russian Federation, and it is very clear, and this, this architecture has come to an understanding and acceptance much earlier and therefore a step ahead of any participation and the Republic of Croatia because it understands what it means to border Montenegro in a neutral manner under quotes. Russian or the way the Western world thinks it is, after all, democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121610	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121611	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, The very fact that the Croatian Parliament is one of the first parliaments in the EU to decide on the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO states in itself how crucial Croatian and diplomacy is, of course, foreign policy and government responsibility. But I'm gonna go back to the beginning of that presentation of yours. There have been all kinds of debates here, but there have been some debates here in HS of individuals who have spoken really brought us back at some time that I believe that no Croats would ever want to come back again, but there is a whole lot of evidence that some former state, the former Yugoslavia, was better than membership in the EU, the NATO Alliance and all of these associations that Croatia has made a much better country than it was until the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121612	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121613	Every debate in this sense ends the moment we know that someone fought for this country, that someone gave their life, their most important, their families that are gone, today that we don't know where they are. So around it at all, I think it offends us, not all of us here, but all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who were on the first line. Therefore, I think it would be too much to mention some non-classified etc., etc., today we are at the table among the strongest countries and we have the right to vote because no one can enter unless everyone else decides and gives their green light. So by consensus, so this small Croatia with 4 million inhabitants must raise their hands and say yes, and we agree because otherwise these countries will not enter. It's important to be at that table, where it's being decided today, not being on the margins.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121614	Next is the individual debate of the esteemed Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121615	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. So here we can only express our satisfaction today, and this one, support and support the entry of the Kingdom of Sweden and Finland into NATO, given that they will significantly strengthen, significantly give strength, the additional strength of NATO alliances, and thus increase overall security in Europe, in the EU. The practical formal entry of Sweden and Finland has passed, i.e. it flows relatively fast, relatively easy and simple, or at least it seems to us, but it is no wonder that these countries have practically developed their policy for many years, their armed forces in a way and in accordance with NATO standards, they have developed standard operating procedures, NATO tactics, etc. Through various exercises, joint missions with NATO forces around the world, and normally that only their accession or their expressed desire to join NATO goes relatively easily and without major problems. When it comes to joining NATO in 2019, normally there were much more difficulties, that it required much more and more time and effort, etc., given the circumstances that were then and the Republic of Croatia, or the armed forces that had grown up in the Homeland War and which, above all, had the first most important task, to prevent aggression or to defend the Republic of Croatia, then set free and create conditions for joining NATO. That's all I'm gonna mention and that's really the fact that we're already back then, in '91. Mr., I remember General Karl Korinsek, he was then commander of the Operational Zone Osijek who had already said that it would be very good for the Republic of Croatia or the Armed Forces to join NATO as soon as possible and we were already several years later, already there in '94, '93, 4th, etc., started training primarily with the command of the Guard brigades then with the help of the US MPRI teams, training our officers, command structures, adoption of NATO standards, NATO procedures, above all through the decision-making process through adoption, I say, common standards of operational procedures and the possibility, not only to carry out our own operational tasks but also to participate with the Allied Forces, and that is very welcome in the operations of Flash and Storm itself, but also later, at the time, I say, fulfilling the criteria for joining NATO. I'll just mention that precisely these operations, the Flash and Storm and today are mentioned in numerous and study at numerous military universities around the world as an example of how combat operations are successfully conducted. Here and now, I don't know, you've probably read in these various comments, that Ukraine, when it announces now anti-offensive, simply, military analysts judge whether this is a sufficient period, that they've strengthened enough, whether they're qualified enough for such a single operation, and in a positive sense, mentioning exactly the Republic of Croatia and the OSRH that have done this as an example. Of course, after entering Croatia into NATO, there was a time of peace all over Europe, and in some ways, a number of countries were mired in these benefits of peace, so ideas began to emerge about it as practically more armed forces and we do not need them, we do not need certain tribes of the Armed Forces, aviation, etc., because we are members of NATO because we are in accordance with Article. 5, etc., we don't need it anymore, which was very, very wrong. Often the opposition has just pointed out that 2% of GDP is too much money, that it can be spent much smarter, etc., until this situation with Russia's aggression on Ukraine has arrived and we've all realized that the simple development of the Armed Forces, the development of combat capabilities is a permanent task and that there is no joke, simply there, we have to be consistent, I have to work on it completely because we never know when such a situation will simply indicate that we have to do this...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121616	We have several replicas, the first honoured Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121617	We fully support the accession of both Sweden and Finland to NATO membership because, to a large extent, their accession will contribute to strengthening the security of all of us so far. Well, back in the few months since these two states have shown interest in being part of the NATO alliance, some have in some ways denied, not to make fun of, voiced opposition or simply opposed to joining the alliance of Sweden and Finland, and what we could hear here today in this assembly. Well, here's a little comment on that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121618	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121619	Thank you for asking... I'm sorry there's no Mr. Whiteman here right now, so let me give him a little, too, a little response to that replica because he's in favour of the European armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good idea, however, he forgets that Europe just got a little smudged, that they simply did not develop combat potentials. And right now they simply don't have these necessary potentials that they have now shown necessary, and which would have been if it hadn't been for the United States right now and the VB that are very helpful in delivering the weapons, simply wouldn't have, the question of what would be left of Ukraine so far if we had relied solely on the European armed forces. Simple, and we know that these military potentials cannot increase significantly within a month or two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121620	Next replica, respected Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121621	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, well, through today's debate, we have heard the importance of just extending NATO's pact with new members, Sweden and Finland. Also, the importance of Croatia's entry into NATO has been repeatedly mentioned. On our way in, we accepted certain obligations, we accepted the obligations of increased investment and the allocation of funds from the Republic of Croatia's budget to equip the Croatian Army, to raise the defence power of Croatian military forces, but we also accepted the obligation to further train our troops. Given the level of security threat, do you consider it necessary to expand training, i.e. education of a wider number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether through the re-activatement of a compulsory military term or through some other kind of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121622	Vice President, thank you, colleague. Well, I'm just going back to that article. 5 and that's what a lot of people fool, they just think someone's covering for us and someone's protecting us. However, they forget that, in practice, not us but every NATO member must first be able to defend himself and, if necessary, help me and the other members in accordance with that particular article. 5. In this sense, the government, the current government, has also increased the budget or allocation funds for the Armed Forces budget to some at the moment at around 7 billion this year, which is in line with the prescribed standards somewhere around 2% of GDP. In addition, it is also intended for the purchase of fighter aircraft, but on the other hand, funds are provided for the development of the Land Army, i.e. infantry and the raising and training of reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121623	Next replica, dear Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121624	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shashin. If we remember the start of the North Atlantic Alliance when 12 countries signed a contract in Washington on 4 April 1949, which has now grown to 30 Member States, under the agenda and the goal of preserving freedom and retaining stability and progress, we see that this is exactly what Sweden and Finland want. They enter for the preservation of their freedom, for stability and for progress. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia did not have that privilege in the '90s when we created our own country on the victim, we are in blood, we were not a NATO member, and therefore, unfortunately, today we have both Ovcara and 150 mass graves and for this reason we need to know what it is and not allow it to happen again in Europe again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121625	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121626	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. So those of us who have experienced and experienced the Homeland War in some way may feel a little different about it all together because the simple history has taught us and we never want to make that mistake again. Although we weren't at the time, we could have done anything different than we did. We were neither a recognised state nor an armed force at the time, we were practically from scratch. We had a heart, we had the patriotism of our defenders who, with the help of, I say, and the true leader, our late President Tudjman stood on the bumper, defended ourselves, many then did not believe that we would succeed, simply, as some today do not believe in Ukraine, that they would succeed, I deeply believe in it, and I said it on the first day, if it did not fall apart in the first 5 days, it would surely eventually come out as a winner, of course it takes a little time and material resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121627	Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121628	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Shashin, you've well established all the facts comparable to our Homeland War. For 105 years, however, Finland has been watching neighbouring Russia, which has inflicted heavy casualties on it, and hundreds of thousands of Finns were dead in the Red Army's wake. Today, when we look at it the way they look, 105 years they've watched and analyzed a big and powerful neighbor, and that's why they're getting ready. 75.73% of respondents in Finland say military emergency and need is mandatory. Why? History taught them. Suffering taught them, everything that happened, says they need NATO umbrellas and help and protection. That's what we certainly do today when we discuss in the Parliament we want them to be safe, not to be threatened like Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121629	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121630	Vice President, thank you. Mr. Djakić, well recently I was in Sweden and I had little opportunity to talk to their officers, etc., and I felt their wish and their will, or their breathing. Indeed, I am sure that the entry of Sweden and Finland will significantly strengthen the northern wing of NATO up and will in some ways provide additional security for the EU. But also what you point out may not be mandatory but in some way some way training our reserve or our young people in order to in some way enable them to provide or train themselves to defend themselves, and thus the whole, whole, whole country be not able to give God if there is ever a time to defend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121631	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121632	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Shaslin, of course this accelerated entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO was caused by what happened to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and there is no dilemma. I wish Croatia had such a quick approach to NATO's 1990s alliance when Serbia and Serbs committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. But what I still want to ask you is if I know you have experience, you were also a Croatian defender for a long time you were commander in the Croatian Army. Perhaps this difference that people may not notice, the difference between Croatian soldiers and even after the Homeland War after '98, we entered NATO alliance and today's Croatian soldier who is trained according to the highest NATO standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121633	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121634	So here's how I would divide it into three kind of time periods. We had a Croatian soldier highly motivated during the Homeland War and right after the Homeland War. Then we had one period when there was a change in political and when this morale was being sought, and all together in a way that was possible to reduce, reduce, break, we all know what was going on with the defenders, how they were marginalized, etc., made a lot of it negative and in the armed forces themselves, and then we finally have this third period when we realize again that the armed forces are very important, very important, very simple and motivation and the ability of the armed forces is increasing significantly, significantly. So these years we can really say that we have a respective armed force, armed forces that respect and a vast majority of the armed forces in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121635	The last replica, the esteemed Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121636	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Russian invasions in Ukraine have completely changed the security environment in Europe and therefore both Sweden and Finland have found themselves in danger and certainly for this reason and have requested NATO accession. I think that Croatia has no valid reason to cross the entry of Sweden and Finland if we know that Croatian diplomacy has actually done everything possible for the Croats in BiH and that these two, two cases are not properly tied up. And for that reason, I think the Croatian Parliament should support this proposal to join Sweden and Finland into NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121637	Vice-President, thank you, fellow Shimičević, I agree absolutely with you that the Croatian Parliament should support this. We absolutely don't have any reason to, but this one doesn't support it. I also know what you wanted to emphasize with that. These concessions from our president who have been in recent months and weeks have indeed done great damage to the reputation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia because such inappropriate statements have only caused damage. This turned out that Croatia is simply not consistent or that two different policies are being conducted, etc. Yeah. I think it is extremely irresponsible, inappropriate for such an institution of the president of the state to come out in public, in the international public. We also saw the reactions of a number of countries that they reacted to, how they isolated him in some way, and finally I think he realized he was wrong too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121638	Thank you. Next individual debate, esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when Putin launched an aggression on February 24th against Ukraine, and he used one excuse to justify this aggression, which is that he does not want NATO forces at the border with the Russian Federation. And he got exactly the opposite effect. So NATO is expanding. The Western response was the NATO enlargement, of course, at the request of the two European states of Sweden, Finland, which we had heard before, which were the historical reasons why they were neutral, military neutral. Politically they were never neutral or unclassified, they were always on the side of free Western democracies. And they asked for NATO entry and today we decide on it and I believe that tomorrow we will support their NATO entry by a large majority of votes. That, of course, changes geopolitical. A new order in Europe. We may also need to add one piece of information that we have not yet mentioned, which is that Denmark, which is a member of NATO but had opt out, has therefore not taken part in the European defence policy has decided to join this. We therefore have European countries that were members of the EU, not NATO, which are now entering NATO and those who were members of NATO but have not participated in the European defence policy that are now taking part. And now we have an ever-increasing match between the members of both the EU and NATO. We see in the EU's strategic compass that the EU's security is based precisely on NATO's alliance and this is exactly showing a new situation, a new order where Europe as part of the West is developing its capacities, what we call our strategic autonomy of action, but not moving away from the United States, but together with the United States as part of the geopolitical West. Of course, we've heard there'll be some clubs, for example. no wonder those who continue to represent or are trapped I would say in that policy unclassified when they vote against it, they were against Croatia's NATO entry and would otherwise not want NATO to expand. We also heard that there was a chance that when Montenegro came in to solve some bilateral issues. However, I will remind here that then Montenegro was the victim of a single coup attempt where operatives from Russian military intelligence, some, some structures also from Serbia that wanted to stop Montenegro's path to NATO and I wonder, and what if we missed that chance of Montenegro being part of the so-called today. Serbia's world, not to be pro-Westernly oriented by a NATO alliance member. So I think it's completely declassified in that sense to say that it was not good to accept and support Montenegro's entry into NATO in the way we did. A number of other topics are clearly being opened in this debate, and this question was also how Turkey acted in this process. Turkey, of course, has had and has some communication with the United States on a number of topics, strategic topics, from Afghanistan and beyond, and in this case what it has done has not been exactly in progress or in some agreement. There were some states that tried to condition themselves, and they didn't have that deal when we joined NATO. There was an attempt by a referendum in Slovenia to force Croatia to make some territorial concessions, they went through infamously. So a little reality about how these things are done for those who know how to run foreign policy. In any case, Croatia thinks we should support the entry of both Finland and Sweden into NATO, thus repeating our commitment to being part of the West, that we are part of the Western democracy community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121640	Replica first, respected Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121641	Thank you very much, Vice President. As part of the OSCE delegation, I took part together with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Birmingham, the Birmingham Declaration, which undoubtedly condemns all 57 members of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, also contains a conclusion concerning the activities that all Member States and all countries are obliged to implement in terms of achieving world peace and stabilisation in terms of war interruption, and also reducing all the consequences of human rights to the economic and economic crisis. I think today's debate and what we will vote in the Croatian Parliament is precisely on the trail of this and that one of these activities and the expansion of NATO is, or enlargement for the members of Sweden and Finland, that it will just contribute to this goal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121642	Thank you, fellow Simic, for your question or comment. I agree that we are contributing to a stronger and better situation in Europe by receiving Sweden and Finland to NATO. As for the role of the OSCE, it is still an organisation in which the Russian Federation is present, and the United States is present. I recently spoke with Reinhold Lopatko, who was on behalf of the OSCE both in Kiev and in this way helped, encouraged a dialogue that we hope will enable, and we see that it is going in this direction, that agreement to be implemented for the export of cereals from Ukraine, which is of course important for the world's safety, especially for the diet in, in the world today, to remove that blockage for Ukrainian cereals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121643	The next replica honours Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121644	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, an organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty or NATO, has the task of preserving the common values of allies, which is democracy, individual freedom, rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution, but it is also a task to preserve peace by political and military means. In Croatia, we have hoped somehow after the Homeland War that we will not be in such a quick situation that peace should be preserved and any political or military way, but the invasion of Russia has shown that this is not the case and when we put it into context, in the context of the geopolitical situation of the Republic of Kosovo, it is important to stress that as the 29th state entered NATO, as in 30th of 2020, northern Macedonia entered, and as a possible focus in our vicinity is certainly the Republic of Kosovo, and do you think that there is a possibility that there will soon be an initiative to launch the issue of Kosovo's entry into NATO alliance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121645	Thank you so much, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. I think that as far as NATO's further expansion is concerned, we are already more or less all NATO countries except for Serbia which is not and does not want to be, and then we have Kosovo and BiH that are not in NATO, but that is why NATO is present in these countries, and in this way I think that one architecture is being completed, but it opens and leaves the door open and BiH and Kosovo are also becoming members if, if they so wish, in any case, I think that Croatia will certainly be supporting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121646	The next replica honours Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121647	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, anyone who has had reason to support the confirmation of these protocols on accession to Sweden and Finland NATO, understanding the overall security but also the political situation. Anyone with any understanding of foreign policy knows that these issues cannot be solved by the behavior of an elephant in glass in a way that is valued because it can then cause far-reaching consequences. We have seen, for example, how long this NATO accession process lasted for Macedonia because it was exposed to various blackmails, and what has significantly affected security in that part of Europe. You have touched in your presentation of both the European defence forces and certain advances on the geopolitical scene, so I would ask you to tell me a little bit more about this, what your expectations are in some subsequent period related to the European defence forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121648	Thank you, colleague Petir, for this matter, it seems to me that we are entering one stage when it is absolutely necessary for the EU to further develop its defence capacities, but it is important to do so precisely in the way in which the strategic compass is detailed, and this is not in the opposite, not as a competition with NATO, but that NATO and the alliance are then with the United States as a major, major ally within NATO, to develop, to develop European capacities so that Europe can act autonomously strategically. But I repeat not so that it will be in competition, not opposing, but together with American allies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121649	At 15:30 we will begin with the next point means a proposal to launch a trust issue to Gordan Grlic Radman, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we will continue this point once we have finished that point. The next replica, the esteemed Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121650	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Stier, you are long in foreign policy and you well know what the situation says in the wider environment, and I am interested in your comment or opinion that Russia has succeeded in its efforts in 10 days in some way occupying Ukraine, perhaps today we would have armed conflicts somewhere in the neighborhood or near our borders. It is also likely that European unity would be at stake, given the difficult economic and economic situation that it is. I would like to know how you comment on the views of individual European countries that often put their personal interests ahead of the interest of the EU or the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121651	Dear colleague Shashin, the fact is that Russia has achieved some tactical shifts now. Of course, it was not like that Blitzkrieg that appeared at first and simply in this regard we see that it may have even overestimated the quality, the power of the conventional forces of the Russian Federation. It remains a nuclear force and should never be underestimated, however, it may have been overestimating how the Russian Federation will act, or its armed forces at the outset. But the answer was unique to the EU and to the West, there are certainly different tones, but this unity is still in place and it is crucial, for example, around. This is about receiving Sweden and Finland what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121652	Next replica, respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, I'd like to ask you the same question that I asked my colleagues to. So, with certainly a number of positive NATO memberships, there are certain criticisms of NATO as concepts, NATO as organisations. Some of them we could hear today in the debate. Can you single out a few of them that you think are justified? I think it's just from the position of balancing the argument that I'm saying, so regardless of the attitude that you and your party are going to take, about the attitude that I end up taking, that's what we remember from the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, but here's just whether we can single out some of the arguments critical and just be simple, that we have one balance in this argument in the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121654	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic, for that question. NATO would probably not exist as a collective defence system that the collective security system works. So, after '45. with the UN, it was thought that the collective security that the UN was to organise would be sufficient. It was very quickly seen at the beginning of the Cold War that it was not so and that collective security simply did not work because although the idealistic approach that President Roosevelt had at the beginning had at the beginning, and on the trail of Wilson's foreign policy simply the reality was something different. And that is why a collective defence system was to be organised, which is why NATO needs it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121655	The next replica honours Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121656	In such complex circumstances, the essence of each diplomacy is to come up with something for its national interests. Croatian diplomacy does nothing, as well as what it would do. What is the international position of Croatia we could see the other day at Dubrovnik Forum and how your boss and your government are viewed by international partners. No one relevant from Europe and the world has come to this conference. And another piece of evidence that we have witnessed these days is the Resolution of the Bundestag on BiH in which Croatia is placed in the same basket as the Republic of Serbia that was convicted of genocide. Thus, Croatian diplomacy showed how much it serves the state of Croatia. It's called zero points. Croatian diplomacy is used to imprison the godmothers of your boss Plenkovic such as a certain Showing the son of a Yugoslav Show or Hidaje Biscevic associate of UDBE who works against Croats in the Republic of Serbia. If they reach your ruling coalition of this indisputable and irrefutable fact, or if you all live together in your pink parallel world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121657	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121658	Thank you, colleagues, for that. With the support of the ruling majority, the government of the Republic of Croatia supports the equality of Croats in BiH as a constituent people, also seeks to change the electoral law, as also sought by courts, the European court and the BiH Constitutional Court. Such a policy has led to criticism, even criticism in the Bundestag, but that does not mean that we must give up on that policy. The argument whether or not someone came, and there were criticisms on Tudjman's policy from the international community, gave us no need to organise Operation Storm, so we should continue to support the Croats in BiH, equality as a constituent people, regulation and a European perspective of BiH, but also that all the nations, the constituent nations, will be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121659	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121660	He's been injured. 238. because this is an insult to MPs and the demeaning of MPs because you are, in fact, trying to create a manipulative untruth, comparing Tudjman and the circumstances when Croatia was an unwanted child in the entire world community with the current situation where your boss Plenkovic unwarrantedly and falsely whines some successes in the EU, and Dubrovnik Forum and other examples that I have cited clearly testify that your government has no results in diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121661	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, no, you went on purpose in such a comparison, you went to be criticized for not showing up or not showing up or having critical voices, for example. in the Bundestag, but we need to talk about the metrics, which is why these criticisms came about, because of a policy that requires equality of all constituent peoples in BiH. I think such a policy should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121663	It was a replica for you, so you get a warning. And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121664	Yes, again. In 238, a fellow representative persists in insulting the reprisals. So when you talk about successes and your diplomacy and your government, all countries in these circumstances take care of their national interests, and Croatia pays more expensive fuel than countries where the standard is four times higher, and you have not responded to the godmothers of your boss, certain people from the former South system who fall in love with that same foreign ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121665	And you get a second warning. It's a replica, Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121666	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, here we all have witnessed that over the past 2 years. The entire world order has been living in extraordinary circumstances, after which we are now witnessing a global energy crisis which is partly caused by Russian aggression in Ukraine, although both the West and most modern worlds have unanimously and unitedly condemned aggression, in particular 141 UN members, on the other hand we are witnessing that a new line of iron curtains is currently being withdrawn in Eastern Europe that enemies become friends and that some new alliances are being created, or that we could be able to say freely and some new future world order that uses all these uncertaintys that are happening. And for this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HS, as the most legislative body, must make responsible, quick and key decisions like this one today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121667	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121668	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. At one point, I thought maybe you'd accuse me, too, for the first time, that I'd heard that I was connected to some participatory, mostly accused me of coming from hostile migration, but for this second, for this second time, that's always the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121669	I told your boss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121670	This one, but your question was about a new order and it is really being created in front of our eyes, a new bipolarism I would say, not as ideological as it was during the Cold War but more on some geopolitical basis, but there is also part of it, of course and valuable, if you want and ideological because on one side are autocracy, and Croatia is on this side of the free world of Western democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121671	Next replica, dear Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121672	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Stier, you have begun your debate by saying that Putin has just explained his aggression on Ukraine by the fact that he does not want NATO at the borders of the Russian Federation. We are now discussing Finland's entry into NATO, and NATO is now coming to its borders. But what I want to ask you as an experienced diplomat is about the president of the Republic of Croatia. Two three months before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, practically our President of the Republic had an understanding of Putin's views, later when it came to Finland and Sweden's turn to join NATO there almost opposed their entry or blackmailed the international community. I wonder how much this really harms the Republic of Croatia in the world, those attitudes of his?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121673	Thank you, colleague Totgergeli. And you see, what is important to say here, which is that at first, at least to anyone who understands this was clear that Croatia would support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, and at the very end of the line that attitude supported and raised the hand to enter Sweden and Finland and the president of the republic at the NATO summit. As far as maybe consistency is concerned, such an attitude seems to me to be one debate that we can safely discuss here at the internal meeting and we've led it and I've pollomised it several times in the media space, and as far as foreign policy is concerned, it was good that he still denied what he was saying earlier and that he supported the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121674	Next replica, the esteemed Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121675	Your Honor, Vice President. A fellow Stier, today a lot of things, talked in the direction, compared the reactions of the Western world and Russia and tried to level it there, now there's a fight or war between America and Russia and put everything else aside. Comparing even Western democracy and the way it works and we have seen how it can even enter NATO alliance, into the EU, consensus, etc., so it's very democratic and compare Russia and how Russia decides whether to go into war with whom, what and how, and how, an absoluteism, one way of ruling, and so perhaps to comment a little while we remember very well the destruction of the Berlin Wall and the offer, under quotes, America that this same Russia, if it's interested, can enter NATO if it wants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121676	Thank you, colleague Cappelly, for that question. The fact is that after the Cold War in NATO, a special council for NATO and Russia's co-operation was reached, and there was one attempt to create a new order based on co-operation, not security competition with the Russian Federation. Unfortunately after 24 February, it is quite clear that it is impossible, unfortunately, if you will, to enter a new phase that I have mentioned or characterized as a new type of bipolarism, what is clearly the position of Croatia in this. We're on the West side, we're on the side of free democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121677	Next individual debate, respected Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121678	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's nice to meet you. Okay. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here, following the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine that it has created, I would say, the biggest security crisis since the Second World War, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden have shown their concern about the current security geopolitical situation that is directly reflected and developed among other things to the security of Finland and so on and Sweden. Both countries have therefore expressed their wish and intention to become members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, i.e. NATO, a NATO alliance whose primary task is to preserve peace and security, i.e. the common values of allies, it is democracy, individual freedom, the rule of law and a peaceful solution to conflict, and it is a political and military way. The NATO Council and its 30 states, the Allies state made a unanimous decision on the open road for the reception of 2 new members, Finland and Sweden into its alliance, and now the ratification of decisions by 30 parliaments, and of course the HS. I'm glad we're among the first, I think we're going to be the seventh, and I'm glad we're going to be among the first countries to ratify these contracts. A recent NATO summit in Madrid can indeed be characterized, I would say a historic milestone. It has been said enough today that, in fact, a few months ago, this has been unimaginable which, which alliances are being created, which all states and which all and ultimately and political forces and political forces, if you will, groups, agree now and agree with this move of Finland and Sweden and which will give their consent and raise their hand. So time, in times we're, we're, we're in times where it's really thorough, everything changes from the ground up and at a very high rate. The Alliance has not only decided on its expansion, but has changed a strategy which, unfortunately, I underline it, indeed, the Russian Federation has now become the biggest danger from NATO's partner, and that is why it has actually turned everything upside down. What was thought to be a thing of the past, now somehow caught up with us and, somehow, became a reality that we couldn't even imagine. And Putin, if Putin wanted to achieve something, he's... he's incomprehensible to these, of course he's become, he's really done quite the opposite. He united both Europe and the United States and Canada and forced them to focus with such intensity and so much strength that this would indeed be one of those, as I have already pointed out, one historic milestone. So far, Finland and Sweden have strictly led a policy of military neutrality for decades, not wanting to compromise the strength ratio or the security situation in the neighborhood, and of course, they never wanted to irritate the Soviet Union back then and later the Russian Federation. After the collapse, of course, the Soviet Union in '91. Finland and Sweden remained neutral even though they were approaching the EU, they approached, of course, in '95. have become EU members, but as I have already noted, they have remained neutral despite all of this, precisely not to irritate this, in fact, equilibrium. Sweden has not been part of any military alliance for more than two hundred years and has maintained that neutrality even during World War II, which we could hear today, several times. On the other hand, Finland has moved to neutrality after itself, we know history, defeat by the Soviet Union in World War II, however, the Russian invasion in Ukraine has shaken all these relationships... [[Intruder: Time.]] Then I'll continue in final. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121679	We do. No, I don't. We've got a few replicas. Dear Anita Pocrnic Radošević. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121680	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Busic. In the context of the accession of R. Finland and K. Sweden to NATO, in which the main reason is the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we also need to discuss a changed security environment for the Republic of Croatia. A part of the public may not even know that Montenegro has been a NATO member since 2017 in a process that began in 2006 by calling on Montenegro to join NATO membership, which it accepted and received. Since you are actively following international relations, what does NATO's accession to you mean for Montenegro, and what does it mean for the Republic of Croatia, given our geographical location and position of Montenegro in the Adriatic Sea, but also in the Mediterranean Sea? Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121681	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what I was just talking about with my colleague Stier's replica. I was actually just about to explain exactly what you asked, colleague. Namely, we're talking about 2017 when Montenegro... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Okay, I thought you didn't. ... So, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are talking about 2017 when Montenegro joined NATO, and there were really questions here that, of course, have the right to, which compared that we could use in 2017, as Turkey now used in 2022 and conditioned Sweden, that is, to take advantage of that opportunity to Sweden and Finland, and I wanted to compare how much, which is the difference between one Turkey and one that conditioned, conditioned in this way that we all know that I am not repeating, and Croatia [[Intruder: Please allow your colleague to finish.]] which is in the interest of, in fact, the interest to close actually [[Intruder: Time.]] Otrant door [[Intruder: Time.]] And the freedom of this, where would we be today? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121682	We have another replica, a respected Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121683	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Busic. You have rightly pointed out that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed our security environment because it is an aggression against freedom of choice, democracy, international law and this move of Finland and Sweden is certainly logical in this security sense. We have already heard what NATO is getting through their accession because it is about countries that have been developing their army for many years, which have their navy, have military industries, new technologies, but perhaps we haven't touched enough today to release some supply routes through the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, especially in terms of food and energy that are being blocked today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121684	That's exactly what I'm talking about. I hope we'll have a chance to discuss it and touch it and that's exactly what I wanted to say finally, exactly what you said, you just said now. So it's not just, we get, NATO alliance or, of course, Croatia, because we're part of that family, we get really one strong support at the end and direction of working, supply routes, and fellow Cappelli said that we're actually closing that entire area with NATO, we're actually getting one Baltic lake, which is now called from the Baltic Sea, of course, and what, and as far as that goes, so we all know here that Finland and Sweden are one of the strongest and most powerful countries and with the strongest economies that have developed their defence capacity, so they're an immeasurable gain to NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121685	It's okay. Now we're gonna take 10 minutes off, and we're gonna start with this next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121686	Well, the point is now, and we got the agenda. So, uh, I'd like to ask the Bureau of Parliament to respect the agenda. The HS cannot be based on the will of the prime minister. HS is above the prime minister and we need to finish this point and then proceed with the second point. This is embarrassing what you've been doing since HS. It's 3:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121687	Now we're going back to the point we broke up. Nikola Grumoja's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121688	Thank you. Here we are all day, my colleague Bulj has spent the night in this burned area with our firefighters, but still here as many of us as we from HDZ have called no opposition, there is opposition, there is opposition, there we are, we are also discussing the impeachment of Minister Grlic Radman, but also on this topic of entering Sweden and Finland into NATO. So, said counterpart Rasudiæ, our principled position, therefore, to support the wish of every sovereign state, of course, if it meets the conditions to, to approach the associations it considers necessary. But it should also be said that Croatia and the present minister did not take advantage of, this government does not have any mechanism at our disposal to protect Croatian national interests. I spoke here earlier in this discussion about the relationship with Serbia, we talked a lot, especially my colleague Rasdic sees that his HDZ colleagues are in a lot of pain, so they mention him even when he's not here and today they've actually made him the best possible ad, especially his colleague Kapulica, when he pulled out statements criticising the current President Milanovic. They keep talking like he's some kind of chat, so this president from Pantovic, and then they pull out a statement where Nino Rasdic is fiercely critical of President Milanovic. So they deny themselves and there they are shown how executed they are, how powerful our arguments are here and how much they show that Croatia finally needs a sovereign policy and people like Nin Rasdic who are always on the Croatian national line. And not those who are obedient, who are chats, who follow the Maxim, as he said to his colleague Rasudic, tie the horse where he tells you to. And that is the policy supported by Plenkovic's HDZ today. Unfortunately, we could also see this during President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic when Ante Deur was sitting there and when it was actually forbidden for President Kolinda to mention great Serb aggression. I don't know if Mr. Deur was involved in those negotiations with Alexander Vukic, but that was, too, and that was agreed on being a national high treason. So that's where you work and you can say freely that there's a national high treason. As with high treason, I would not be as kind as my colleague Pavliček as that is something Minister Grlic Radman does well, but that is not enough. No, Minister Grlic Radman and for that we have presented evidence here concealing corruption, Minister Grlic Radman did not make a single move after what Bundestag did or invited the Ambassador of Germany to talk, nor sent a protest note, nor responded in any way. Nor is the Croatian Parliament, here is Vice President Sanader, whether the Bureau of Parliament has done anything, whether the president has called on the Bureau to send a letter to Bundestag. Nothing. Zero. Zero. It's your policy and it's not just in this case. So, I set the example of these people who came to me, so the families of the missing from Sotina who have been deceived, were deceived by Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and Ante Deur, were also deceived by Minister Grlic Radman, pressing charges in Serbia themselves, and they are being sued for immaterial damage without any help or anyone asked them for health, nor did anyone ask them if you needed help with the financing of the lawyer and everything else. So that's Croatian politics. And I'm here today from protesting this servant, obedient policy I won't talk about Sweden and Finland, what I'm interested in are Croatian national interests. Croatian national interests. And when I talk to anyone and I'll tell Croatia first, then USAID can go second, for example, but Croatia first. It is a national and sovereign, sovereign policy and I expect it from this government, from this minister, but unfortunately the Croatian people do not get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121689	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121690	Honorable Vice President 239, please, Mr. Grumoy, if you don't know anything, you can't claim it. You insult, you're no sovereign, you're depraved about lying because you don't know something, you're a man who doesn't even have respect for values except in his political act. Because you can go to Metkovic's, ask if you can have a cup of coffee? How are you feeling down there? You know what you're saying is false, lying. [[- Intruder: Excellent.]] Insinuation it's the only thing you know and what you're doing. [[Intruder: Time.]] This time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121691	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Please don't ask anything. [[I would, I would ask the Assembly.../]] Here's a replica. You're getting a warning from Mr. Grmoya. [[Intruder: I would like to ask the parliamentary services so my colleague today has 10 injuries to the Rules of Procedure.]] You get a warning, another warning, and you lose your right. [[Intruder: During today.]] You're not in charge of the comments here. Marko Milinović litre, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121692	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's my colleague, Grmoy, we've moved on to the first subject, we're back in the morning. The theme is Sweden and Finland, the context of NATO, the NATO Alliance, so I will ask you since Croatia is the first one that I can sign, we have had a huge incident that I would say has been forgotten, and this is the drop of a drone that weighs more than 6 tonnes, more than 14 meters long, in the city center of all Croats has fallen and today we don't know what happened. I believe that we benefit from the NATO alliance, but it should serve as a weapon or another supplement, not as the main axis of Croatia's national capabilities, military capacities and military equipment. We were obviously not ready for something by showing one great uncertainty in national, national security. So I want your opinion on it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121693	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121694	So, I agree with this one, so we joined the NATO Alliance for the security of our country and our citizens, and then I guess that defence shield should work. It cannot happen that two, two member states pass that drone and no one responds. So you have to determine who's responsible so that it doesn't happen again. So, it definitely needs to be questioned, but it was used at one point by the rulings who were scaring the public with it because then they were in the middle of an affair I think every day we're having some sort of affair with some HDZ minister or HDZ, but then it was useful for the Prime Minister because they were arrested by Horvat and they were afraid with that drone, when it was over, now this drone story is over. So, I agree with you that we should definitely examine this, determine the gaps so that these failures don't repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121695	Miro Bulj, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121696	He's a friend of Grumo's. Instead of being a strong and tough Croatian policy, in this case as regards the entry of Sweden and Finland, and to use the Croats in BiH, to put it on the table and to solve this problem forever, they will be servantly, semitronically, as it will be, the result will be cheaper, no matter what you have done for the Croats, colleague Kapulica? Forgotten, left behind, they serve you only for the voting machine and the other, since Deur has 15 warnings, at least you could get one warning because this is really from the bench to speak, Mr. Chairman, 17 warnings he had. ... No matter what you do, you're ruined. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have destroyed the Croats in BiH, but they will survive because this power will have to be passed and a sovereign policy must come to protect neither Sweden nor Finland nor the US or Russian interests, but only above all [[Intruder: Please.]] Priority are Croatian interests... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121697	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121698	Well, the question wasn't addressed to me, so it was kind of a finding to the HDZ colleagues, so I can agree that Croatia should lead a sovereign national policy. We are not a great force, we are not a great country, we cannot surely achieve all the great powers that can therefore and some other interests that are not what we are looking for, we are not looking for bread over a cake, we are asking that Dayton be respected, to respect the Constitution of BiH, the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Some of the forces we already have, especially these greatest forces, can demand much more in these international relations, be much more rude, we need to look for partners, try to convince our partners that what we're looking for is real, real, and that we deserve it, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121699	Mario Capula, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121700	Thank you very much. I'd have one question right now and if we put the ball down, I'd be interested in the answer. So, President Zoran Milanovic recently, there was also this opportunity, and some thought it was an opportunity for BiH to also get candidate status. He said that, he was talking about the poor and distracted BiH that needs that candidate status that doesn't mean anything anyway, but gives hope. Now, there's no colleague of yours, but I'm sorry about that, and that's one of... However, he also said in 2020, not in 2010, counterpart Rasdic, that it should be made clear, not only that Croatia will not support the European path of BiH, but that it will also block obtaining candidate country status until the election law changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we know that in the moment Milanovic says that, the electoral law has not been changed, he insists on election law So I'm wondering what's the point of view here? [[I get the question.]] [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121701	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121702	I understand your question. So the statements are different. In 2020, counterpart Rasdic said BiH should therefore be conditional on meeting some conditions, resolving the EU's Electoral Law, President Milanovic said in 2022 that, regardless of the unresolved Croatian issue, BiH should be included in the EU, thus perhaps stabilising it, removed from the Russian influence. The circumstances are not the same, it is clear to you that we have Russian aggression in Ukraine, we are at risk of escalating the crisis in BiH via R. Srpska. The question is therefore how should Croatia be asked. I'm not sure that by stopping BiH, then, on that road, we would have achieved our interests because who doesn't want a European path to BiH? Most of all, R. Serbian maybe, right? And if we stop them, then we won't solve the election law issue. I'm formerly, now you're going to say I'm a Milanese, but... I'm used to having them admitted. [[Intruder: Time.]] Which, even though it wasn't settled. [[Invader: Marijan Pavliček, next replica.]] So, and I can't comment statements... [[Mr. Grmoya, past tense.]] Okay, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121703	Marian Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121704	Dear counterpart Grmoja, here I am at the end of this last debate because I was raised to give my hand to my colleague Grlic Radman because I respect the minister's institution, regardless of what he congratulated me on, but here, you also got the 33rd representative who supports your initiative, which is unitary Bosniak politics, that is Komsic, that is Izetbegović. Do you think that this initiative, signed by your representatives, has caused dissension and damage to the Croatian people in BiH? I personally believe that not because I believe that this is precisely the point of democracy, that we point to problems in one cultural way and that no policy is sacred to cows, so neither is HDZ policy, nor is today-to-day policy of any of us, if we are part of or rule, and therefore the opposition is there to quality say what the problems are on their part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121705	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121706	Do you know if you would be an ally of unitary politics and political Sarajevo? That we were looking for the recall of Grlic Radman because he's messing with BiH. Then they would celebrate us much more and say, you see, even in Croatia they say that Croatia should not interfere in BiH, as the left opposition once claimed, have improved a little, except We can!, they still need to be repaired. So these others are much better than they were. And this one, what is the measure here, so who has damaged Croatia's position? Prime Minister Plenkovic here with his statement that President Milanovic, when he said the first soap then perfume, in fact, led to Bosniaks giving up amendments to the election law. Well, they've voted us three times already. So Milanovic's statement can't be the reason now that Bosniaks don't agree to amendments to the electoral law when we've been voted three times already, and That statement is not at all controversial, if we're going to this one or that one... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121707	Next Individual Discussion Honored Hrvoje Zekanovic, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's losing his right. Final debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, was respected Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a moment, it kind of sounded like we were back at that earlier point, but I think we're on NATO's accession now. Okay. Here, I'll pick up where I left off in an individual debate, but now I'm just gonna speak for the club. The HDZ Club will really support this and strongly and loudly support these proposals, and today, I think we are really finishing one, and here, we end a good story with this debate for the NATO alliance and for our own, indeed, for our safety. Now, there's been a lot of debate and emphasis today, and here, again, this one kind of emphasized itself in these few minutes, so that some blackmails, let's either call obligations or conditions, let's call it whatever we want, but that's actually a condition setting, so I'd kind of ask my colleagues to think about how much these conditions and conditions have brought benefits. Ever, not only to Croatia, but to anyone. Today, Turkey, I have talked about it today, Turkey, how and how Turkey has conditioned and we all know it, we have read about it very much, and in addition, we have heard loud and clear answers both this and the presidents of Finland and Sweden to the Turkish conditions and demand, as well as answers to actually the Prime Minister. They were clear, so it won't answer them, but it'll be a matter of court. It's not exactly how people can be extradited, and I think that we absolutely now disagree with Turkey that they now and they won't do it as democratic states, countries that have very stable democracy, they have their own way of doing it and doing it and be sure, I would dare say that they, they will hardly be extradited, so I think they will never. So, about how much she did, but no, we don't want to talk about it at all because it's Turkey and let her, she has the right to do what she wants, but I would like to, here today, colleague Ivo Stier was talking about how we got in in 2009. Was that okay? How are we doing, how have we been experiencing it? And we today to one Sweden and Finland, countries as well as developed democracies, with so many developed, all the elements of the functioning of one state, one, one strong economy, strong.../incomprehensible...... strong defence system, that we condition something, please, gentlemen, I think it's really more politics than any hope that we can achieve. So, I think we missed a lot of things in the debate today, as far as this topic is concerned, and that's why I want to, and besides, in 2017 when Montenegro entered NATO and Croatia really supported Montenegro, so let's just imagine what it would mean today, which would mean that Montenegro didn't happen to enter NATO in 2017. It wouldn't be easy for us to have the Adriatic now, actually free. And as much as Croatia would be protected from the danger of entering through the Otrant Gate, they simply enter their warships into the area of Montenegro or Boka Kotorska Bay. So let's be careful when we talk about these things and how and how they block and if that's the way, and that's why I have to say one more thing that we should be proud that HS will be, I emphasize, among the first, among the first which will ratify tomorrow with the pride of these two agreements. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121709	Next debate, Davor Dretar. He's gone. He's losing his right. Katarina Peovic, she's losing her right, she's gone. Miro Bulj in the name of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121710	Can Croatia condition something or not as a full member of NATO and European integration? Let's go back to the way Croatia went, passing the way to enter both European and North Atlantic integration. We had to arrest all the generals, humiliate the Homeland War and those greatest values, remember Vladimir Seks' words after the meeting of Stjepan Mesic, the perjurer of the elementary disaster and Ivo Sanader, when Seks said, as Parliament president, he then arrested, located, transferred and prosecuted Ante Gotovina. Let us remember the pressures of Savudrija, Piran Bay, from Slovenia, they did whatever they wanted, they conditioned we were literally on our knees thrown, but these are also our policies. However, Croats in BiH have been left behind in this case by Croatia. The President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic, in my opinion, well advocated that I agreed with him, did not agree that we would condition that the Croats achieve their goals and aspirations to join us. The EU. But in the end, he failed, and eventually he turned tail at a crucial moment when he was supposed to be very sharp, but at that point he paused. That is why the minister must recognise that Croatia must value the Croats in BiH more, the interests of the Croats in BiH regardless of Finland and Sweden and its interests, Finland and Sweden. To me, it is more of a priority for Croats in Bish than for Finland and Sweden not to belittle them, but to us, they are not our politics. Our policy is not because we haven't even spoken in my opinion what Zoran Milanovic as the president represents the tribunal is to represent the entire government and the president regardless of who the president is and which political options from. However, the Croatian government, headed by the prime minister and Minister Grlic, does not have the power because they respect only the Brussels instructions. Only and only, not the interests of the Croatian people, and we must be firm and fierce. I would now quote a national tribunal before World War II, it will be, it will be inappropriate, which Paul Krce, who gave a speech significant even entered as a man who did not even have a primary school, entered the Belgrade then assembly. But one day I'll say it, maybe now is not the time late is the age, it should be in... For hours when it's more public attention and I'm going to quote it one day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we didn't have what Paul Cruce was then a river. No strength, no strength. The People's Tribune. I don't know the Ministers why you're wrestling in BiH where you came from and where we're from in Sinj, why the Sinjans and the Cetinjans left them? Why did we leave them crucified on the cross? Why don't they have their own representatives, why aren't they integrated? Which, together with us, is part of ours, is our constitutional obligation to take care of the Croats in BiH. They're there below the national minority level. They have no constitutionality, absolutely none. These people are forgotten Livno, Tomislavgrad they're neighboring municipalities, cities, I think it's the same body. If we don't stand firm and fierce with these people, if we don't condition ourselves at a given time when we have a chance like this at the time of the entry of Sweden and Finland, no matter what democracy they look at their own interest and they will look at their interest, they will not look at the interest of the Croats in BiH. And the equality of Croats in BiH, i.e. Unitarian policy prevailed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Unitrativist policy, Barcharsian policy promoted most by Izetbegović, Stipe Mesic and this silence loud and resistance to combating Croats and conditionality if the Croatian trial The government has failed here. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121711	Here you go, Miro Totgergeli, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121712	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Bulj hurt 238th by insulting the intelligence of our MPs because he talks here that the Croats in BiH have been left behind and why we left them behind, while talking about how he agrees with what Milanovic is doing, and forgets that just in 2010 Milanovic went to BiH and contributed to this status of Croats in BiH by supporting Komsic and Bosniak politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121713	You're getting a warning. This was your replica. Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121714	Thank you very much. Injured Article 238, I said since the President of the Republic of Croatia has advocated the position to condition the entry of Sweden and Finland and that in the end, in order to solve the problem of Croats, he has eventually failed to turn tail now in the final step. I think together that should be the attitude that my position is not the president's what he's saying. As for the HDZ policy towards the Croats in BiH, it is absolutely cemetery. The Croats were forgotten there, left behind, and you have no firm and tough politics, a fierce policy towards this relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121715	And you, it was a replica to you you get a warning, it's your third warning you lose the right word until the end of this topic. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121716	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you. If I could, I'd lend you my own, one replica. Okay, yeah, yeah. [[I said.]] So I think today one was an extremely important foreign policy topic that should be seen comprehensively, which should be seen in those beginnings of the independence of the Croatian state which, as a small state, had to prove, affirmed its values in order to justify recognition in the international community, international recognition. That was the hardest way. Of course, freedom was to be fought, which was not easy. NATO membership in 2009, a transformed NATO guaranteeing security and defence, was the only natural goal of Croatian foreign policy, President Tudjman, who knew that Croatia belonged to the Western civilization circle. So NATO membership also means accepting NATO values, the principles of solidarity and open policy. Sweden and Finland, today there have been a lot of speeches, have wished for membership and Croatia strongly supports them because it is the meaning of the union, the meaning of the alliance. Finland and Sweden Mr. Bulju are members of the EU, I assume that you, apart from being mayor of Sinja, probably have this broad picture of the very complexity of the international community. So we're not alone in the world. The world is one composition of states of various interests, a lot of actors where you need to survive as a small state, where you need to talk, negotiate, be involved, not be conflicting, as you here now point out President Milanovic who you say is fierce, that he knows what the goals are, etc. When you look at President Milanovic with all due respect, we should again consider the fact that he did while he was prime minister. While he was prime minister of what he did for the position of the Croatian people in BiH, then situations and opportunities were much more favourable. There's a lot of cement left. The worst thing you know is when the foundation goes, on the ground, stone to stone, then it's much harder to degrade. What the Croatian government is doing, I'm sorry, Mr. Bulj, so I'm looking at you here and I respect you not to see, not to see, you're blinded by hate. You cannot find anyone in Croatia better than this government and Andrej Plenkovic. Don't get into a situation where I've lost my ignorance, I've had the ignorance of losing the knowledge, give yourself a little thought politically. You think about it a little bit, you know the more a man knows, the more complex it is. Socrates when he was at the highest level of knowledge was celebrated, then he said now I just know I don't know anything. Well, that's the greatest act of intellectual humility. And you think it's all simple, just like that. Milanovic said and it's over. It's a parolee, Mr. Bull. What kind of mechanisms are political, there is Milanovic. So Milanovic has done so much damage to the Croatian reputation in the international world. He has compromised all of its external political goals that are now under way. So it all reflects, reflects on the standard of Croatian citizens, on one problem Croatia. Did you want to bring Croatia into such a position? Are you following all these processes that are happening? How are you gonna do if you're here saying you're not and Mr. Grmoja said it wasn't Milanovic's as if there was some kind of subconscious syndrome, so it points out. So you're just proving... No, you're, uh, you're just proving that you're his, uh, tin soldier, so you're someone who advocates his views. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know, in Istanbul, at the court of the Sultan, there used to be a special position for you people called evetefendy. Their job was just to master, they nodded their heads. So, you're here, here you've advocated means Milanovic advocates blocking Sweden and Finland's NATO entry unless the election law is resolved. [[Intruder: You've described well.]] What kind of store is that? What kind of blackmail is that? Well, it's not a practice in countries, democratic states of Europe, the world, the EU. To blackmail these two countries by electoral law. The change of the electoral law is settled in another way, and it is resolved by the Croatian government, but by agreements, talks with allies, with partners, and not by this you know of some sort over the knee of the solutions. Because Milanovic has absolutely no solution for anything other than having parole and people who may be limited in some knowledge, and they may still be hardhearted, they accept it and think it's something that's very good, and they don't think about it anymore. Because politics you know isn't, it's not something that's just like that, everyone can deal with politics it's true. The Assembly can enter anyone, but that's right, but in order to be a laborant you need to know how to look through a microscope, so... So I know how to look through the microscope, Mr. Bull. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now if you know all the honors, but it would be good too... [[Intruder: Don't get Miro.]] that you're politically thinking and thinking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your speech, you're also talking about Mr. Rasputic, who, as I recall in December 2020, spoke of blocking BiH's candidate status, blocking the Russian path if the election law is not resolved. And now he's standing here with Milanovic, give BiH candidate status. So why, well, no one is against BiH's candidate status, so that's the solution. Well, you do actually, a lot of controversy is actually, you know, not credible. What exactly do you want? Where's your consistent policy here? So who more than the Croatian government wants BiH's candidate status. But to achieve this, certain conditions need to be met, and this was done in a political agreement signed in Brussels on 12 June by Andrej Plenkovic. And what did Zoran Milanovic do? He was in Madrid. He didn't talk to anyone. He's visiting Malta now. Why hasn't your President, Zoran Milanovic, visited Paris? Why didn't your Zoran Milanovic visit Rome, Berlin, London, Washington? These are your friends you have to influence. That's your president. ... He named you. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, Mr. Bulj, as far as the position of the Croatian people and concerns are concerned, don't worry. We care enough, and your concern this you worry about your concerns because you have a lot of work to do in Sinj and there you must prove yourself to be one mayor who cares for the interests of the citizens. ... /Intruder Bull:... /... [[You don't understand.]] And don't be evetefendy, don't be. And I don't know what to say to Mr. Grumoja anymore. He always repeats the same words, repeats the same words, insults Croatian diplomacy. I wish for my colleagues and colleagues, for the sake of honorable men, I resent you for insulting such noble discipline and the people who are responsible. Croatian diplomacy is proud and honorable, and what you say I will not allow, of course. I mean, of course you can talk. I will not allow arguments, so I will tell you that Croatian diplomacy is a prominent Croatian diplomacy whatever you think of it. You'd be a colleague of the bush you're a young man, it's in front of you however every man has a perspective and... According to the harmony of life, but you have somehow a nomenest omen. [[You don't understand.]] I would recommend the popular one, who says: “Speak wiser, not louder. The flower grows in the rain, not in the thunder." And so it is in your business, so it is in your politics. And I want to tell you there's no corruption at the Foreign Ministry. You've instrumented a colleague of Sabelak's. Yes Damir Christmas and Petra Juras are responsible and quality professionals, so everything is and everything you do, do and wait in judicial proceedings, and don't influence the work of the court with this policy from the pay phone. Mr. Sabelak means no corruption. It's been resolved long ago, but Mr. Sabelak has sinned against the Foreign Ministry code because he has committed a serious violation of his official duty. But here we go back to what the topic is today. With all these discussions that we have had since 9:00 p.m. and beyond, I would still say suma sumarum that they were good debates, that representatives who understand, of course they understand, who will never understand that from the point of view of Croatia, which is a responsible member of the European Union above all, where these two countries are and, of course, as a responsible NATO member representing an open-door policy which is the same NATO policy, so we consistently advocate open-door policies for all those countries of European countries that want to join and which meet these membership criteria. So that the accession of Finland and the Swedish Union can only be supported by both handles and thus strengthen the security not only of NATO, but also of Croatian security. These countries have also helped Croatia. It should have these indicators that are measurable. You know, you can't politicize it, and I'm so sure that Croatia, as well as other members of the alliance, sees its membership in NATO as a permanent guarantee of its own security. And of course, this continuation of NATO enlargement certainly strengthens and fully secure the Trans-Atlantic space of Europe. NATO has always been the Western security post of Western society. It will remain that way, and the safety of citizens will certainly be further strengthened. Especially by entering the Schengen area. What's important is to speak, to work in the interests of citizens not floscule, not confusion, not so generalization, but actually what this government does to make it feel like an ordinary citizen sees it. It is in the interest of a Croatian citizen, in the interest of social stability, economic growth, recovery in the interest of the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, by expanding the Allied area of common values, we are also directly strengthening our own security, and we can always stress that component of our own security strengthening. I am sure and I am convinced that tomorrow you parliamentary representatives will recognise the importance of the membership of Finland and Sweden and that you will provide support, that you will raise your hand to this historic strengthening and expansion of NATO and that we will show Europe and the world that Croatia understands, that the Croatian Parliament understands this moment that we are mature as a society as we asked in 2009 when we became previously of course. When we were looking for partners then it was very important to have partners with those countries that would support us in our achievement of the foreign policy goal that is NATO membership. And when someone spoke about Montenegro, Mrs Zdravka Busic just fantastically explained that Croatia means it for its own sake, its own security was important to strongly support Montenegro towards NATO precisely given the fact that the south side is being closed safely. And that Dubrovnik would never repeat itself in '91. We have also created a security space for NATO by entering the Adriatic, of course. So it is the Adriatic Sea, both Croatian and Italian and Slovenian, which means it has become NATO's sea and, of course, to separate Montenegro first from the influence of third countries, and you know which countries I mean. We now have with Montenegro, although the government is unstable and we have extremely good relations, I am sorry that we are only exhausted here on the issue of course of BiH which remains of foreign policy interest, the fundamental foreign interest of the Republic of Croatia and of this government, that we also talked about Serbia which, of course, and the position of Croats in Vojvodina, remains in the focus of our interest, and that no one looked back on Montenegro, Boka Kotorska, the cultural Croatian heritage of Boka and Kotorska, Montenegro, that no one was talking about the return of the school ship Jadran, that no one was talking about the marking of the Morin camp. Our generations don't know what happened in Maureen. I don't know if you know her, but last October 3rd, I joined a Montenegrin minister who was brave enough to mark the 30th anniversary of the camper's death. There were 364 campers, four were killed, 152 were defenders, the rest were civilians. Later, the abuse and torture caused many to die. And it's important to cherish the memory and for Montenegrin society it's important as a reminder so it doesn't happen again. We will be here in Montenegro, Montenegro, Montenegro will set up a memorial panel in Morinj, and probably in Kotor, and on the other hand we will place on Vis a memorial plate for their Montenegrin admiral, who in 1991 killed himself in September because he did not want to fight, target the goals in Dubrovnik, he did not want to destroy the Croatian people, and he said in his farewell letter that the Montenegrin people would not destroy a people who did nothing wrong to him, approximately like that. So there's Mr. Bull, you know, you have to work there permanently, it's a tiny embroidery, it's not passwords. Marking such events. Mr Adrian Vuksanovic, if he is not a member of the National Assembly, is a minister, he entered as Minister Adrian Vukasnović [[I'm here for the wars where you speak.]] is Croatian Minister in their [[Intruder: Dubrovnik.]] While I was in diplomacy, Mr. Bull, I came back in '91. years,... [[Intruder: While you were in diplomacy.]] a I've got a minute. [[Intruder: He will talk to me about Dubrovnik.]] I've got me back. [[Intruder: The day was not a war.]] I'm out, I'm out, you're rude and you're rude. [[Intruder: Agroprotein, agroprotein will speak to me.]] I'm up in '91. years back from Switzerland, and I could live there... And I do, I do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The status of the Croatian defender. ... [[I'm resigning to tell you where you've been in which trench.]] Are these the Croatian MPs? [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] Is this the Croatian Parliament? Is this the cheek and honor and dignity of Croatian parliamentarians? So you're acting [[You've directed the whole speech towards me here. What's, what's, let's talk, face it.]] You act like you're in some sort of pub, so you're here... [[We're going to face you and me somewhere?]] in the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what do you know about it? And what do you know what it was? [[Intruder: That it was folk, and now it's yours.]] You don't know anything, you say it by heart, and I don't go into yours, your grandfather and your father and aunt, I don't care, but it's very pathetic, beneath every level of culture. [[I know that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121717	Miro Bulj you get a third warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121718	So, Mr. Bull, you can be ashamed if you have cheeks. Thank you very much. ... I told you at the end what I thought of you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121719	The replica of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121720	I wanted to finish this and thank you for chairing in one tone, but Minister I don't know at all, I'm surprised to you. If you were so old, with so much experience, you'd have taken yourself as a right, maybe you could give me a lecture. Maybe I could learn something from you. Perhaps I could believe every story of yours, but one level with which you're going to give a hand to someone who or who is often called from the ruling majority is a hive, probably alluding to the fact that there is no school, and we all know why there is no school, he and a whole series of people like this. And I end up in a decent tone. Thank you for being here all day. The time you were away was probably one lack of arguments about Sabelak. And finally, I would ask you to comment on how a NATO member of the United States can cooperate. With something Turkey called a terrorist organization? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121721	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121722	Thank you very much, you resented me for being away, so I guess I was right, I only ate three sandwiches today, so I guess you don't mind me going out and eating a sandwich at some point. But I was watching you. So, while I was eating a sandwich, I didn't leave it. I came here to show you respect and listen to the debate, I stayed all day because it really matters to me to hear absolutely every speech so that I respect you. I didn't insult anyone here today at home, and I got very ugly words and still where and where, therefore, a certain level of controversy that was still going is mentioning and family etc. from your colleagues here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121723	Injury of Rules of Procedure Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121724	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been injured. I don't have anyone else to call. I was here all day yesterday. Today all day, I've eaten one meal and it's the least important. This gentleman next to me yesterday was in the Parliament of Mario Capula all day. So last night he went down to the fire field. At 5:00 a.m., he sat in his car, came back here, and I'm a witness for eating all day. One of the only cakes. So we can't have this particular man at your age of experience in the service you're acting on. Thank you. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121725	And you get a warning because this was your replica. The next replica of Nicola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121726	So I... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121727	Please allow the representative to...... Mr Kujundzic, Mr Kujundzic...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Kujundzic, let Grumo take the line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... Here you go, Thunderbolt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121728	So Mr. Grlic Radman had his exposure before anyone had given him any replica to begin with so that I would be better off lost twice than once found so the debate began. Right? And then you claim that we're the ones who don't know rude, rude or whatever. Then you came here at the end of 10 minutes to the Croatian defender who at 18 years of age went to war, was on all battlefields to give a lecture on the Morin camp. You've done well. If I were Miro Bulj, I don't know how you'd get out of this assembly if you were holding those who didn't see the war that you gave me a lecture on the Morin camp. Just so much, don't tell stories about unculture. You are the most uncultural man who sat and spoke here in the Croatian Parliament because you started your presentation with personal insults because you have no arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121729	And as for the arguments, you don't actually have the ears for arguments. You only listen to yourself, and you don't actually hear yourself. You are surprised when you insult many, when you use a word I never really use in my life and suddenly turn around, you come here to see President Jandrokovic and ask what you said. So you're actually not aware of what you're saying. To me, it's... Well, I do. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means you call me a liar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121730	Please don't kumunicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121731	So how are you not ashamed, Mr. Grmoya? You're not ashamed. I'm asking you. Well, you're a young man, you're an educated man, and I hope you act like one. You're really below every level. And Mr. Christmas, his daughter asks when she heard your debate here, saying, "Are you going to Zagreb? In prison." So as you are now on the line with Mr. Sabelak and I don't know who more, it's probably whether but you're watching this transmission watch. This is not good the way you discuss it and how you answer it, it's not good I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121732	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121733	Dear Vice President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not warned your colleague Grumo. He threatened the minister directly so that he could pass if he had said something to him. Well, we're here in the Parliament to talk, and we're not doing physical accounting, and it's really below all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121734	Nikola Grmoy's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121735	Article 238 has been injured. I didn't threaten anyone. I said I was a Croatian defender who'd been through the whole war and that someone was telling me so that I could go through with it. I'm not a Croatian defender, I haven't been through this whole war, I haven't seen the war. During the war, I was 10, 11 years old, so that option is out of the question and cannot be considered a threat. And secondly, telling someone that they're lying isn't below the level if someone's lying if you're saying that the verdict on Damir Sabelak isn't right. She's a powerful woman, and you're lying to the ministers, and that's what you should be told.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121736	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121737	I'm telling you, she's not a powerful woman. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121738	Minister, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121739	You said that today. ... But this is Mr. Grumpy's slander. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is slander.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121740	You've been warned. Mr. Minister. Mr. Grmoya, you received a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... You'll sue him for slander. [[Radman:... does not understand.]] Miro The Hood of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121741	Thank you very much. Look, I can't believe when I listen here that the Croatian Democratic Community has done nothing for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nothing. I don't know, I guess it's just that Franjo Tudjman and Gojko Shuska were doing well at the time, I guess. Okay. I remember the badgers at Herzegovina Bank, I remember trying to introduce self-government and the fateful Ante Jelavic and his campaign because I participated and there I got sugar and... I'm on insulin. [[You don't understand.]] I remember the message that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the problem of Sarajevo. Well, after 2000, SDPs were persecuted in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They didn't press against the members of the Workers' Front to file factory charges. No political action was prohibited by various provisions to the entire Croatian people's elite in Bosnia and Herzegovina. HDZ did that. Okay. And it's hard for me to hear here claims that HDZ didn't do anything and when we hear those claims from a paroled traitor and a high treason because tomorrow you will You probably won't be against this ratification. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]] But Zoran Milanovic actually said that traitors and high-level traitors only came from the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121742	Next line of Miro Totgergeli. And I'm sorry, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121743	Thank you very much. What Mr. Hood said, but beware on one side is so the two levels of help. It means political and legal for their position, which has been marred by the change of the Election Law, and on the other hand by strengthening financial assistance and various infrastructure projects. Croatia's government increased 100% this year through the Central State Office for all projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina can survive, live and work. So we helped the University Hospital in Mostar, the Croatian Theatre in Mostar, various other institutions from Herzegovina to Posavina, to Central Bosnia. Therefore, wherever the Croats live, they compete, send projects and they are satisfied with the help that comes from the Croatian government. So you should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121744	Time. Replica Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121745	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, in detail in your closing statement, you tried to explain to all MPs how important it is to keep Finland and Sweden in NATO and that this is also important for the Croats in BiH, because even in their individual debate, Grmoja said that it is important to convince our friends in Europe how serious the problem of Croats in BiH is and that only if we convince them that they will help us to actually solve this problem. And now how harmful it is when one day we tell all these friends in Europe we condition the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO in this situation when Russia has an aggression on Ukraine, when it threatens aggression and Finland how complicated it is and then convince them afterwards but we Croats have a problem in BiH, help us explain it in detail but obviously it is not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121746	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121747	Of course, of course. I agree, but you see the position of the Croatian people is not only a component and task, but you should see Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Its territorial integrity should be respected. It's a matter of national security here and security. If you have an orderly Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you have satisfied peoples and other citizens, then you actually have Bosnia and Herzegovina on your way to the European Union. Then who more than Croatia will support Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in both the European Union and NATO. We are now entering the Schengen and sharing the longest border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what you're asking, you know, you're asking a serious question. Here you have a lot of aspects and the issue of migration, etc. We therefore put forth this very great effort not only of equality, constitutionality, but of clearly complete security, in fact, of the institutional functionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121748	Time. I thank the ministers. We've exhausted the replicas with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote the cashier's terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121750	Dear MPs and respected MPs, I wish you a good morning, please take your seats. At the beginning of these major catastrophic fires on behalf of MPs and representatives of HS would show solidarity and give full support to the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County, especially the locals of Zaton and Rasline. I also thank the firefighters for the sacrificial work and for saving lives and property, soldiers and police officers who joined, but of course to citizens and locals who were also on the first lines of defense against fire. According to the latest information, the situation in the firefield is somewhat better, and on behalf of all of us, I hope that we will hear better news today and that the fire will stop. Secondly, I would like to inform you that today, so at the end of the debate, we would also have a point of choice, appointment and resolution because he met and the board, and today we would discuss these changes in committees, which is more or less a routine thing, and tomorrow we would start with a statement on the amendments, and then there would be a statement, a statement on the position of the club's representatives, so that at 12 hours then we would vote, and then we would end the work, we would not have a statement after that. Another information is important, so today we would do these two points that we would now unite if you were all in agreement, so at 3:00 we would start discussing the confidence of Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman. In case we're not done with this topic by 3:00, then we'll continue it after the debate on the trust of Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, and if it happens to be near the end, then we'll do a little prolonging, so we'll start at half four, but we'll see how things develop, mostly at this point the goal is to start at 3:00. That's what I had from the information, and now I'm going to do as I've announced on the basis of an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Committee on Foreign Policy, proposed that a joint discussion be held on the final draft of the Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Final Proposal of the Act confirming the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden. Do we agree to conduct a united debate Is anyone against it? [[- I'm a bencher.]] If not then, I will determine that we will conduct a united debate on these points. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Based on the above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure of the Law, which are confirmed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international agreements, shall, as a rule, be adopted in one reading, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Law. And I would now ask that on behalf of the promoter an additional explanation that the respected Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121751	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Office HS, you are presented with the Final Proposal for a Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Final Proposal for a Protocol Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland. Croatia actively participates in all policies and activities that contribute to strengthening the alliance and common defences by giving these laws additional support to the strengthening of NATO and our collective defence. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia clearly says that Croatia remains committed to the Euro-Atlantic perspective and strongly supports the EU-NATO enlargement process. It is just the expansion of new members that is one of the fundamental characteristics of the NATO alliance itself. NATO's open door policy is a contribution to peace and security in Europe, it is a benefit both for Croatia when it joined the alliance and for the new members, so two-way. The expansion of the security zone strengthens NATO, and new members simultaneously come under the protection of our common security umbrella. The collective defence of the population, the public and the territory of all members remains a fundamental task of NATO's alliance and is the fundamental purpose of the organisation's existence. Furthermore, the ability to evaluate, adapt and transform has made it NATO after 73 years. of its foundation remains the most powerful political and military alliance in human history. We are pleased to take an important step today on the Croatian side to enable Finland and Sweden, our allies, EU Member States to join our alliance and strengthen it with their membership. Dear MPs, we are witnessing that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed our security environment, and Europe and the whole world are in a very sensitive and dangerous situation. Although the annexation of Crimea in 2014 has already begun to collapse the international order so far based on the rule of law, the aggression that Russia launched in February this year is a direct attack on freedom of choice, democracy and international law. Blood war is fought on European soil, millions of people have escaped and taken care of in neighbouring and other countries, as well as in Croatia. With the conflict of war, we are faced with an energy crisis of enormous proportions. The EU is trying to change its supply routes for its energy sources, and the whole world is facing supply chains. Despite all the problems and difficulties ahead of us as a democratic state that still remembers all the horrors that we have been exposed during the great Serbian aggression on our homeland, we cannot and must not allow armed forces to destroy the foundations of international law and cross the borders of sovereign states. Therefore, our solidarity with the Ukrainian people is unquestionable. The government of the Republic of Croatia is helping within the limits of its own ability to provide refugees and to deliver assistance to Ukraine. In an extremely complex international political and economic situation, NATO membership becomes more important than ever. NATO is a guarantee of our security and defence, as well as a political alliance of like-minded people that defends freedom and democracy and helps us to overcome the economic crisis together and continue on the path of economic growth. The North Atlantic Treaty is an alliance of 30 countries of Europe and North America that have committed to meet the provisions of the North Atlantic Treaty drawn up in Washington on 4 July, April 1949. In accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty, the basis of NATO's task is to preserve peace and security in the Member States by political and military means. NATO preserves the common values of allies, democracy, individual freedom, rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution and promotes these values across the Aero-Atlantic area. Since its entry into NATO membership in 2009, it means 13, more than 13 years ago, Croatia has continued to confirm itself as a committed and reliable member of the alliance by actively participating in discussions between NATO-based allies in Brussels, as well as in all decisions made by the Member States there, Croatia makes its own direct contribution to NATO-led activities, thus achieving joint tasks and objectives ahead of the alliance. As a participant of the collective decision-making system, Croatia promotes its own views, foreign political and security priorities as part of NATO. In this sense, the alliance for Croatia is a means of achieving its own national interests. Croatia actively participated in the development of a new strategic concept of the key document alliance, which was adopted at a recent summit in Madrid, which outlines NATO's main tasks in the coming decade. Croatia has been and has been an active multi-year process of considering the transformation of the alliance. A process aimed at further strengthening NATO policies, resources and finances as an appropriate way to address future challenges. It is aware that its responsibility for its own complicity in NATO has further increased Croatia as one of the strongest advocates of open-door policy, or further expansion of the alliances to the southeast of Europe, as part of NATO. Furthermore, from the moment of accession to the alliance, Croatia has participated in all NATO's most important activities including Allied operations and a mission to support peace in Afghanistan by September 2020, Kosovo, Iraq, the Mediterranean and Libya until November 2011 in Libya. In the context of the presence on the eastern wing of the alliance, Croatia is currently participating in a battle group in Poland with 4 members of the armed now, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in command, and during this year 90 more members will be sent to Poland, while the next 2023 will be directed to Lithuania by up to 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, within the framework of the enhanced vigilance activity launched after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Croatia will participate up to 17 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Hungary. In short, giving its own contribution to NATO operations and missions, Croatia fulfils its international obligations to stabilise crisis areas, develops the ability of its own armed forces and transfers of previously acquired knowledge. Taking into account the increasingly complex security environment in Europe and geostrategic competitions, Croatia confirms its credibility as a member of the alliance and when it comes to current defence investments. Currently, Croatia is among 10.9 allies who have crossed the target threshold of 2% of GDP. We currently stand out 2,03% for the defense, and we are eight among the allies, and 30.49% of the defence budget stands out for modernisation. We are also 8 in a row among 30 member states. But to get back to our point. This was one gene to get to know the value of this organization. To contextualize it. The final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, which the Government of the Republic of Finland referred to the Croatian Parliament for adoption, is the government aware of the seriousness of the situation in which we live and the Russian invasion of Ukraine sees as an attack on freedom of choice, international law and overall European security architecture. It is every country's right to decide its own alliances and security arrangements. Although Finland and Sweden have cherished neutrality for decades, of course each country had its own definition of neutrality. Since 1814 Sweden has defined itself as permanent neutrality. Finland because of its longest limit to the Russian Federation since 1955. After the aggression against Ukraine, they realized that Russia does not choose funds and that it is possible for them to be attacked and territorially threatened, so the interests of the two countries to join the alliance are fully understood and acceptable to us. When it comes to NATO enlargement in Article 10. The North Atlantic Treaty stipulates that the parties may, by a unanimous decision, call on any other State which is able to promote the principles of that Treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area to access the contract. Any so-called state may become a party to the North Atlantic Treaty by laying down its own access documents with the US government. From the point of view of Croatia, which consistently advocates open-door policy within NATO for all those European countries that want to join and meet the criteria for membership, the accession of Finland and the Swedish Union can only be welcomed and supported. Croatia, like other members of the alliance, sees its own NATO membership as a permanent guarantee of its own security. Continuing NATO enlargement strengthens the security of transatlantic space and Europe. By expanding federally, the Allied area of common values is also directly strengthened by our own security, the security of the Croatian state. Furthermore, Finland and Sweden share our values, have highly developed industries, technologies, standards, strong and well-organised armed forces with strong sailors, and their accession will greatly contribute to the security and strengthening of the military preparedness of the alliance, and thus to the security of our country. Finland and Sweden have been involved in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme since 1994, i.e. various forms of co-operation and have been NATO partners for many years. Their armies have long co-operated with NATO troops, as well as with our troops, and also within the EU, Finland and Sweden are strongly in favour of strengthening the EU's security co-operation. Finland has a territory of nearly 340,000 km2 and stretches from Baltic to the Arctic. Sweden, with 450,000 km2 of space, also takes up a large part of Northern Europe. With their accession, NATO will greatly strengthen its northern and eastern bloc, the side of defence, round the security area in Scandinavia and the Baltic, and well-trained and well-equipped Finland and Sweden's armies will mean a significant strengthening of the alliance's overall forces. Finland also participates in NATO operations in Iraq and Kosovo, and participated in Afghanistan as well as SFOR in BiH. On the other hand, Sweden has also contributed to missions in BiH, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Libya and Iraq, and its armed forces, as well as those in Finland, are also characterised by exceptional equipment and high compatibility with the existing forces of the member states of the alliance. The government therefore strongly supports NATO enlargements to the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden and expects the Croatian Parliament to confirm the proposed legislation on their accession signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022 by authorised representatives of NATO member states. On behalf of the Croatian government, the protocol was signed by our permanent representative, Ambassador Dr. Mario Nobilo. I note that the protocols enter into force when they are certainly ratified by parliaments of all 30 NATO member states, some countries have already done so, after which formal calls are being made to Finland and Sweden to join the North Atlantic Treaty and set up NATO member states. I believe that the Croatian Parliament will give its first consent to this historic expansion of the alliance. Here, thank you very much, I saved a little time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121752	You stayed in the Minister's time, so everything's fine. You have 23 replicas, and the first one is an Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121753	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers in the opening interpretation of these protocols, you have said all the reasons precisely regarding the accession of Sweden and Finland and the only principle of reciprocity that we have as a Republic, but we must mention that this is not only an ad hoc solution, that this is not an ad hoc decision, this is one benefit for NATO, but also for the EU. We must note that Sweden has 10 million inhabitants, Finland 5 million people, that not only have a professional army but they have something that other NATO members do not have, and what we are discussing is reserves, so they have a large number of residents who have undergone basic training, have a strong military industry and we must not view this as just an ad hoc solution to the current security threat, but also one benefit and one strategic and foreign policy, but also the defence and security objective not only of NATO alliances but also of the EU. I think you as Minister of Foreign Affairs know best, and I'm glad that the Republic of Croatia supports this amongst the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121754	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121755	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, this is extremely important and you have said well that just by joining these two countries as I and in my address have said strengthening the overall, overall potential of the alliances, the security of these two countries that were traditionally neutral countries, and for their neutrality they had reasons, primarily historically political, when you look at the Paris-based, Vienna-Paris Agreement in 1814-'15. And when you look at Finland, it was 110. occupied from, from 1807 to 1917, and constantly led a policy of balance because of neighbours, eastern neighbours and the Russian border, which is a very sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121756	Here you go, fellow Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121757	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we have witnessed that Turkey has achieved certain benefits in its national interest, which has defended its national interest and conditioned the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO. What they're looking for is what they mostly get. Did Croatia have any international problems, does Croatia have any unresolved issues that could have been resolved in this way and along the way I will take advantage of the opportunity and I will ask you what happened and if it has ever been clarified where that drone came from in Zagreb and a few days after Croatia entered into NATO activity called increased vigilance, where was this NATO vigilance when the drone flew to Zagreb? Please specific answers, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121758	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121759	Thank you very much for that question, Mr. Honorable Representative Beljak. Of course, Turkey and Sweden and Finland, therefore, are resolving their open issues, so these are bilateral issues. Croatia has no open issues against Sweden and Finland. You have been following probably the reasons, the question and the action of the tourist group of Kurdish, Kurdish and terrorist dissidents and they have asked of course to submit the list, they have provided a list of these terrorists in Sweden or Finland and they have reached a certain agreement and have requested permission to deliver weapons, so that when it comes to this side of Croatia we do not have a single open question, on this side we have supported and support their entry into membership with the alliance. The drone is of course, is right you [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121760	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121761	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here I am interested because how long have I been directed between 4 and 12 months until these countries become full members of NATO, I am interested in this interspace so-called because no one knows what Russia is going to do, for example if an invasion occurs at that time until they become full members of this country, do these two countries have any guarantees in the context of their security by NATO itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121762	Thank you very much, Mr. Britch. Here are some countries that have already given it, in this one interregnum, and it is actually very important that this one achieves the ratification as soon as possible, the Law on the ratification of these protocols, so that these two countries enter this alliance as soon as possible and then would have the right of course to defend, but some countries have already given guarantees in this one inter alia, interregnum, first of all the United States, Germany and some other countries, so what is important is to speed up this ratification process in all parliaments, and I say even though this is a short time, we are really passing this Ratification Act, but already some countries have done it much earlier, so we are among the first ones. But I'm sorry that I didn't, Mr. Beljak, he's already gone, explained of course that Mr. Beljak, forgive me, Mr. Beljak, you hear me, the drone, the drone is, is you have the right to this course it was one challenge which is certainly the same. One, One Reason Launcher [[Intruder: Thank you]] to keep us up even more. [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121763	Minister, thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121764	Dear Minister, I am here in a pay phone at HS long ago pointed out that we are a member, that the Croatian member of NATO is a pact, that it is an EU member and that we have chosen our side and I am glad that we have stood firm behind our membership in NATO, and that is how it is done, means simply at one point when you have become a member of an association then you must defend that position. Unfortunately today the world is divided into new blocks, we have a new cold war, the situation is not even a great prospect, but it is no reason to question yesterday the expansion of the NATO Pact because it must be one of the imperatives and not to support the membership of Finland and Sweden in the NATO Pact. Shortly tell me your comment on the attempted blackmail by the highest state summit, I mean first of all the Pantovčak in the context of the entry of Finland and Sweden into the NATO Pact?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121765	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121766	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. Of course, this comment and remarks later on, later probleming this and bringing into the context of some other solutions has naturally damaged our reputation. Croatia enjoys its reputation in the international community precisely because of its co-operation, because of its expression of the principle of solidarity, rule first, and at the same time as a small country, we always and everywhere defend national interests, but national interests are resolved among allies, politely, civil, including, by talking, by promoting a positive, therefore affirmative approach when it comes to any problems or when there is a particular dispute over something. Thus, the way an unusual noise is created is not actually good Access. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121767	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121768	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, first and foremost, the situation in the past year has been a terrible war that has hit the world, Ukraine, and since the Croatian people have deep compassion and everything that is happening is certain that Finland and Sweden is a great influence of the forces in the strong family of NATO, here I would like to congratulate you on your efforts and finally I would like to ask you a question whether you are looking forward to the very support of the last president of Milan, who has shown the firm support of Finland and Sweden for joining NATO in his last visit, in the NATO summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121769	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121770	Thank you very much, Mr Deur, first of all, I mean every policy, serious policy, responsible policy must be credible and rest on the principle of solidarity and respect for respect. Here we have actually experienced the copernican turn of President Milanovic, who first problemed us and in public space has created us in fact and made trouble and made it difficult for us one, one perception as a country that has a problem with something, and has defined itself as a policy of open doors because we have already joined NATO, we have defined ourselves as, for standards, for principles that promote NATO's alliance. And of course there was processing, processing when the president himself realized, and then he sent, of course, a penitent letter to Jens Stoltenberg, who was the secretary general, and then in Madrid of course he voted for the acceptance of these countries into NATO alliances. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121771	Now will be spoken by MP Milanović Litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121772	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Grlic Radman, I personally believe that we have more benefits than damage to NATO membership, but my question today is about a drone that fell into the capital of the Republic of Croatia that we still know nothing about. He flew across the airspace area of two NATO member states, Hungary and Romania, you had a series of exhibitions, a series of statements that you sent in which you did not actually say anything, or we know anything more about it. What you have done as Minister in your work so far so that such things do not happen and that communication between Hungary, Romania and other NATO member states of the pact that are around us, surrounding us, which should be our security, which at that time did not show that we are a safe country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121774	Thank you very much, your question is of course important and it contributes naturally to this overall debate and to seeing certain problems. Of course, it can always happen somewhere and everywhere is actually a factor of man that can naturally happen and certain miss unexpected, but the fact that these countries have also recognised it and that the Prime Minister has just visited this important centre for his stay in Spain and is a reference to the monitoring of airspace and to determine the circumstances and reasons of the drone. Unfortunately, we have not received the right answer yet, neither from the Ukrainian side nor from any of the others where the drone came from, but of course it has threatened the safety of a NATO member country. What do you think would have happened was, fortunately, there were no human casualties, but there was one warning, one warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121775	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121776	Honorable President, Your Honor, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the security atmosphere. Finland has been neutral for decades but has now realised that it can no longer be because Russia has become a security threat and that is why 60% and over 60% of Finnishs support NATO membership, and the Finns have a clear reason for such behaviour. Finland gained independence in 1917, and before that, it had been under the patronage of the Tsar Russia for 110 years. The idea of the Krelj on the control of all territories that were under the Patronate of Tsar Russia has prompted the Finns to think about NATO membership. Is it possible the war beyond the borders of Ukraine is the next idea I will not tell Putin, but the Kremlin about the patronage of the territories that were part of the Imperial Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121777	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, of course you've opened a lot of, a lot of these questions. We live truly and, as I said in my opening address in a challenging world, therefore, a world full of challenges, but also in a dangerous world. So, in the 21st century, it was unimaginable that a country that is still a member of the council of this permanent member of the Security Council could attack this other sovereign state, and it was precisely the job of the UN as a universal security organisation of the Member States to preserve peace and ultimately if you take the Helsinki acts that say that borders are immutable and that sovereignty is respected, and even neutrality is mentioned there, so it was all actually the Russian Federation that insulted and did something that was unimaginable. We must now really look for an appropriate solution that is being promoted right here through a strategic concept that has been adopted in Madrid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121778	Thank you. Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121779	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that one of the tasks of important NATO is, in addition to the security of defence policy and economics, so the protection of the economic part which has definitely given Russia's brutal aggression to Ukraine to know, except that Putin has become the largest lobbyist for NATO alliance, because as more attacks so many countries enter NATO alliance, it is seen that one Turkish member, a member of NATO, because of the transport of cereals and all other economic important and important segments from Ukraine to other countries, and that is exactly the passage of Bospor, Dardanelli and the Black Sea, therefore the importance is seen right now, so that you give a little comment on the importance of NATO and in this economic sense, let's say, both through OECD and other segments, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121780	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121781	It is, of course, that this affirmative approach of these two countries which, in fact, is more the result of this very threatened security and because of Russian aggression that has caused one great instability in the world, but peace and security have no price, it is naturally reflected negatively on economies, supply chains, energy addiction issues, but this is more one, one reason why the democratic world strengthens those operational mechanisms and political instruments to isolate the attacker, in order to create all assumptions about the sustainability of the world's order, which rests on international law and we are making all diplomatic and political efforts to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121782	I'm going to be doing a replica of my colleague Busic now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121783	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, and my question will be very brief. Here we have discussed this on the foreign policy committee and we have all accepted and I hope this will indeed go unanimity. But this was preceded by a very big debate, and I would say one huge storm, which is how we should condition this signing. And I would ask you here if this debate was really necessary, which has really brought in a lot I would say unrest especially among the Croats in BiH, could she really, was it the right time for this and could she get any results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121784	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121785	So, the discussion of uniting those two questions, I'm not very good at...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121786	No, the debate that we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121787	Comrade Busic, please sit down, it's over, you said. A colleague or minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121788	So the question is, the issue of NATO and membership is therefore one issue and these two countries, there Croatia is absolutely looking at the part and observing it separately from any other issue. But the issue of the transformation of NATO itself, which once held West after the break-up of the bipolar system, was the Western European populace of a democratic society, he was once a military alliance, he is now more of a political military alliance and is precisely including these values that the EU has, of course, mentioned by Mr. Cappelli. Of course, it wasn't that necessary discussion if she was suggesting some other debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121789	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121790	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the first message of joining Sweden and Finland NATO is a political message, it is aimed at Russia. Second... This is also about real military capabilities brought by Finland and Sweden because we know that these countries have really invested in building their military capacities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although Russia gives a very bad impression in Ukraine and is not expected to attack Sweden and Finland right now, except, of course, we are witnessing cyber attacks, spreading false news, yet I am curious whether the allies will deploy certain forces in the Baltic region while the accession process itself is going on, and also to send a political message to Russia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121792	Well certainly, since the Ukrainian crisis or the Russian invasion, we still don't see the end of the war, or the invasion, of aggression, it's been going on too long, actually since 2014. in a stable way, and now it's actually eclectic after 24 February when literally Russia entered with tanks and soldiers on, into a sovereign area of one, an independent country that has put its territorial integrity at risk and we're looking here, we're looking for an appropriate response, but you can't really use a weapon, that's a big challenge for both NATO and the EU, but you can't use a weapon, otherwise we come into one, one cataclysm, and we're all, all aware of that. It is also important to include in the war diplomatic efforts and political and political dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121793	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121794	I thank President HS. Dear Ministers, NATO's open door policy on the one hand strengthens NATO's alliance, on the other hand gives security to new members, but also gives certain commitments. If we were members of the NATO alliance when we were attacked by Chetniks in great Serbia then surely the course of war would be different, then we were alone, but here we were thanks to God and the courage of Croatian defenders, so I want Sweden and Finland to join NATO alliance and be part of that organization in view of the situation in Ukraine and the possibility of working further. I ask you how you comment on President Milanovic's statement, and I quote that parliamentarians will be persecuted as the devil's sinful soul if we raise our hand to Sweden and Finland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121795	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121796	President Milanovic, if you have followed all his statements, etc., there has always been a turn and we can finally conclude that he has shown inconsistency. He finally calmly said that, of course, at these parliamentary deputies to decide on it. Therefore, the sentence, a sentence of pressure that is actually the legacy of the former Yugoslav communist regime, was no longer repeated. The Croatian Parliament is the largest legislative body, it is a reflection of Croatian citizens, you are sovereignly deciding in the interest, national interest, in the interest of the Croatian state, and if you remember the first President Franjo Tudjman said it is ours, our membership is in Western European democracies, which means both NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121797	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121798	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, so the Republic of Croatia is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121799	Just a second, pal Shashin, is that someone's cell phone doing something, something's banging, I don't know. All right, nothing. Keep going. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121800	The Republic of Croatia must have gone through a much more demanding and complex process of joining NATO in view of the circumstances in which the Homeland War, the release of the country, etc. and all these tasks were successfully completed and entered into the NATO alliance this is for sure that in some way we met these criteria, we had to simply adapt to all those requirements that NATO's alliance had set before us. But after all this, there was a time of a little migrating, and it seemed to me, like, almost 30 years of peace in Europe, and they just started to think that we didn't need the armed forces, and they didn't need it that much more. etc., it's expired. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121801	Yes, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121802	Obviously there has been a change in the paradigm, you know the bipolar breakdown of the bipolar system has also meant a new moment that psychologically opened up some new possibilities, opportunities for international law and democracy that will enjoy and the whole world and will actually respect the rules. However, the tragic, tragic breakup of the former state to which we are, of course, witnesses and we who were actually nowhere to be recognized because the instrument had Yugoslav diplomacy, had their diplomacy and 4 most important pillars, diplomacy, police, defence and finance, that we in such a one misunderstanding of the international community managed to achieve what we achieved invaluably and after 30 years of such great achievements, this is what all of us are doing, and everybody praises it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121803	Now they're going to be replicating a colleague of Bartulic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121804	The payer is included./... Honored NATO Ministers are not their own purpose, but the tool for members to actually protect and promote their own interests. That's how I see our NATO membership. You gave Turkey the earlier right to put some issues on the agenda because of bilateral disputes with the two countries. Well, my question concerns missed opportunities in the recent past. So, when Montenegro entered NATO in 2017, it is the neighbouring country with which we have a border dispute, Croatia has done nothing about the issue. So there were no political tensions between Pantovich and the Ban Courts at the time, and I consider it a big, big failure. We should have taken the opportunity then and put that question on the agenda. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121805	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121806	Thank you very much, Mr. Bartulica, and it's good to discuss all this. Of course this is, it is, we are actually contributing to a common debate and to the examination of all the problems, and it is possible that there have been certain situations and perhaps opportunities, but these opportunities will be compensated. They will make up for themselves because the international community is complex, there are lots of actors, lots of participants, you've been in foreign policy, diplomacy and very much of this you know there are no complex solutions simulated, for complex complex problems there are no simple solutions, simulated solutions so that as far as I'm optimistic because I know what's yet to come, for that we need time, conversations with their allies, with partners. All those problems that we have here that exist, we'll solve together. with our allies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121807	Thank you very much. Here you are, a violation of my colleague Bartulic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121808	Article 238, with all due respect to the Minister, you did not reply specifically. So I understand that the complex relationships in the world, however, this is a pretty simple thing. We have a dispute with Montenegro in Prelaka, and in this bilateral issue, we could and should have taken advantage of the opportunity when the country joined NATO. I don't think we need that great wisdom, it's one failure, you can admit it without... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121809	You're getting a warning from your colleague Bartulka, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated the Minister. Let's move on, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121810	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when Putin launched the aggression on February 24th, he used an excuse not to want NATO to reach Russia's border and achieved exactly the opposite. So now with this NATO expansion, it comes to the Russian Federation's border. It's a strategic plan to defeat Putin's policy. But with this defeat, not everyone will rest, so they will also criticise you and criticize you, and today you will hear a lot of attacks throughout the day from those still trapped in the policy of non-classification, from those who have defended Putin on public television, saying it is justified that he occupied and annexed Crimea, they do not seem to be at peace with the politics of the West and that Croatia is a member of the West and that it has defined itself, that it is classified with the free democracies of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121811	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121812	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier. You've been foreign minister, so you've made it all very nice, of course, but maybe here I'll use my colleague Bartulico for what he said. The border on Prevlaca is not questionable, the other day Prime Minister Abazovic was here, so I told him very nicely, or Prime Minister, and so, we talked about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121813	Minister, just a little please, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121814	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121815	I must warn you, so when you respond to the replica you have to answer to the representative who has set you up, you can answer with skilled verbal figures to others, but you must at least satisfy the form, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121816	Yes, thank you very much, this one I agree absolutely with what Mr Stier said, of course, and when it comes to this and Montenegro which today will be abundantly worded at 15 hours, and I can tell you that I am very looking forward to this debate because I delayed some diplomatic departures to Romania and the Netherlands today and yesterday, but I keep this important to talk about this, so of course we will also talk about Montenegro and our committed efforts to make up for this issue, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121817	Now, this has already been in line with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121818	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Grlic, therefore Turkey has made minimum demands in accession to Sweden and Finland, these minor demands you have called together as Turkey also calls them, which are terrorist organisations, so terrorist organisations co-operated with by one of the NATO members, so the United States in Syria in the fight against the Islamic state. My question is very simple, could you ask the question of the election law of the Croats in BiH and constitutionality? I know you will use the argument of bilateral relations between Turkey-Sweden, Turkey-Finland, but this is about the same people, the same people for whom it is a matter of days when they will disappear, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121819	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121820	Well, you know, but politics is, politics, the other is you know one I'd say petty trade that doesn't know the values and principles in, in a complex international community. This is actually about what I said, about Croatia's commitment as members of NATO, that any country that wants and has met the conditions could enter, into NATO. When it comes to BiH today, we will talk a lot about what we are doing and how we are doing and what we have done so far. First of all, we have highly internationalised the issue in BiH. Why is it so nervous, why is it so upset, because it's never worked before, because the dust has never been raised before, the dust that has to exist, and when it settles, when those problems are solved, then you'll know the configuration of the terrain, and by then you have to fight it, and we're working on it, it's a second process, and no, there's no blackmail process. That's important, no blackmail. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121821	Thank you, thank you, Minister. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121822	Mr. Grlic, if the Bundestag resolution for you is not a German stance then perhaps even this official, official request from Finland and Sweden for NATO membership is not official enough, perhaps we are discussing here without meaning, but if Bundestag's opinion does not represent a German policy, then HS's opinion does not represent a Croatian policy, which gives you a new dimension of the description of the handlifters in HS, and then I am not surprised, I can imagine what you think of Croatian citizens, especially those across the border of the Croatian people. What's the key to me, there was a way to fight it, there was no petty policy, there were petty people in politics and petty interests, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121824	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrov. Of course you have the right to your own position and the rhetorical figures as you wish, but you are not at all aware of what the resolution is, so you need to make a destination, there is an Antrag and there is Beschlussemfelung, so you need to come in and see actually what's going on, so here it's about the government that, you laugh and you don't even know anything at all, ask yourself a little bit, talk, did you call anyone in, in, up in Parliament in Bundestag besides having your own rooms And, and, and what, so there's a distinction... [[Just a little minister, just a little bit, just give it, just a little bit, just a little minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121825	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121827	I'm not gonna let this kind of behavior, grinning from the bench about something... Look, I don't know how well you know foreign policy and the work of Bundestag, you haven't shown me much knowledge about it yet... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, I'm a doctor of science for you from foreign policy and international relations, so I wouldn't really argue with you, but I'm not laughing when you're talking, and I could laugh. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, let the minister go, let the minister speak, and then you either replicate or in your answer be creative, but such an ugly laugh about something you're not an expert in is not correct. Here's my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121828	He's been injured. 238, the great experts Gordan Jandrokovic and Mr. Grlic want to convince us that the Bundestag declaration is not the official position of Germany, so if it is not funny to you we seriously need to worry about who is running this parliament and who is running Croatian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121829	My friend Grmoy, you're getting a warning, so I didn't even get into your metrics, I just told you that you're laughing inappropriately, so I wasn't talking about the metrics, and I wasn't talking about who's right at all, but I was saying that you're not laughing in an ugly way because you and tomorrow or tomorrow or now during the debate, and what will the council look like then I warned you about, so don't twist the the thesis. Don't twist the thesis. Injury of my colleague Cappelly's Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121830	238, the deception and insult of all of us here in a way that firstly needs to be translated that is no resolution and no protocol and they are not binding, it is one of the views of the German government because the German government, recently Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr Scholz, we know very well what relations are and what we will continue and as we will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121831	You gave your colleague Cappelli an explanation, but you also replicated so that you would receive a warning. Now we'll be back, you have 20 seconds left to respond to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121832	So, here Mr. Grmoya exists...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121833	Comrade Petrov, it was Petrov who replicated you answer to him, 20 seconds please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121834	Excuse me. So here, the German government has directed the Bundestaga to adopt a resolution on the deployment of troops to EUFOR means Althea in BiH after 10 years. The accompanying document and he's binding of course and Bundestag voted it individually, so individually, here is an accompanying document so it's called beschlussen fellung so which has no executive character, he didn't come from the government, he came from one, from one faction which is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121835	Thank you, thank you, Minister. Now it's my colleague Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121836	Dear Minister Grlic, in your presentation you strongly emphasized one word, the alliance, you also spoke about the partnership, so when we talk about our allies, so-called. And to our partners, we must refer to this document voted by the German Parliament. You're right to say he's not binding, but that's what the ruling coalition in Germany has voted for, plus the biggest opposition CDU party that's your sister's party. Today is Thursday, I ask you this was voted on Friday, why you have not already called for the German Ambassador's talks in Croatia and protested because in a very ugly way Croatia is calling in the document and directly accusing itself of separatism Croatian political in BiH. Why haven't you done it already, will you, and if you won't, can we interpret that you agree with this policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121838	Mr. Deploding, therefore, a democratic state, and you as a Democrats, do you know that there is an executive power and there is a legislative authority. With the executive authority, we have no problems, so we are meeting like, at the Foreign Affairs Council with the foreign minister who agreed to enter into the strategic compass our reference to the constitutional equality of the Croatian people in BiH. It's a strategic document of 47 cells, and on page 9 it's exactly that reference. Also, the Federal Chancellor Scholz is of that opinion. Therefore, I am talking about the recommendations, the recommendations of the legislative authority. Now that executive power is changing, it interferes with the legislative authority. But there is parliamentary diplomacy. What you're involved in, is there you found someone of your own who you could have sent this to, you did send a letter, you called someone, phone work or anything else. So I'm telling you that this has no effect knowing relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121839	Thank you very much. Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121840	Dear Ministers, first of all we should point out that we support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, but as my colleague also said, it is definitely a defeat of Putin's policy, so I wonder if you expect certain reactions from Russia to this accession, as President Putin announced. I don't know if I should repeat the Minister did he hear? Obviously. Do you expect certain reactions from Russia announced after the accession of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance? And the second question is very specific, have you spoken to representatives of Hungary, your colleagues, which is why the neighbouring countries have not been informed of the dangers threatened by a drone that has been flying over Hungary for almost 40 minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121841	Thank you very much for that, about that we were more of these instructions, of course we were from the very moment that was March 10th and it was one Thursday 3 minutes before 23 hours a night. So, there's been a certain gap with them. The drone was reportedly flying through Romania for seven minutes, 40 minutes through Hungary, and we're probably not on a flight, possibly not even they were able to see it, so obviously because as soon as the drone showed up. So we talked intensively and both the defence minister and so did the foreign minister, so I. We talked about it and, of course, we all agree that we need to be more alert, that we need to take more care of these dangers because until something happens, you're not actually aware of any possible problems. In order to counter some, we must therefore prevent some problems and that is what is important and what is adopted in NATO's strategic concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121842	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121843	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, are we actually at war? We must ask ourselves this question all together because the war, or war conflict in Ukraine, carries with it its consequences. The sanctions we imposed obviously did not endanger Russia as much as they refused us back and we have an extremely difficult fall ahead of us, and probably winter without Russian energy. But it's all just harder or facts. I do have to ask you, however, are mentioned by colleagues and colleagues here several problems or border disputes that we have with our neighbours and which we may or may not even say need to be highlighted during these discussions on the expansion of the NATO Pact. I'll just point out one more problem and ask you again. The Slovenian army is still standing on St. Gera. Are you gonna handle this or should I call it hunting company?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121844	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121845	No, you have to call anyone, we've been on the verge of a solution with Jansa's government, and here recently for Mrs. Tanja Fajon's arrival, which is just affirmatively looking at our resolution of the bilateral dispute, and as you can see, the result is exactly our diplomacy in which you of course signed 32 that it is ineffective, that it is underweight, that it is third-rate, etc., here's a razor of wire placed by the Slovenian government if you remember during the time that the Prime Minister was Zoran Milanovic, and that wire is now moving, it's gone, I guess it's visible, and I think that we should all volunteer or actually what happens is good that no one sees, and what someone thinks is bad, and yet it makes it appear to be a problem. I will be actively defending myself today for everything we have achieved in Croatian diplomacy, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121846	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121847	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, therefore we absolutely support Finland and Sweden's NATO entry, but we should look at the context in which everything is happening together. If Russia had not launched its aggression against Ukraine I am sure we would never have discussed this today and that somehow things would remain the same, or as they were before, but the context of Finland and Sweden's NATO entry means next, all Arctic states except Russia will be in NATO. In recent years, Russia has developed major military investments or investments in various military facilities in the Arctic. There will now be a different relationship of strength, whether at NATO level it has been considered that there will be both needs and that NATO will start to invest certain things in these Arctic countries only because of the balance that will be needed, which will certainly not be kindly seen from Russia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121848	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121849	Of course, it is a very sensitive issue when we talk about the world order, and then all the smart people and all the reasonable people of this world take care that the sustainability of the international world order is the only possible dialogue, with the only possible assurance, there are always different approaches. We now have a situation here that we are in a populous, bipolar world between democracy and authoritarian regimes. It's a fact, but it's actually a moment and one situation that's of course worrying us and we have to work and work on, always somehow when it's in good you know then somehow this one we all realize is one reality and that it's normal and we're not ready maybe for possible, possible challenges, some kind of invasion, in the 21st century no one expected it. So you're right, of course, when you're talking about the future and the expansion of NATO and influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121850	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121851	Thank you. Minister Grlic, you here with certain thought and verbal carnivores that a serious man cannot but laugh at are trying to say that the Bundestag declaration is not the official position of Germany. It would be the same if someone were to say that the declaration we condemned here in HS Russian aggression in Ukraine is not the official position of Croatia, so that is, that you can state it is not to be heard anywhere, in any of the best comedy. But what would I ask you about the benefit of Croatian citizens from you as foreign minister, what have you done in relations with Serbia that opens chapters and does not meet the obligations and is said by Minister Tomo Medved himself, what have you done about the Croats in BiH and the Election Law, and how have you exploited this international reputation and position of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121852	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121853	Thank you very much. Here you have actually overshadowed this one important and good one with this ratification, the Law of Ratification of the Protocol with one question that will come to, on the table at 15 o'clock. As for me and my diplomacy and that you, I follow you as you say you know this, I will remain Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, and it is better to lose you twice than once, therefore I hope that you will not be in the next meeting of HS because, in fact, you understand what I want to do, every day you are doing games and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you are involved in the judiciary, so I will ask you the question of where you're from, and for Mr Sabek, it means that you have certain connections and that you are in fact annihilating all those values and institutions that exist in the Croatian democratic state, so I will ask you to say goodbye to Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121854	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Whitey's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121855	Thank you very much. Art. 238, I would ask Minister Radman that for me coming from northwestern Croatia, I have never heard of that proverb, explain what it means "it's better to find him once than to lose him twice", which means, is that an insult or something, which is "twice lost than once found," I have no idea, I don't know... It's coming, please explain whether it's an insult or not or I don't know I've reacted maybe it's an insult. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121856	Comrade Beljak, colleague, colleague Beljak, please, just a little while, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Beljak, it was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure but you asked a question, it does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, so I will give you a warning, and this will later explain to you by the minister, I have never heard of it, but it is good, it sounds good. ... Let's move on, fellow Posavec the Guilty. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121857	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, starting with the premise and respect for the function of the Minister of Foreign, Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, I am interested in your, your geostrategic analysis of the situation ahead of us. We know it was 1995. Finland and Sweden have entered European integration together, have since succeeded successfully on the trail of years and even centuries of their intention to maintain military neutrality. This military neutrality became questionable at the moment of the aggression at the borders of Finland, when Russia's aggression towards Ukraine took place. What I'm interested in is, by entering everything you've tried to say, we're going to preserve the protection of the Baltic, the sky, the border, etc., what's going to happen to good neighbourly relations, what's going to happen to broken political, political trust between Russia and two new members?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121858	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121859	It's a good question of yours absolutely, and of course you're expressing one thing, through this question one of the relevant concerns that, of course, this doesn't make us all indifferent, of course. Otherwise, '95. Another has entered, Austria is, it is a permanent neutral country, but its neutrality begins at the doctrine of international law. Good neighbourly relations are, in fact, always what is being run out, meaning neighbourly good, so it's also in our interest to talk about Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans, which is always unstable, where there are always geostrategic competitions and third players, of course, that we, more than Croatia, are in the interest of stability of the Western Balkans. All, all tragic... which is the legacy of the former state's collapse, means both Serbia and BiH and Montenegro are making great efforts, but you must always have on the other hand which is ready to talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121860	And let's go to the last line, colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121861	Thank you. Ministers, as a representative at HS, I support the accession of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance. In that part, I don't have any reservations or dilemmas. But I ask you, as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, to pay attention to the Prime Minister that the Republic of Croatia cannot have two foreign policies. It cannot have two significant opposing foreign policy attitudes. It cannot before defining its foreign policy objectives and how no one will achieve them, and thus neither does the Prime Minister express his personal views and it is unacceptable for the president of the country to put his running ahead of the ore into an unpleasant situation and, in practice, almost an act. Such behaviour by the Prime Minister is a violation of the government's constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121862	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121863	Thank you very much, ma'am. Representative Oreshkovic. First of all, Croatia does not have two foreign policies. Foreign policy by art. 10 The Constitution is a government policy, and the operational body is the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I think we can agree there, so probably even the president of the state who was here seven years ago said when she was President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, I think that the memory of everyone serves us, that 90% of the meaning of foreign policy means the government is the one that determines, and 1%, etc., and that we should not be embarrassed in interviews with statements, etc. And actually the president forgot about it and actually he's doing it all together and he's looking for 50-50. 50%, it's a store, and that's why all the ambassadors are standing with us, and that's my core bussines, the rotation of ambassadors where we are now prisoners of his, in fact, stopping that rotation, non-cooperation in terms of diplomacy and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121864	Thank you, Minister. We've come to an end, so now get back to your seat. Now we'll call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most, two MPs, counterpart Petrov and counterpart Rasdic will speak, please welcome fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121865	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. History should teach us that in our area through centuries of political crisis, wars, changes, they are constant. And in these changes we do not follow and follow Croatia's primarily long-term interest, then the long-term Croatian people bleed. Every political calculation, every tiny soul, every petty interest in positions of importance for the Republic of Croatia, every confidence exclusively in the help of others has become in our heads for the long term. What can be more of an interest to the Republic of Croatia than the interest of its own people about the neighbouring country? What can be strategic for Croatia of greater interest than protecting the Croatian people as a constituent nation in the neighbouring country? Especially if we're learning from our people's history. You have missed an important opportunity as a sovereign NATO member to help, not only those who seek commonity and our help but to help the long-term and Croatian interests and resolve and assist Croats as a constituent people in BiH. But it's obvious. You agree with that because you do not have any objections to the Bundestag resolution where Croatia and Croatian leaders are accused of separatism, and we are being handed out packages. They were never ours, Mr. Grlic, the problem, the other peoples who wanted a partnership with us, we were the problem of people who were chosen as leaders of our country, and they couldn't fight for our interest. Our partner, friend, is an ally who will be able to appreciate both our interests and remember, there is no petty policy, there are only small people and petty interests in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121866	After his colleague Petrov, he will now speak to his colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121867	Our principle position is that any democratic state that wishes to join an association of which the Republic of Croatia is already a member, which meets the conditions set by the organisation, is welcome. In that sense, we have no objection to Finland and Sweden, if they meet the requirements, joining the NATO Pact. However, on the other hand, our primary interest is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian people as a whole, and today it is gravely and unjustly threatened, with the active assistance of our so-called. The German Parliament's resolution was adopted on Friday, and today we heard clearly that the German ambassador would neither call for discussion nor protest. And it's nothing complex foreign policy, at least Croatian is very simple, it comes down to a maximum horse bound where aga tells you to. Chats, servants, vases, that's our foreign policy. In the autumn, Croatians as the formal constituent people in BiH will be politically liquidated. The Bosniaks will elect political representatives for the 4th time will elect the Bosniak second member of the Komsic presidency, and it is likely that thanks to the electoral law that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, but there has been a change to fill the 1/3 home of the Croatian people, they will choose power without the legitimate representatives of the Croats. The Bosniak government will take over public enterprises in the territory where Croats are in the majority, reroute additional money flows leading to the new mass emigration of Croats to BiH who are already demographically devastated. In 4 years, the Croats will be much less and it will be much easier to repeat the same again. And what for the Republic of Croatia means to have for neighbouring BiH whose government has no legitimate representatives of Croats the best witness is the case when two Bosniak representatives in the presidency of Djafirovic, this great friend of Plenkovic, who sat on Vukovar and Zeljko Komsic when they wanted to press charges against the international court and stop the construction of the Pelješko Bridge. There would be no opening now where you would have paraded if Milorad Dodik hadn't vetoed the then Republika Srpska Assembly. Imagine the Republika Srpska Assembly protecting the Croatian Pelješki Bridge. Why? Because we had to rip something up somewhere and give it to Dodik. A thousandkm of border from BiH. With a country where there will soon be no representatives of Croats in neither the customs nor the police, and Croatia is a tourist country. So it's not just about the disappearance of Croats in BiH, it's about the medium-term unsustainability of Croatia, especially its, its south. In such a situation, the ultimate threat of the Republic of Croatia and the instability in the southeast of NATO's framework is a legitimate extension of NATO to the northeast to bring the situation to an end in the southeast of the common security framework. Croatia had every right to condition NATO's expansion by addressing the problem of a serious violation of the Dayton Agreement, whose Croatia is a co-signator and not implementing the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling. We're not looking for anything for ourselves that we wouldn't give to others. It is unfortunate that we have come to a situation that respect for this peace agreement must be forced to condition NATO's enlargement, but so. That wouldn't be a precedent. I've already been here for 10 examples where completely unrelated things were conditioned. The example of Cyprus, which is in September 2020, is sufficient. Cyprus vetoed Lukashenko's sanctions regarding Cyprus and Lukashanko and Belarus, 1,000km away, no direct but Cyprus conditioned the suspension of the veto when its EU partners take action against Turkey's activities in the Mediterranean in terms of oil and security research. And the veto is bearing fruit. Germany too, this Germany and other Turkish protectors have caved in and advocated harsh criminal measures against Turkey if it continues with the drilling. Cyprus accomplished its own. So, despite the fact that we have nothing against the expansion of the NATO Pact to Finland and Sweden, we felt that Croatia has a completely moral and political right to condition NATO's expansion through a solution to its burning national and security problem, whose solution comes down to respecting only the signed peace treaty and the ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court. The High Representative in BiH can resolve this with one signature, imposed on the basis of the Bosnian powers to amend the electoral law just as Croatians did 20 years ago by his predecessor Wolfgang Petritsch. It's a missed opportunity. It's mostly chat and vasala's fault, and we're where we are now, we have nothing to vote for. If there was an official connection between these two things today, we would say we cannot support enlargement until our partners show this minimum of goodwill and help change the electoral law in BiH, which they can or are more concerned with politically destroying Croats in BiH but are receiving Finland and Sweden in NATO. I don't think so. If the ruling in Croatia had connected these two things as first of all to the responsibility of the Prime Minister, but also that the President of the Republic persisted until the end and said in Madrid that he would call on the Croatian parliament not to vote, not to confirm this protocol until this burning Croatian problem was resolved, since we still had Croatian interests and survival in the first place, and only then Finland and Sweden, without the tightening of the vote on Friday. As the opportunity has been missed and the link has not been established, it is doubtful whether we should live in Finland and Sweden now, even though their downsizing before Turkey is considered embarrassing, embarrassing. These great moralizers, especially the Swedes, these superhumans, better than the rest of the world, the highest standards of respect for human rights and freedoms, the same people who, until yesterday, had been sheltered as political asylum seekers and had been declared terrorists overnight by Erdogan, will be extradited to Turkey for a certain liquidation. We see now that Grlic Radman calls them terrorists and the Kurdish Workers' Party and the Gulens, and where Gulen is, where is Gullen Mr. Grlic Radman, do you know where he lives, Gulen, in the United States. So they are hosting Gulen, and members of his party are called terrorists in the Croatian Parliament, Sweden is now calling them terrorists to be extradited to a secure liquidation in Turkey. So what are we talking about? That's NATO. The same NATO where a thousand kilometres of flying aircraft the size of a MiG falls on the capital of Croatia, God's transparency does not kill hundreds of students and nothing is known. Has anyone been relieved of that leak? Is it analyzed where the hole was created to patch it up in that safety umbrella? No, it's not. More about the details in the individual discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121868	Minister Gordan Grlic Radman has now come forward, entitled to 5 minutes as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121869	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, esteemed MPs. Mr. Rasludic, it's absolutely and well that you're involved in this debate, that you're sharing concerns, but I think she's a bit of an exaggerated nature, I didn't say they were terrorists. Of course, when we talk about.../incomprehensible/... but they're there like that, that's it. That's what Turkey said in all the conversations I've been taking part in, but what we're really going to do is, let's get this straight, actually, what it's all about in Bundestag. So this is actually about definitely two separate documents, an interlock, it's about a request, and they're brought on the basis of... The speaker speaks in a foreign language. And these both documents have two different, I mean, they're, they're, they're, they're different and they have weight and they're important and they have, of course, different procedures. And there's no such thing as, there's no clear predetermined rules and rules for dealing with individual documents, and that's, of course, up to the case. What is important to you, so what I was saying, therefore, is the requirement to vote on another document, the one about BiH came from the Bundestaga itself, so this is the basic document of this resolution on the EUFOR Althe military operation, so where they send 50 of their troops. It's basic, it was actually the only real debate. And this came out to mean, this is one of the accompanying documents that you're talking about right now and I guess about.../incomprehensible/... now I don't know what importance you give him, he's a minor because on these councils he doesn't appear like one. And on the other hand, here, watch out, parliamentary democracy and parliamentary diplomacy, so there's Bundestag, there's factions, there's your colleagues and colleagues upstairs, who's talking to who? Here is the only Mr. Cappelli who is chairman of the foreign policy committee, the committee called, however, there were conflicting views and did not want to go in writing, so it says parliament. Who's going to visit parliament? So there's this same group of friendships, like an interparliamentary group, so someone needs to talk to him. So Mr. Cappelli had before, I mean, he's gonna do it, he's modest so he didn't talk about it, the only one who sent this memo means where he expressed his concern, etc., so you can see what Mr. Cappelli was doing, alone, of course because he didn't have the support of the Committee, so those who were supposed to participate in it because the one who was the initiator of it, he was supposed to be here and in Zagreb, talking, etc., with his associates, and so on. I mean, it's, it's important, it's important, it's important, I mean, keep that in mind. I know that we, that the question of the position of the Croatian people to all of us is absolutely out of the question as, as it is not, that we are here, that this is our national interest. That it's the foreign policy interest of this government and, I mean, we're on the same track, but let's not spread defetism and some kind of, that's what I know, kind of negatively view it all. Look, in these 3.4 years, I mean what the Croatian government and I have been doing as Minister and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so far no one has done in the last 15 years. No one's ever done that. Look out, we,.../incomprehensible/... we have internationalised the Croatian issue in the international plan. Talks at all levels with our international partners are the latest issue in BiH at the Foreign Policy Council. Non-paper has also produced and sent Croatian diplomacy to the European Council of the EU. We have included a statement on the constitutional people in the EU strategic compass, which will, of course, reflect inevitably on the other main documents of Russia in the future. The organisation of scientific and professional conferences on Dayton, I do not know if you were present, we have strengthened the political and legal positions of Croats in BiH, unconditional support only to the demands of legitimately political representatives of Croats gathered in the Croatian National Assembly. And of course, there's a lot going on and there's still going on, quiet diplomacy is working, we haven't stopped. Well, I mean, that's our challenge, so our cheek and soul is in it all ours and where we represent. And secondly, if you let me just, it's not a pact, the pacts are gone, it's an alliance and we usually use the official Instead of official, so here's... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121870	Thank you. Let's go with the replicas, there's nine of them. First up, comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121871	Dear Minister Grlic. First of all, you have hardly offended President Jandrokovic, who is sitting behind you where you said that you are the first in 15 years to do something about it. Well, I'll remind you that Mr. Jandrokovic sitting behind you was the foreign minister at this time that you just claimed nothing was done, so you should apologize to him first. Secondly, the document was voted by all parties forming the ruling coalition in Germany, the SPD, the Greens, the Liberals. Plus your partner CDU, so the vast majority of you in the German parliament, you can't say it has nothing to do with it. Secondly, you yourself have said who creates foreign policy, you have listed the article of the Constitution, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now you are asking MPs from the opposition to write something to the Bundestag and react, and you are not to react, you must not direct, protest, or invite the ambassador to talk. And why did Cappelli write, not Jandrokovic? Because it was voted in the Bundestag. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121872	Thank you, colleague Rasudic. I see you're calling me, so just a quick answer. ... No, no, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So wait, wait, let me explain. Each, every government has its priorities. At that time, the EU and NATO alliance were to be joined. This was achieved during my term and then we also fought for the positions of Croats in BiH, but we were in a completely different position if someone who pursues certain goals and depends on all of these around to achieve those goals. Now that we have entered the EU and NATO alliance, from that position we can fight a little harder for the Croats and we are doing so and that is what colleague Gordan Grlic Radman is talking about. Don't worry about our relationship, and my colleague Cappelli is the first level, and if I have to react, because I'm going to Germany at 9 months and we're going to fight very hard for the interests of the Croats in BiH, but the situation is very complex, you know that, that could be solved by 20 or 30 years ago, everyone here has their own small, clean or dirty interests and in the West, so we're not sheep that we don't understand. You know who supports Serbs in BiH, you know who supports Bosniak Muslims, and the West is divided around this support, and there is a key thing why Croatia is struggling so hard to defend the interests of Croats in BiH, let's be realistic and objective. I apologize for taking my time, but since I was called, I had to defend myself. A colleague Milanović litre of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121873	Dear President of the Assembly, I don't know if you've responded to a replica or a colleague of Radman's, I mean, decide who, who, who's responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121874	My colleague Milanović, a colleague of Milanović litre, I was twice called by an MP, I may have gone a little too far, I apologize if I was wrong, but you must understand me too. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121875	What the president of HS said was true. I told you exactly that this historic context and Croatian membership in NATO and Croatian aspirations in the EU, but that, of course, the issue of BiH has always been addressed, but most of all it is the fault of the first government since 2000. which allowed the actual abolition of the amendments to the so-called Petritsch’s amendments and Barry’s 2002 amendments you're a witness. I remember that after entering the Herzegovačka Banka, I was one of the initiators of the Federation of the Associations of the Croats from BiH, I don't know where you were then, and I know where I was then, I remained that way in continuity, so I worry about those levels where I can when it comes to the position of Croats in BiH because I'm also interested in it because I, I have a family downstairs and it's my homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121876	Here you go, pal Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121877	Thank you very much. So I see that whether or not we are, I have a document and the agreement was on the Committee on Foreign Policy to send the document to my colleague Roth, president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, in which it is in some way the matter. He was translated into German and our ambassador, an ambassador to Berlin, delivered that letter seven days before any debate in Bundestag and any decision-making. The resolution was about Althe, so sending 50 German soldiers to BiH. The resolution did not refer to this document. It was through that resolution that discussed it. In this letter, we made it very clear, among other things, that Doris Pack was a German rapporteur on behalf of the European Parliament and we mentioned the declaration of BiH in this House in 2018 and everything else that we made very clear to the importance that what they think in the German Parliament will come to the question then and to the Dayton Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121878	Thank you, Comrade Cappelli. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121879	Thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli. I'd just line up, so I have a whole transcript of all of those because I was interested, I don't know, I think how much you were interested, so you should, in order to actually have insight into everything we have, we have to have all the information, we can't just know the general resolution, the resolution and create noise in space and deceive the public. So what we're following and what we're talking about means we know where we are and we know the power and, that accompanying document that you want me to do now, I don't know how to give some importance like it's the central question of this world order and, therefore, the international community. So as far as the CDU is concerned, they are, so it was a vote for this first document which was, which also has the executive power, so the executive power on Althea, it was an individual vote. As far as this second accompanying document is concerned, it was fractional. But we know here that CDU representatives spoke about the constitutional peoples and the issue of sustainability of BiH and the position of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121880	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121881	Dear Minister Grlic, therefore you talk all the time about some silent diplomacy, but every policy and every diplomacy is measured by the results, the results of your diplomacy are zero, so when we talk about protecting Croats in BiH and when we talk about amendments to the Election Law, when we talk about meeting the criteria set out in Chapter 23, so by Serbia where you break and a valid government decision, because the commission to monitor the implementation of the criteria in Chapter 23 does not meet, and should meet according to the government's decision four times a year. It's your silent diplomacy and that's your score.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121882	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121883	It's just your opinion this whole time, not all the time, and the other thing you're saying is that, that the results are zero, so of course when you don't know how to count from zero anymore, so you need to be directed to ours, our achievements, I'm going to present it to you today in three hours Mr. Grmoja and you'll see that you don't really understand achievements and how you think that all of this is normal, how you don't share wages, you don't provide security, how you don't deal with funds, how you don't go around the world where you should be, but you're just criticizing us and nothing, you're expending us with these unnecessary discussions where we're wasting time instead of acting and that you're polimising on one level that you're supposed to be with arguments, so all the public and it's good to actually understand who's actually doing what you are doing in this country because that you're actually leading to the state that I's not going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121884	Thank you, thank you, Minister. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by your colleague Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121885	He's been injured. 238, if my father did not participate in criminal conversion and privatisation as a communist power, if I do not deal with funds like HDZ's, so that they are arrested by the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not mean that I cannot discuss this issue, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121886	A colleague of Thunderbolt's, and why do you mention your parents? ... You mentioned it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do this. ... I'm warning you don't do that, don't do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're getting a warning. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121887	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I want to ask you first and ask you to explain something to someone who doesn't want to hear you, and he doesn't even care, but I want to ask you something else. To explain once again what you and this government are doing in this time for the Croatian people, for survival, for constitutionality and what you inherited from the government of Zoran Milanovic, in which you found a situation of foreign and Croatian politics. I'm sorry, but I've never seen Mr. Rasputic, I apologize if he wrote anything on behalf of his former Prime Minister's friend, a possible apology, but here, please, if you can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121888	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121889	Thank you very much for that question. Of course you missed the big...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121890	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On a colleague of Deura's or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121891	Yeah, but here's the general. The Honorable President has been injured in Article 238, here we have been discussing for the last hour what, the subject of Sweden and Finland, and you are the chairman I have at 3 o'clock an important topic where we will discuss the potential impeachment of Minister Grlic Radman, or our request, we are talking here today about a completely different topic. I think it went completely wrong and I think this is now entertaining the people with a topic that's not on the agenda right now. I'd like to ask you to bring order to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121892	My colleague Pavilichk is very often, it is difficult to draw a line between what is the weed, and what is little on the side, so I ask you to take this one and me as chairman. I'd rather have a discussion only on this subject, but as soon as someone touches and mentions ratification can talk then and much wider than that. Well, I'll appreciate what you've said, and I'll call the MPs, and we'll stick to these two points of the agenda now, and it'll be afternoon, and then we can analyze the work of the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. My colleague Deura's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121893	Mr. Deur thank you very much, here is what the president of the assembly said, of course, that there is a certain discontinuity, namely all HDZ governments are always boredom, so if we were to start a natural issue and the position of the Croatian people, it would always mean change, when new governments arrived that did not have that feeling and sensitivity, in fact, to address the unequal situation of the Croatian people in BiH, then we had actually a permanent break and a stalemate. This was the case in 2011, so you remember that President Milanovic celebrated his victory or voted and supported him, and he wanted to abolish the same votes to Croatians in the BiH, and I guess because of tax evasion, etc. So, and in the end, all of this tells you how abandoned that question was and how much in fact every new HDZ government is raising awareness of it, and now it's a good time to finally get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121894	Now it's Comrade Stier's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121895	Mr. Minister, you are leading a policy that requires equality for the Croats in BiH, you also mentioned a strategic compass. It is clear that there are voices in Germany that oppose it, which criticise you for it. They also brought a declaration to the Bundestag where you're being criticized, but then it's a paradox that they're accusing you of taking Berlin. So, Bundestag, or by adopting that declaration, and we knew that there are such forces that oppose you, criticise you, and former foreign minister, former President Mesic for this policy, they didn't get a declaration from Bundestag, you have criticisms from Bundestag because of the policy you're leading, but then here from the ranks of the opposition criticise you for being a vase of Berlin. Well, that's contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121896	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121897	Thank you very much, I think our interest in BiH is not actually made up of some, some conversation or with European officials, but rather of concrete effects. I'm in BiH all the time. I only speak to everyone in the interest of Croats in BiH. Here, I invite you to the 20th to St. Peter's. Ili is in Bugojno where Croats are unfortunately a minority there and I want to talk to the mayor of the municipality about the position to have the street names back as they were before, to encourage them a little because it's very important. This government has taken over, you saw that we have established a lot of consulates in BiH, and the next is Oresje Posavina and we will have a consulate in Orash in September. So here's one contribution, and I'm not talking about financial assistance to the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121898	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121899	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I've been planning on talking about Sweden and Finland, but obviously this isn't our topic today, so I'm going to continue in the context of my colleagues. No matter how much you agree with your colleague, Pavlichek...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121900	Well, now it's yours, your colleague has now called for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121901	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121902	Well, now your colleague has asked you not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121903	Yeah, my colleague said that, but obviously there were already two replicas you didn't absolutely warn one time about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121904	I called, but I thought you were consistent, but okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121905	I am consistent in that context in which you are consistent to respect the rule of the Croatian Parliament and not to turn away from the topic discussed. Obviously that's what this is about, so I'm going to quote you this time, every government has its priorities, every government can correct itself in that way towards the foreign policy that is currently focused. HDZ and all governments have never had a focus of BiH or Croatia in BiH so far. Croatians in BiH used Croats in Croatia primarily as an extremely specific and quality pool of people who came to help Croatia during the war, after the war or in the transition period of this EU entry, and continuing with this government, with the minister and with all decisions made by the EU And to Bundestag. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121906	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121907	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable Representative. Of course, you have the feeling, and I have the facts, and what has been done for the Croats in BiH can only be thanked to HDZ. I'm telling you because, because I, I'm going, I'm going among the people, I'm talking to people and I don't know where you've been and who you've talked to, of course you've always got those who are unhappy about this or that, but as far as the Croats are concerned, I can tell you that I'm always going to the high forehead, that everything I'm doing is honorable and dignified in their interest because it's our own interest and I wouldn't spend a lot of words here, but look at a little bit of the work, and you don't want to see it, I'm very sorry that you're cut out for that information, that you don't recognize it, and we could work together on it because it's a national interest, and we're having a fruitless debate here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121908	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121909	Thank you, my dear. Art. 238, counterpart Grlic Radman, your contribution of Croats to BiH and Croatia is eviction, eviction from BiH where today only 15% of Croatians and emigration from Croatia, these are HDZ policies, foreign policies and policies of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121910	Col. Milanović litre, you get a warning, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121911	President-in-Office of HS, Minister Grlic Radman, with his statement that we can primarily thank the HDZ for this position, as the first one defames all other parliamentary deputies, so HDZ exercises power, behaves in the Croatian state, and the number of Croats currently in BiH is how many ministers 330-350 thousand means 45% of pre-war numbers, that is the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121912	Coliček, also a replica, has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. A colleague of Barbaric's reported the same for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121913	Your Honor, Mr. President. In 238, the difficult position of the Croatian people in BiH, although not a item of the agenda, is used for internal political opposition here in this assembly, which does not contribute to us at all. Whenever we have been a part of these disputes in recent history, it has always cost us, has always broken and broken on us, so he would ask his colleagues, today we are discussing NATO, this afternoon we will have a little more time to tell the facts and everything else, not to collect cheap political points at the difficult position of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121914	Comrade Barbaric, you yourself are aware that you have also replicated, so you also get a reminder. And my colleague Vidovic answered, didn't he? You gave up, okay. [[I've given up.]] Then we move on, now the minister will respond to the replica of his colleague Milanović Litre, no, or have you, have you, have you done it, have you, have you... Yes, it is, it is. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's move on, colleague Busic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121915	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really be following this schedule of ours, so I would discuss the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. However, as we all have somehow concentrated on this subject of BiH, or on, rather, the Antrag, I will call it what it is called, it is called Antrag, which is a recommendation from the Bundestag. I, I'm sorry that our colleagues who laughed a little bit about his German or how he wanted to explain it in German, I want to say really next, I followed everything in German and now I'll dare say I understand very well German, I know what was said, which was a debate that lasted only 30, 32-'3 minutes. The whole debate, a debate that lasted, decided to send German soldiers to BiH That decision came from the government. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Busic]] And this came from one intercessor. [[Intruder: Comrade Busic, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121916	Comrade Busic, thank you, the time has passed long ago, but really now this is about BiH again, we will talk about it from 3 hours away, let's now talk about what is equally important and has its security and political elements so that we can please come back. Here I support my colleague, Pavliček, even more strongly now, we stick to this topic, there will be time for these other discussions. Here are the ministers, the answer to my colleague Bušić Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121917	Here I agree, I also pointed it out at the beginning so that this is Mrs. Busic said it only confirms the truthfulness of my allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121918	Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121919	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we have listened to the president and former prime minister here all the time saying that by blocking the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and Finland to NATO, we can contribute to the better position of Croats in BiH. You spoke earlier, and I would like you to repeat that how and how can our blocking of the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO contribute to a better position of Croats in BiH? And can you also comment on whether the better position of Croats in BiH contributed when former President Milanovic attended support meetings for Zeljko Komsic? I would also ask you if the antigonization of Croats and Bosniaks with his statements that Bosnia is "piece of shit", that how, as the first perfume then soap contributed to the same situation, a better position for Croats in BiH? Also commenting on whether the Urban Movement Mostar has ever contributed to a better position for Croats in BiH at one point?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121920	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121921	Thank you very much. Of course, I told you that you cannot, in fact, handle certain issues in the international community and democratic countries today by blackmail. This has only actually made our position worse, and yet so much ahead of us, in meeting our foreign policy goals, so these are two separate processes, so the accession of Sweden and Finland is one part, and this is about BiH, we follow it with equal dynamics and equal importance. Of course this, when we talk about this accompanying document and the one who started with it, we have this transcript in his, where the man said, this gentleman in Bundestag who encouraged there, there, this document that you call a Colloquial resolution he referred to as racist statements of someone from Croatia, and you know who and who was saying. Therefore, if it were not for such a statement by President Milanovic there would be no such accompanying document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121922	And the last replica of my colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121923	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you're lucky to have two diplomats who are greatly defending you, Parliament Speaker and former Deputy Prime Minister Davor Ivo Stier, who at least tell you to satisfy your form. Unfortunately or fortunately our fellow speaker of the assembly I very clearly told BiH who supports Serbs, who Bosniaks, but is not who you Croats are, and since it is your core bussines her your core bussines rotation ambassadors, it is not, it is not even you have to do, it is probably your assistant or director of the administration, your core bussines is to improve the position between the Croats between BiH. Who please taxing, one, two, three, four supports the change of electoral law and what have you done in this area, what countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121924	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121925	The change of electoral law is supported by all EU member states. BiH wants to gain candidate status. Therefore, when you look at 14 priorities and criteria that BiH needs to meet, one of these is a comprehensive reform that includes limited constitutional reforms and changes to the electoral law. That's what you should know. It is a major contribution from the Prime Minister because it means it in one important document that is the strategic compass in the conclusions of the European Council, so the references are related to equality and constitutionality. He organised a meeting on June 12th with Charles Michel of the European Council with the leaders of political parties in BiH to just pass the agreement that speaks of the acquisition of candidate status as one, as a prerequisite, it is essential that BiH become an institutionalally functional country, including the change of electoral status. So all EU countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121926	I thank the Minister, you can return to your post. He will now speak on behalf of the HSLS and Reformist MP Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121927	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to be back to the essence of the matter. It's the accession of Finland and Sweden to the NATO alliance. I'm going to look around maybe in the end and on these problems we've heard here, but I'm not gonna make it up to you. What is important, the deterioration of the security situation caused by the Russian invasion in Ukraine has prompted so far military neutral EU members Finland and Sweden to reconsider their security position in order to achieve the additional security and sovereignty of their countries due to the uncertain policy of Russia that they share a part of their border. Since it is a major change in the current foreign policies of these countries, both countries have conducted a public debate to gain the majority support of their citizens who believe that NATO membership is significantly strengthening their own area of operational action and strengthening the defence and security potential of Baltic and Northern Europe. This is after the Russian invasion of Ukraine a major step towards Sweden and Finland because they gave up their traditional military neutrality and demanded NATO's accession to the alliance. An official invitation for NATO membership was sent to the NATO Summit in Madrid on 29 June, and on 6 July, Sweden and Finland signed a protocol on joining the NATO alliance, which must then be confirmed by all members of the alliance and so Croatia has our assembly in it. Once he becomes a member of the NATO alliance, Sweden and Finland will be able to rely on the collective defence clause set out in the NATO statute. A new NATO strategic concept is also supported at the Madrid Summit. In the previous version of the 2010 document, Russia was described as a strategic partner of the alliance, while now after the aggression against Ukraine was marked as a major security threat to NATO members, which changes the entire strategy and defence doctrine of the alliance. As a result, the accession of Sweden and Finland to the alliance is particularly important for the NATO alliance as well as all its members because NATO is a collective security organisation, so the higher the level of security of the entire alliance is involved. The accession of Finland and Sweden contributes to a significant increase in the defence capacity of the NATO Pact because both countries have a respectable armed force and a very modern military industrial structure. Their NATO accession to the alliance will become a unique defence alliance ranging from Norway to Turkey's only hole will remain in the Balkans for a while. Finland and Sweden will fully become NATO-controlled zone, especially in Sweden, to achieve a depth of action that will greatly facilitate the defence of the Baltic states, which are currently the most endangered members of the alliance. Finally, perhaps most important for our interests by entering Sweden and Finland into NATO, the alliance will significantly increase the possibility of military technical cooperation with other members. Croatia is particularly interested because we have had excellent cooperation with Finland in this area, and cooperation with Sweden has weakened little, but now it is an opportunity to re-enhancing it on defence and security issues. Russian aggression has shown that the European members of NATO do not have sufficient quantity to effectively cover the border with Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. The war in Ukraine shows us from day to day that numbers are still as important a factor as the equipment of the armed forces. Therefore, the accession of Sweden and Finland undoubtedly strengthens the alliance itself and thus indirectly our security of the Republic of Croatia. That is why HSLS welcomes and supports the accession of the Republic of Sweden and Finland to the NATO alliance. What you would actually refer to is perhaps what we heard in the replicas of the past and in the statements of the BiH issue, as well as Montenegro. We've heard here that it was a matter of solving Prevlaka. I think the strategic victory of the NATO alliance was the accession of Montenegro to NATO, and the issue of Prevlaka and these can be addressed through bilateral issues. Why? If Montenegro hadn't been admitted to NATO, the alliance of cracks in the eastern wing of NATO would have been far greater, and that opportunity would have taken advantage of what Russia's foreign policy and Serbia are currently trying to destabilise Montenegro and change the relationship of forces in the region because of this, access to the open sea, in fact, to the Adriatic and the Mediterranean. I think that the planned visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia would have been quite possible to neighbouring R. Serbia if there had been this crack in the NATO alliance, so I think that the accession of Montenegro is one of the strategically better decisions of the NATO alliance and what made it possible for the entire defence alliance to be compacted to deal with issues concerning our border disputes of the electoral law in this matter by bilateral issues within the framework of EU accession and that this should be the basis of policy. The NATO Alliance should be singled out, the NATO Alliance issue from the EU issue and through these tools we need to address these issues. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121928	The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and on behalf of him will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš and the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. First honorary representative of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121929	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The idea of NATO as an organisation itself says it guarantees the freedom and security of its members through political and military means. In a political sense, NATO promotes democratic values and enables members to consult and cooperate on defence and security issues in order to address the problem, build trust and prevent conflicts in the long term. In military terms, NATO is committed to peaceful conflict resolution, but if diplomatic efforts fail, they have a military capacity to manage crises. And there comes often a provision of the mentioned article in the first place. 5 on the common defence of all Member States. Unfortunately, and this unfortunately cannot stress enough, the war in Ukraine reminded us of this security network that NATO has provided, and it also reminded Finland and Sweden, which they decided to join NATO after years of hesitation. As residents of a NATO Member State, I am pleased that the alliance in which we belong is joined by Sweden and Finland. These are two countries that are often our role models in various issues. Developed democracies that are dedicated to human and civil rights and freedoms, the developed success of an economy that adapts to energy transition and the preservation of the environment. These are the countries that perhaps the most successful of all combine human freedom and dignity with the social state, and this combination of liberal democracy and the social state is one of Europe's great contributions to our civilization. Finland and Sweden, of course, are also in military terms developed countries and are in line with NATO standards. Because of their political and military consistency, those after they have submitted their application for membership, this is the path they are taking in an accelerated procedure, and that is good. A NATO candidate can hardly be more prepared than Finland and Sweden. Finland and Sweden deserve NATO-guaranteed security, and NATO itself will certainly be much stronger with those two members. In this accession, everyone, both NATO and the old members and two new members, as well as the Baltic Sea region, who, unfortunately, has been found in a significantly worse security situation due to Russian aggression. Finland and Sweden have been working with NATO for 30 years and the government has agreed that partners are capable of achieving an international security system. They have been members of the Partnership for Peace since 1994 and their staff has participated in NATO missions in Afghanistan, the Baltic and Iraq. What is expected of joining 2 new NATO members is strengthening its eastern wing and total collective defence in Northern and Western Europe. At this point, perhaps the most significant change is a serious extension of NATO's border with Russia. That line extends by more than 1,300 km. Along with this, NATO's presence in the Baltic region and the Arctic circle is significantly increasing. A special fear of Russia after the invasion of Ukraine, a sense of the Baltic state and the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, in which Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia have certainly been strengthening their sense of security since 2004. The eventual defence of 3 Baltic states from Russia would probably demand the establishment of NATO bases in Finland and Sweden, which, of course, will be a red cloth for Vladimir Putin and remains to be seen as the part further develops. It is not to be ignored nor the fact that Russia has significantly invested in military infrastructure in the Arctic, and this accession strengthens NATO's counterweight in the region as well. With Finland and Sweden entering, all Arctic states will be members of NATO, of course, except Russia. What there is no doubt is that the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO is the most significant geopolitical consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. If it is true that one of Putin's main goals was NATO's weakness, it seems to have happened quite the opposite. Since he's gonna take that hit in the middle and in the long run, I'm afraid that's what's left for us to see. What we know, and what I stress, is that the Centre and GLAS Club will support Finland and Sweden's NATO entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121930	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, they will now speak... Oh, I'm sorry, I skipped, I'm sorry, my bad. Now for the rest of the time on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121931	I thank the Honorable President Reiner, don't worry, it happens to the best. So in the replica, the foreign minister said that the government, or the state, has one foreign policy, that it is known to everyone, which is the one that advocates and promotes and talks about by the government because it says so in the constitution. The foreign minister was wrong, so according to the constitution, the government can indeed lead foreign policy, but in the context of its powers, while the current practice ignores the fact that the constitution also requires that foreign policy-making, co-creation of foreign policy, the president of the state and the government must cooperate and do so together. The way the process of co-creation of foreign policy is going on is not known, no one has ever seen it, and neither is the law nor the constitution. All this is happening if any consultation is taking place, and so is the choice of our diplomats, without the ability to see and control the public, and we don't really know whether public interest is being protected in these negotiations and political outwittings, or whether it is raising the daily needs of individual officials and their political parties, all of this is very damaging to the Croatian state. In the past experience in the conduct and behaviour of the presidents of the state and the Prime Minister, it cannot be concluded that there is indeed one single foreign policy, nor can it be concluded that these two hills adhere to previously agreed views and values, which in itself constitutes evidence that the government does not exercise and does not perform as it is in the constitution and imagined. In addition to this problem that the two great hills, the president of the state and the Prime Minister are completely opposite and conflicting foreign policy positions, we also have a problem with the fact that when they speak about it, they also express and offer very vulgar and unworthy words, and they actually entertain the Croatian public. And it can indeed be something that some of our citizens have fun and seem funny to them, however, professionals in diplomacy, and also politicians and statesmen of other countries see well what this is all about and the Croatian interest and reputation in the world is terribly, terribly harmful. And our politicians, primarily the president of the state and the Prime Minister, should first of all be statesmen, statesmen, and be aware that the constitution restricts them to present in foreign political positions something that is not with the other hill and the second ego previously agreed and should no longer continue with this practice in which they are portrayed as ordinary circusers and entertainers of broad folk masses or themselves in love like Andrej Plenkovic. The fact is that to such behaviour neither HS as a constitutionalist nor a lawmaker can give an adequate answer because the procedure to initiate any breach of the constitution is practically an impossible mission, which means that we are an institutionally unfinished state in which unfortunately there is neither political capacity nor political will for this state to settle and regulate and normably prescribe to the end, from the constitution, to the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121932	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now be spoken by a respected representative, on behalf of, again, I was wrong to say, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, now will speak to the respected representative Rajko Ostojić. Now, I wanted to double your time. Here you go, dear representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121933	Thank you, Vice President. History is a life teacher "Historia est master's Vitae", we all know that. You don't think it's Mrs. Devereaux. Busic, it sure is. We have a lot of lovers of history, here's one behind me, Mr. Chairman, let's say, my smallness, we have Professor Grmoy who's not here and everything is in history, everything. Plato said the war was a natural state of the spirit, it's impossible that in one sentence he put war, nature and spirit, 500. before Christ, but that's right. When it was essentially the first war, the difficult question, very difficult, highly likely at a time when there was no sign of literacy or even of caves, but it is known that the first documented war, but the documented war, was 2700. Before Christ, so five thousand years ago almost, a war in southern Mesopotamia between Sumer and Elam and since then, ma'am. Busic wars are everyday, and that's why I said that history is a teacher of life, or at least it should be, but obviously we don't learn about it. 500 g. Before Christ, Greek poet Ashil said the famous and the soldiers, there are not many soldiers, there is no Edur, there is no Deputy Prime Minister, but often the soldiers and Croatian defenders say, military commanders, quote, in the war first suffers the truth and so it is, first it gets true if everyone has their truth under quotes. I'm talking about time 2.5 thousand years ago, today, if there were no drones at the time of ancient Greece, there were no supersonic missiles, there were no ballistic missiles, there were no ballistic missiles, hundreds of innocent victims being killed today with the truth, that's the difference, so in the war first there was truth, that Ashil was right, an old Greek poet, but today people get hurt because of these people, not because of the truth and manipulation and misinformation we are here today, and that's why the Social Democrats Club will fully support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO alliance. Of course in the time of the 21st century, the 3rd and 4th industrial revolution, information communication technologies, Vibera, WhatsApps, all of these networks you have, signals and similar telegrams truth so-called. The truth comes to a monstrous extent. Look at the last war, look at our Homeland War. That's enough counseling. You remember the Spegels affair. You remember how the movie on the general, Croatia, the commander of the 5th military area that Croatia was supposed to do under quotes. Remember that, 30 years... I speak English that the minister understands me, we can speak German. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, who will enter that truth? There are a whole series of portals, Google the truth, tsunami truth, untruth, misinformation, manipulation and in this war, and I will especially repeat during the Serbian aggression on Croatia and the Homeland War. Just before I Googled it, I looked at the time it was July 1914, it was warm 35 degrees today on July 14, 1914. There were four great empires at that time, in '14, four great kingdoms of the Ottoman Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the German Empire and the Imperial Russia. 14 days from the day of July 28, '14. World War I started, but on July 14th, the Viennas went for a swim in Opatija and Brijuni, they didn't go to Dalmatia, Dalmatia didn't know what tourism was then. They were taking a bath because no one wanted to believe there was going to be a war. No one wanted to see it, believe it was going to be a war. They had a cold, they had fog. The war was there because the 28th of June was an assassination in Sarajevo, a month after the normal war would begin, but people were scrambling, the music was shaking, and they enjoyed the poof war and what they called it, the great war. So pompous and described by the war that, I have to look at what it says now, a war that will destroy all wars. That's right, a war that will end all wars. That's what they called him. You know what? Because 60 million European citizens participated in the war, there were 50 million victims and 20 million Europeans died. How naive of us. Well, the minister is actually lucky that he had today's transport of Stier and Jandrokovic in an explanation of whether he looks naive or speaks naively, but I absolutely don't understand him. 21 years after that war that ended all wars began World War II. It's just the end of the war. And again. After our war we won, after the Serbian aggression and the Homeland War we all said no more war, here it is from us, only Hungary divides us from Ukraine. What happened after World War I? Four empires have disappeared, a series of states have been created, one of them is Finland. Nicely said the minister by 1917, Finland became an independent state until then was part of the Imperial Russia, not saying that you said it exactly, you said it exactly and from there was its neutrality. And exactly you said Sweden's neutrality and you told the third state of Austria exactly. But naively you think Austria will be neutral and that its international right protects its neutrality. He'll certainly join someone when he's or-or, God forbid he's or-or. So we need to learn something from this history because today we are witnessing at least I am spiraling global madness. Global madness, European madness, madness in Croatian politics as spoke by Mrak Taritaš and Dalia Oreshkovic, in some parts of politics. Unresponsible statements, vulgar statements, unfounded statements. Declarations that burn, that raises the lowest passions, so it's just not good. It just doesn't lead, it doesn't lead to anything. I've had enough of this war. I was at war while some were somewhere else, and I was older than those who could go to war, and they didn't go to war, and you were even older, that's right. Of course, my colleague Reiner and I were doctors in the war, we weren't defenders like defenders are real in terms of large perhaps heroes of the Homeland War, such as Ante Kotromanovic of SDP, Ante Deur, or perhaps among them Deputy Prime Minister Medved, but we were at war. We've been attacked and I've had enough of this war. So both Finland and Sweden have decided to move out of their neutrality. It's probably because it's not easy to move away, stop being neutral, it's terribly hard, remember Einstein, the world is a dangerous place to live, not because of the evil people there's always but because of the good people who do nothing. And that's why Sweden and Finland decided to do something, and maybe Austria will, too, Mr. Minister, maybe it will, maybe it won't. Because as Russell says the basic problem in the world is that fools are too confident, boastful, irresponsible that I have added, he said only fools are too confident, and unfortunately smart are constantly in the dilemma. Now this is the time for dilemmas, this is a serious matter. We'll leave the dilemmas for something else, and that's why Mr. Minister, you really don't have to be angry when we call you Bundestag and the statements and other things because both Cyprus and Turkey have done something. I was taught to negotiate, and I finished.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... they said three things. The optimum can't get that, by boot or line bottom below, you can't, and the beating saves you, beating you saves the best alternatives it had Cyprus, it had Turkey, it had Turkey, it we didn't have and we don't have, we don't have a beating because the single policy. And it is good that Milanovic supported it in Madrid at a historic summit. But let's really try to get back to my first sentence, history is a teacher of life, and we learn something from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121934	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will now speak the esteemed representative of Krešo Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121935	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it's time for a little or something different opinion. I could, I listened carefully to my colleague Ostovic, I could sign 99.99% of what he said. Yeah, history is a life teacher. Yes, there was a great war, later called the First World War, so there was an even bigger war, there was everything, but I, I was the most impressed and the most I sign a statement that was generally known that when there was a war, that the first thing that got hurt, that's the truth. Living today in the time of truth that we are given through national corporations that have taken over all the media in the world or almost everything, so we don't know who the owners are, even in Croatia, let alone the truth of someone, so the world powers want us to believe. I don't believe that truth. It is in the nature of every thinking man to question everything that is being placed on him and to seek out his own truth and ask if it is exactly what it says. So let's say, one single, well, just one example I'm going to make about this war in, between Russia and Ukraine, and that's an article from the other day where we and the whole of Europe are in a panic, which is going to be if Russia stops delivering gas and oil, which is waiting for us in the fall. Have we not imposed sanctions on Russia? Isn't Russia under sanctions? What do we care about Russian energy if we don't buy it? Obviously, the truth is somewhere else. So that's what the same journalists write. So we're going to impose sanctions on Russia, loud and clear for them and it should, it's aggression, it has to be shown in some way that it's not allowed in the 21st century, and it's never been allowed, and on the other hand we're shaking and we're afraid of what's gonna be autumn. It's contradictory, it's two contradictory truths that are being placed across the same media. It's about Sweden, it's about Finland. It's about, and it's always about their centuries of neutrality, the principle that now, under the influence of the world's events, they'd no longer be neutral but become part of the defense alliance. I have to say very openly, the NATO Alliance has been no defense alliance for 20, 30 years. So no NATO alliance was attacked or we had anyone to defend ourselves from. Action or mission, as someone said in Afghanistan and Iraq, then we could withdraw, if we're up to the truth, then tell me that Russia is on a mission in Ukraine. So it wasn't any missions in Afghanistan or Iraq but it was an aggressive attack on Afghanistan, on Iraq with questionable, questionable reasons that were not clarified today after 9/11, the NATO Alliance participated. Not to mention other things, and there were, so there were. Sweden and Finland played neutrality, and it wasn't. They participated in all wars, however, Sweden was a beneficiary of Marshall's plan after World War II, please? So there was no war in Sweden, that the entire Second World War would basically be a silent ally, which compensated for saving the lives of Jews, etc., etc., etc., but traded with Nazi Germany, which needed Swedish raw materials. Finland was even less than we can understand, since before World War II it was so-called. The Winter War, where the Soviet Union attacked Finland, took away some of its territory, so the entire Second World War until '44. until the Germans were expelled from the Soviet Union on the German side in every possible way, and then guaranteed it to remain within the existing borders without what Russia had taken from them before the war, provided they were neutral. Neutral and they respected it and became part of Western democracy, etc., etc. So these two countries weren't neutral or just on paper. Now they're entering the NATO alliance because they're afraid of aggressive Russian politics. Okay. I can understand, we were at war too, and if we were lucky, if we were to be able to seek NATO membership before the Homeland War, I'm sure that all of the Croatian people would have supported it, perhaps there would be no war. There may be no war, nor would there be a world force headed by the NATO alliance then decided that there would be no war in the former Yugoslavia because this is how, with one move of feathers, a telephone conversation could calm Milosevic and say, the war in the 20th century in Europe is out of the question. But they didn't do it. In fact, the Swedish Carl Bildt, one of the most famous Swedes we know in this area, has been waiting for his doctorate and is still on the table, accused the Croats a few years ago that they are responsible for the cleavage, so-called. Supporting the separatist forces in BiH, which is certainly insane and rude of the man who defended Milosevic, from the man who was against the Liberation Action Storm, from the man who said you stupid Balkans are just at war, well, well, well, Mr. Carl Bildt, former prime minister, former minister, former representative of the Kingdom of Sweden, now we can probably say nothing to you, so nothing will happen to you, what NATO alliance, peace, preserve peace, conduct talks, and do not enter into confrontation immediately. Well, that should be our answer. Our response to the people who had still given us 30 years of proof of how war should be waged, not war, but diplomacy, as I imagine, as they led her with Hitler between '41. And until '45. Mr. Finland and Sweden, I'm sorry. I repeat, I can understand their demands at this time as quickly as possible by joining NATO. But I am even more sorry about Croatia and I am even more sorry about BiH or the Croats in BiH because no one in this Parliament or in Croatia or in the world will convince me that there is a worse geostrategic or potentially war situation in Scandinavia than in the Balkans, or Southeast Europe. No one can convince me. However, I see British and US diplomats in BiH who continue to cook, continue to cook the situation in BiH rather than calm it down. We, Croatia, need Croatia to be first. I love the Ukrainians, I love the Swedes, I love the Swedishs and the Finnishs, I love the Americans, I love everything. But I love Croatia the most. Croatia comes first to me. And if Croatia is in the first place,.../incomprehensible/... we need to condition resolution, not only in BiH, but in the entire Southeast Europe area, calming down, stabilising this situation so that we do not have a 10th or 11th war in the last 100 years at the very borders. And then you can forget tourism, and if there is no tourism, and there was no tourism in '92, '93, '94, '95, only '96. in the tracks, then you can forget the Croatian economy and then you can forget the danger of sanctions from the sad autumn as it awaits us, then we are facing a catastrophic fall. The disaster fall, primarily Croatia located on the edge of NATO's alliance and on the edge of the EU, has not even gained its status here in BiH. So there should be a condition to resolve the issue of Southeast Europe and then there will be no problem for both Finland and.../incomprehensible/... and Finland and Sweden to accept any alliance they want. If we are a full member of the NATO alliance with the right to vote, with the right to veto, then we will act that way. Nothing against Sweden, nothing against Finland, but for Croatia, for Croatian interests, for the interests of our neighbours, Croatian diplomacy must be fought for. By the way, while we're at the Bundestag, I'm going to touch that, those resolutions or non-resolutions, binding or non-binding, now I'm reading on the portals that Bosniak nationalists attacked Mr. Juranovic, I think... Juratovica, who is otherwise a representative of the left because he had objections to the text of the resolution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They attacked him and wouldn't let him speak for the Srebrenica fall. That's only because he's a Croat, Mr. Grlic Radman. That's what Bosniak nationalistic diplomacy in Germany does, and we can't do it, in your own words. We can! I am sure that the Croats have much more in Germany than there are Bosniaks, that we have much stronger connections, much stronger opportunities, that we are much more bound, that our diplomacy, if it wishes, can make a step in the direction of concern for Croatian interests. And this is used as a diplomatic option, so as Cyprus did, as Turkey did, and yes, it may have been separate things for you, but in the case of Cyprus you weren't. I will conclude, Club of HSS, Croatian Peasants' Party and RF, Workers' Front They will vote against the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121936	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ante Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121937	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. I'm sorry to hear that we heard this historic display of our colleague from HSS, but I'm sorry that at the end of my presentation I thought we'd invite him all to be for these two final drafts of the law and I think we're sending a wrong message at these moments, if we're not unique, as we were not unique, i.e. We have had one abstention from this club about and on about the Declaration on Ukraine, and I think it is devastating that everything we do for Croatian diplomacy and Croatian interests on the international plan and here, I call on Friday to tomorrow that colleagues from the Workers' Front and HSS have given little thought and yet support these two countries, our friendly countries on their way to the North Atlantic Alliance, because I think we may remember the last 30 years that all Croatia has been through and how much international reputation and international recognition meant to us and how many problems we have had and how many years we have suffered and suffered and may have had fewer victims in the Homeland War and less suffering that we have been before, faster acknowledged and that our struggle has been recognized earlier and that our struggled earlier and faster than our allies today. So here, I appeal, I meant it in the end, but here at the beginning I'm going to appeal to all my colleagues to think about it a little bit and support these two final drafts of the law. After this introduction, namely, we have before us the meaning of the access protocols concerning the Washington Treaty itself, ratifications and end of the process in all 30 NATO member states as the last instrument of ratification for Finland and Sweden to become full members of the NATO alliance, i.e. 31 and 32 Member States, respectively. Why is the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO an important alliance, not only for the NATO alliance, not only for the EU but also for Croatia, but for the full peace currently in the field of the European continent? We know what's going on and we know what geopolitical and strategic times we live in and what Russia's aggression on Ukraine means. I will commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because I think that after the Baltic Parliaments, we are one of the first parliaments, the first parliaments that even discusses this ratification, this shows the speed of our external diplomacy, but shows our friendly relationship, but also the policy of reciprocity and reciprocity regarding accession, not only in NATO but also in the EU, but also in all other alliances where we think our friendly countries deserve to be, and the security of economic, but also in all other political reasons. As far as geographical-strategic features are concerned, with the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, the Baltic Sea, related to military maritimeity, becomes a strategic sense of becoming, colloktically speaking, a sort of internal sea of the NATO alliance, because now almost the entire coastal area of the sea, except for the relatively narrow appearance of a wider area related to Kaliningrad and related to St. Petersburg de facto, will now be controlled by allies and NATO Member States that area which I think has always been a strategic goal of NATO, and now, looking at the situation in Europe, we succeed in achieving this goal and achieving it. We will not mention the NATO, NATO allies and NATO forces in the airspace of Finland and Sweden, which until yesterday was very problematic, especially regarding the supply of Baltic countries, but also about protecting the borders of the NATO alliance itself, which we are here from the foreign and European ministers and heard in the opening explanation. This very ratification is the path and goal of the NATO Strategic Compassion itself, which was recently adopted, here was also the admiral of the commander himself, the very wartime NATO Alliance, who presented to us the strategic compass itself and, in fact, how much it has changed these years just now, adapting to today's times and situations. When we mentioned a NATO alliance two days ago, we were mostly discussing NATO financing the alliance itself regarding that share of GDP of the Member States that are paying into this defence security alliance, we are now not talking so much about finance, we are now simply concerned about security and the European continent, but we also care about security for each NATO member country because we know about the article ourselves. The 5th and possibility of defence, but also the threat we feel today in a Europe that was not, which could not have been imagined several years ago. As far as Finland and Sweden themselves are concerned, we do not need to look at this, what I said in the opening, opening line, we should not view it exclusively as some ad hoc solution to the situation, but we need to look a little bit wider. NATO has always wanted Finland and Sweden in their ranks and is doing their strategic position normally, but also the very composition and size of those countries, which we have heard Sweden itself has 10 million inhabitants, Finland 5 and that unlike NATO members, one subject that we often discuss here is especially about this war, which is the theme of the reserve and the military deadline itself. Finland and Sweden have been working their policies and for the sake of their development of the defence forces for a long time and have never given up on their reserve powers, one large, large contingent of people from some 15 million people in an interesting and strategic area we can be sure that they are trained, that they have completed one basic training, that they know how to handle weapons and that NATO will contribute to the alliance when we look quantitatively. This is normally a strong political decision, is this exactly what we are opening political structures between NATO member states and Finland and Sweden themselves. I'm not going to mention it here, and we've been working with these two friendly countries for many years, especially the military industry, not to mention armored vehicles, ships that we're using, military planes and everything these two countries produce, so as far as the NATO alliance itself is concerned, there will be benefits in this respect. As far as Russian propaganda itself is concerned, we have not mentioned much of the nuclear war itself, which was mentioned in part in the event of a major threat or the possibility of the disappearance of a particular country or a certain territory. I think that we are doing exactly the opposite of Finland and Sweden, we are just protecting democracy, we are showing as a NATO alliance and we are not afraid and that as a community of both democratic and free-minded states we will do everything best for the security of each member, we are expanding in this way and the Euro-Atlantic family itself. We know often here in the assembly to use these two states as a good example related and sociological not only defensively and safely, we know how arranged these two countries are and that we have very much to learn from them and this is the legitimate interest and right of every country to look in any way for a safe port and, yes, safe haven and a safe framework for its further action and protection of their personal interests. I believe that in this collective responsibility will be this very shield of Finland and Sweden, don't God ask, but that it will surely have it, about some security threats we can through an individual debate, it's getting less and less time. I will point out that, we mentioned part of it and what is happening today in Ukraine and that the repercusions that this aggression of Russia puts into question such a large country, we can continue to debate further, we need to focus precisely on the politics of the Republic of Croatia. I agree here with all predecessors that the interest of the Republic of Croatia must normally be in the first place, but as we have heard from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our interest is security, and security can only be made possible by collective defence, but also by co-operation between Member States, but normal and enlargement policy for which Croatia is looking at all alliances from the EU through NATO alliances to all other world organisations has always had a policy and has always appreciated what we needed in the 1990s, and this is exactly the international recognition, so we have never been even the brakes of other countries just joining any association, and in particular, a defensive and security character. This is also an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia, I believe that we will also take advantage of it in our personal relations with Finland and Sweden and in the development of the military industry, we have these common topics, and here I am looking forward to these two countries joining the North Atlantic Pact membership and having opportunities, an alliance, and that we will have opportunities for our colleagues tomorrow to see in some peace missions together with our soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121938	Thank you. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is good that Croatia is a member of NATO, the NATO Alliance is one, it is one vital interest and experience shows that NATO is doing well in its main tasks. What I said earlier, however, is that NATO as such is not a purpose for itself. Even after the collapse of communism in Europe and after the end of the Cold War, there have been serious debates about the meaning of NATO's existence, and we see in fact that it is very good that this alliance has been maintained because of Putin's aggression on Ukraine has been given a new, new justification for its existence and no one, no one will doubt it. The country's movement certainly supports Finland and Sweden's NATO entry. We've been pretty clear about this since the beginning, but a few words need to be devoted to the process and the controversy that has been caused in recent months. So President Milanovic himself recently changed his rhetoric and attitude in Madrid in some way and recognized that at this point the unity of the alliance is of vital interest. So, regardless of the disagreements with the government, I think that in the end, prudence won. However, I would like to look back on the fact that every country, even if it was a smaller member, has the right to advocate its strategic interests as Turkey has made and received some concessions regarding the treatment of people she considers terrorists by Finland and Sweden, so Croatia could, in my opinion, have done more for Montenegro's NATO entry 2017. So, I will remind you that there is still a border dispute with Montenegro in Prelaca. We could certainly get the understanding of our allies back then for that question. However, Croatian politics did nothing, no, there were no tensions between Pantovic and the Ban Courts, so at the time of former President Grabar Kitarovic. And I find that a failure, I think the minister might have admitted it before, because things are always complicated, but the fact is, we haven't even tried to fight for what belongs to us. Today, the situation in BiH is unacceptable for Croats and it is certainly legitimate to raise your voice about these problems. About election laws and other circumstances that do not apply to us, it is a Croatian obligation. However, this must always be said in a wise, discreet way to do so. It's very dangerous in politics to make a public announcement that you can't deliver it often ends up getting worse than before. And unfortunately, I think that this case is now, after all of Finland and Sweden's accession, the way it happened in our public. So, in order for us to achieve something for the Croatian people in BiH, we must first in Zagreb achieve at least some kind of consensus and common position. I know it's difficult, and now it's even harder, it's almost impossible, and surely the Croats will not benefit from it. However, as far as this issue is concerned, given what the world is looking at in Ukraine, I think it is indisputable that Finland and Sweden have the right to seek membership and that Croatia as a reliable ally supports it. However, I would like to say a few words about the argument of the Russian side that it is trying to justify what it does to the Ukrainian people. It's a lot like '91. And rhetoric, a great Serbian rhetoric by Milosevic. So the Orthodox Church's behavior is unfortunately very similar. So, the Russian Orthodox Church today similar to that done by the Serbian Orthodox Church justifies brutal aggression on the neighbouring country. It makes it open without hesitation. So the world has a chance to see now unfortunately, it took a long time for the free world to recognize who the victim is and who is the aggressor in our Homeland War, here thank God it's a lot of dumps come to the surface and people could recognize what it's really about, but the argument is very similar. And I'm afraid many have not learned from it. So we hear a lot about how certain tragedies can't be repeated and similar, but they repeat themselves, they repeat themselves. So we certainly accept the logic of collective defence, I think it is certainly in the Croatian interest to continue to be a reliable member of the NATO alliance in this case, so we will vote definitely for Finland and Sweden. But I'll repeat, we need to take better advantage of some of the opportunities that are being provided because it would disagree with the minister, and I'm sorry he's not in the assembly that said he's optimistic and some things are going to make up for it. Very hard, very hard. So, I will repeat once again not just for ours, our commitment to my border with Montenegro to get rid of it as soon as possible but we could and I think of it as a bit more to fight for the position of Croats in BiH. Then. And it couldn't have even tried. I didn't even hear the HDZ demands in BiH at the time to put it on the agenda, which could have been. So we need to keep working to sensitize the world’s public for what is important to us. And in this respect, I understand what President Milanovic tried to do but unfortunately it had to end this way. So, I'll repeat, it's not good to announce something you can't deliver. The country's movement continues to see Croatia benefiting greatly from NATO membership. This drone incident, however, should keep us awake. Many still found it almost incredible that it could have happened to fly over NATO's airspace for so long and fall and thank God no one died in the middle of Zagreb. However, we have not yet received adequate answers, and we believe that someone had to pay the price in his position. They act in NATO as if nothing was disputed, even the secretary-general's first statements did not instill confidence as if he did not know exactly what had happened, so we must remain awake. The main guarantee for our security is the Croatian Army, the Croatian Army, and therefore we will continue to push for more funds for our defence in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121940	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121941	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues over the past 100 years, mankind has actually been through four major crises. A major economic crisis in the 1930s, an energy crisis has been remembered by someone in the 1970s, so the oil crisis, the global economic crisis in 2008 as the third crisis and today the culmination of the energy and military crisis. The volume of negative economic trends, therefore, in these cases entails deeper political and social earthquakes and processes within national borders. A new geopolitical alliance is being created8i among the states and is changing dominantly I will say savage, neo-capitalistic some paradigm of development that has ruled so far. The world is changing, and I'm going to stop there because this isn't a topic now or geopoliticals, and it's not a topic of new alliances and new blocks. I'm going to say something about a democracy index that is extremely important. So, the index of democracy measures electoral processes and pluralism, measures the functioning of the state, political participation, democratic political culture and civil freedom. The overall result is an average of 5 categories of public policy, and the score ranges from 0 to 100%, and based on the score, there are 4 categories of state or so on. political rule. The first countries are full of democracy, so countries that respect civil freedoms even at the level of ordinary political culture, and the problems of democratic rule are only limited, the media are independent, diverse, have no influence on mass media, no underpaid media, the judiciary is independent, and judicial decisions are implemented. The order on a scale full of democracies look at the interesting who leads, leads Norway, Iceland and Sweden that almost have complete score. And after Norway, Iceland and Sweden followed New Zealand and Canada, and then Finland and Denmark. So all 5 Nordic countries are among the top 10 liberal democracies. A circle of more liberal democracies closes Ireland, Australia, the Netherlands. I'm going to skip second category, and I'm going to mention third and fourth. The third category is hybrid regimes. The hybrid regimes have only apparent elections with electoral fraud, government repression over the opposition, widespread corruption and political dependence on the judiciary, low levels of rule of law, participation and political culture representing Ukraine. And we have a fourth so-called. authoritarian regimes, which are those in which political pluralism does not exist, are systematically disrupting civil freedoms, suppressing criticism and the media is under state control. In this round, then, the countries by the index of democracy include Russia and, for example, China. It is precisely from these last countries that there is a clear link between the internal policies of such regimes with their foreign policies that are directed against liberal democracies. And now a little more about Finland and Sweden and their political participation. What makes them great? High turnout of voters in the elections, a reasonable level of political autonomy, ethnic, religious and other minorities, the share of women in parliament, the engagement and interest of citizens in politics including media monitoring, the share of political parties and organisations in the population, the willingness of citizens to participate in legal and non-violent protests, the level of literacy, the promotion of political participation by the education system and other bodies. Then, apart from political participation, there is something called a democratic political culture, which means sufficient consensus of society and cohesion on stable functional democracy. Then the share of citizens who do not want a strong leader who would bypass and neglect parliament and elections, the share of citizens who support democracy as the best form of government and strong and traditional separation of the church and state. Then we can call civil liberties here. So it's the presence of free and printed electronic media, pluralism, the absence of domination and the concentration of one or two private owners, and the absence of state and control, the existence of freedom of expression and protest, with a natural restriction in cases of fostering violence, the freedom of professional and trade union, institutional opportunities for citizens to submit petitions, a very large level of religious tolerance and freedom of expression of faith, in the absence of restrictions on religious communities, which includes the restriction of private and public religious services and the absence of feelings of injury of certain religious groups from others despite forms of equality. And, of course, the most important equality of citizens before the law without favouring individual groups and individuals. All of this is marked by Finland and Sweden, I would dare say Denmark, which are countries we should seek as a young liberal democracy, and Finland and Sweden have chosen to join Euro-Atlantic integration through social consensus. Although the world is changing, as I said at the outset, still a large number of elements are valuable and institutionally involved to make our country today's extended, which is the EU, still one of the rare geopolitical factors of liberal democracy in the world. And the same is true, we can't kill, that the Union is still dependant on North America, that is. The U.S., which is also, as much as I agree or disagree with, in which countries too, Trump can win, so there is still another factor in democracy, and therefore probably, essentially, after World War II, there is a NATO alliance. For these very reasons, therefore, which I have listed through the index of democracy, and if that is a decision, the decision is by Sweden and Finland, so the SDP Club will support the bill, i.e. This proposal for a law that is today at a united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121942	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121943	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, society is changing at an extremely difficult rate, nearly five months since Putin’s war - destruction campaign, and during the five months on the political agenda, it has changed quite a bit. The mechanisms, procedures and decisions of European institutions, in relation to the situation before Russia's destruction, are rapidly progressing, unreal, given my knowledge of red tape within the EU, but the EU is not the only institution that has changed the way its policies are implemented, so have the Member States at national levels, especially in the context of national defences, preparedness and military capacities. For example. We can take Germany, the largest Russian ally in Europe, who has realized that he has to deal more seriously with his defence obligations in NATO. With Sweden and Finland, Denmark announced it plans to meet NATO's criteria for spending a minimum 2% of GDP on defence. Even Italian Prime Minister Draghi called for an increase in defence spending, he said that today's threat from Russia is an incentive to invest more in defence than we ever did before. All of this is proof that Putin's brutally broke the boy's dreams of many, especially those who like to call themselves progressives. It is precisely these progressors across Europe who, whether they want it or not, have become followers of the Polish national policy that has warned for more than 10 years about the threat Russia poses to Europe. Poland was aware that national military capacity and preparedness were crucial to the protection of Member States within the EU. We already went public on these problems in front of the Sovereign Club, above all General Sacic, who pointed to the need to unfreeze the military deadline within Croatia. I purposely mentioned national military capacity and readiness because no one will care about the Croats unless we take care of ourselves and ourselves about our defence capacities and abilities. While this is also the case of a drone that, a drone weighing more than 6 tonnes and more than 14m, crashed in the Croatian capital a month after the Ukrainian invasion, overrun the two NATO alliances without any warning from Croatia. Despite these problems I have talked about, I personally believe that NATO membership has more advantages for Croatia than there are shortcomings, but it is necessary and we need to be aware that if there is a worst situation, which is a situation like World War III or some major danger within Europe, Croatia must and can only count on itself and its military capacities. Sweden and Finland are a good example of exactly such policies. They have been on the West's side so far and are largely part of it, but have not seriously sought NATO membership out of fear that regional stability will be violated, and also because of at least now, by then, a soft public support for the idea of joining the alliance. The concrete co-operation between Sweden and Finland with NATO exists today. For example, by participating in a major military exercise in the region of Denmark, Cold Response 2022, and their action and membership in the NATO alliance goes into spite of the threat of Vladimir Putin, who at the beginning of this mindless war campaign threatened the serious military-political consequences of all those involved in NATO's expansion into the Baltic and Nordic countries, as well as across Europe. Nor should the request be forgotten, or letters to the governments of Sweden and Finland, from Putin’s dentist Lavrov, who required some security guarantees from them in early February. Sweden and Finland responded to this through a collective EU letter, and it is necessary to mention here once again, I have already talked about it, in the context of the EU, the Lisbon Treaty containing a clause on mutual defence, but the EU defence clause is not worth mentioning, it is only a wet dream of some federalists such as HDZ and Vucic's cracks, socialists and ALDE. Today in the wake of the problem with Russia, these will again call for the establishment of a European army that has absolutely no legitimacy. But if the Brussels hands agree, I have no doubt that this government, as its next strategic goal after the euro, will be ready to hand over the Croatian army into the hands of bureaucrats and European powers under the pretext of modern sovereignty. International, which Croatian sovereigns stand for, but modern sovereignty in which there is not too much room for people and their desires. Now, unlike our government, the government in Sweden understands the importance of people's opinions where conservative parties have actively engaged in the campaign to join NATO as quickly as possible, which, of course, resulted in the first time in a public opinion survey in Sweden, there is a majority that is to join the alliance. If we remember, there were situations and where the Swedish government issued a referendum on the euro where the people came forward, they simply said, we do not want the euro. This will never happen with us because direct democracy does not live in Croatia. This turn is actually a total turn of policy by the Social Democratic Swedish authorities who only a few months ago pronounced the socialist mantra across Europe to make such political moves additionally.../incomprehensible/... they would further destabilise the situation. On a similar, actually identical argument I listened to from our progressive forces on the left hand side of the assembly when I collected signatures to declare genocide over the Ukrainian people of Holodomor and to condemn the communist regime of Joseph Stalin. Absolute same arguments come from the left side of the assembly. However, the Swedish authorities did have a valid cause for concern, unlike our progressors. Given Putin's threats about the expansion of the NATO alliance, and with us left-hand Russians, but also right-handed, I can say that there was resistance, which could not be forced to condemn to them the close political regime of Joseph Stalin. The process of joining Finland and Sweden could take about a year, since each Member State must, independently, ratify its accession to membership, but given how much Putin is able to unite the West, it may happen earlier. Putin's so-called The special operation should have been only the first step in re-takening all post-Soviet states, re-established control of Central Europe, and seeing NATO rise into a fractal frightened shell of what once was. Sweden and Finland realized that if Putin were able to achieve his vision, he would leave them alone at best, either under his shadow or in the worst case, involved in World War III, because, enough is one view of the map of Europe that clearly shows that Putin could not move to northern Europe without passing through the Nordic countries. If the war spread, he would, they would be in it, one way or another. Despite his boastful statements that he would avenge NATO states with impudence to support Ukraine's self-defense, Putin has not expanded the war. Meanwhile, NATO refused to become an active war party by avoiding the possibility of a direct military conflict between the armed nuclear superpowers, and when this war broke out, what the Swedish and Finnishs saw was that no state of the NATO alliance gave up. 5 obligations to attack one partner, attack both the entire alliance and all the participants of the alliance. The promise included Member States that don't even have an army, such as Iceland. Moreover, just as Trump claimed that the alliance would be credible, each nation must give its share honestly. We saw a change in the condition of Germany, in other states, so he was obviously right. After the attack on Ukraine, many nations agreed and strengthened their military obligations. By entering Sweden and Finland, NATO is an important strategic goal, i.e. their entry is important for the NATO alliance, and thus also for Croatia because it is part of the defence of northern Europe. Both nations have strong military capabilities and a decade of experience in working with NATO. Croatian sovereigns will certainly support their acceptance of the alliance and we believe that this is the only correct way to ensure the counterweight of Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121944	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121945	Thank you, Chairman, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The decision to join Sweden and Finland is a decision that, not only in the Green-Left bloc Club, but also in the party and some broader circle of people, we have seen in a really broad context. Why? For reasons that decision is not unequal to us, and it is not easy for us. Generally, the position of the green-left bloc that we have repeatedly expressed is the policy of peace and the policy of global peace-building. In that sense, strengthening arms and expanding military alliances is not the general policy we support. Certainly the policy of spreading nuclear weapons is also not the policy we support. However, the context in which we have found ourselves, and this is a serious security crisis at EU borders and the fact that Russia has carried out military aggression on Ukraine and that it continues with threats to other countries, open threats, at that time of escalating conflict, but also brutal violence in Ukraine, it is understandable that some countries want to strengthen their military-security policies and this is not, and that is what is important to us, only the decision of political elites in those countries, but also the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Sweden and Finland. In particular, here's what you mentioned, a public opinion on NATO's entry into Sweden and Finland literally turned 180. So before support for Sweden's entry, and similar in Finland, NATO was around 20%, over 60% of express opponents, and now it's completely the other way around. I had the opportunity to talk to people who make up the government in Finland and who are members of the Greens and really their policy of building peace is their policy of actually not spreading military alliances. And the policy of actually reducing weapons is equal to that of ours, and they literally told us when we talked to a colleague from Finland, she said, "If someone told me six months ago, seven months ago, that I would advocate Finland entering NATO," I would say, but that today we have to do it because we are directly at risk. This view that it is about the decision of the countries of origin, that it is about the decisions of its citizens and citizens who support this decision and that it was a key and key argument for us because it is a matter of self-determination of those countries and we believe that when it comes to us friendly states that such decisions should then be respected and respected by their citizens. Of course, the question of all questions to which there is certainly no unequivocal and accurate answer is whether this sudden and recent almost unimaginable expansion of NATO will contribute to the calming of the conflict or will contribute to the escalation of the conflict and that was our main concern? We do not think it is good to put ourselves in a situation where, due to the great border between NATO and Russia that is now spreading, there is a daily possibility of incidents, incidents that, when they are summed up in some dynamics, can lead to an escalating of conflict. However, there is no single answer and a simple answer to that question because it is of course also the question whether these incidents will happen there whether NATO is there or not. The fact that this security situation has changed so dramatically in such a short time does not give us the right to moralise the decision of our friendly countries, but gives us the obligation to look at absolutely all the arguments and listen to them and respect them. However, we want to make it clear and loud that these decisions must not be unconditional. Unfortunately, in the political arena, they were conditioned by unacceptable blackmails from NATO member Turkey towards Sweden and Finland for the extradition of terrorists, and we know that this epithet is coming to Turkey and I will tell you that I have had direct contact with people who have received asylum in Germany and in other EU member states of Kurdish origin, some Turkish origins that were political competitors, political competitors of Erdogan and who, due to their political action and activists, received a sticker of terrorists. The Member States of the European Union protected them. If they came on a trip to Croatia, then our police would arrest them and act on Interpol's request for extradition that Turkey would place on Interpol's site, although they were known to be unfounded. Fortunately, we managed to defend them before the courts of the Republic of Croatia against these accusations and return them to the countries of their asylum. That's what Turkey now conditions Sweden and Finland. However, Sweden and Finland have made it clear that political asylum as well as the issue of extradition is the issue of our judiciary. And what we hope for is that they will not give up on these high standards of rule of law that they have and the protection of human rights that their courts are truly implementing and that these courts will continue to stand at the level they have been at before in each of these individual cases. Otherwise, it would be a precedent that would seriously jeopardise the common values of all members and members of the European Union, all. They would have trampled on what was based on it. We would step on the basis of which we built this community and we want to build it in the future, without that foundation there is no European Union. Finally, we are aware that we are living in times of increased militarization of tension and escalation of conflict. At such times, decision makers tend to make more than usual irrational decisions just when cold heads should make decisions. We believe that it is the duty of all of us who have the opportunity to participate in making and making political decisions that even in these truly difficult times marked by fear, uncertainty sometimes and panic still retain our sanity and do not take the course of deepening and escalating violence. It's not easy. What's more, in human nature, is that out of fear and panic, man makes additional mistakes. But that's why it's up to us not to succumb to our current feelings and emotions, but to always look at three steps ahead, which is the move we have to make to achieve stability and peace in the fourth step. I also want to say that Finland's decision that there will be no nuclear weapons on their territory was also an important argument to us. But I want to say one more thing, the current constitution has led to the expansion of NATO. It has also led to Europe's security policy being further buried in dependence on the US military power. At the same time, while Europe led this policy of U.S. Armed Forces addiction, some countries also led a policy of dependence on Russian gas. This situation, this strategy that we're going to be dependent on these here and there on those is one big part of the problem and it can never happen again because it was a serious, serious mistake. And we need to take this opportunity to talk here and here in Parliament and in the European Parliament about what Europe is doing for its own safety, whether it will have its own strength and whether it will stop relying on the external factors that very often put it into jeopardy about what decisions it will make. European security policy must be a European security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121946	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121947	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to point out that I support the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO because I believe this will significantly contribute to the strength of the alliance and security of Europe at the time of the biggest security crisis in the last few decades. By expanding allied areas, sharing values also strengthens the security of the Republic of Croatia. It is also an important step towards further strengthening the transatlantic security space. Sweden and Finland, after signing the Protocol, can participate in NATO meetings, have greater access to intelligence, but will not be protected by a NATO defence clause that says an attack on an ally is an attack on everything, and that will be worth until the protocols are ratified. Croatia is among the first countries to ratify these protocols, I think it is worth mentioning. NATO's land border with Russia will be more than doubled when Finland and Sweden are admitted to the most powerful defence alliance in the world. NATO members are currently sharing with Russia a land border of 215km, which will increase to 2,000,600km. After Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February, Sweden and Finland parallelly announced their intention to give up their neutral status and become part of NATO. Sweden has not been part of any military alliance for more than 200 years, and has maintained neutrality even during World War II. On the other hand, Finland moved to neutrality after defeating the Soviet Union in World War II. However, the Russian invasion in Ukraine has shaken their busy positions and launched new discussions on future security policy. The membership of Sweden and Finland would mean, above all, that NATO will no longer be uncertain about how Sweden and Finland will act in the crisis, as it will no longer be neutral. This will, of course, increase security in the Baltic region. It will also facilitate the Baltic States' defence alliance because, for example, there will be no more questions as to whether a Swedish airspace can be used to send troops or supplies to the Baltic countries. And politically, I would say that this is also a first-class political issue because it somehow seems to me that the first message of entering those countries into NATO is right now political and directed towards Russia. And secondly, NATO is also about the actual military capabilities that Finland and Sweden bring with them. In fact, while everyone else in Europe, if we can say so, has been reducing their military capabilities since the end of the cold war, Finland and Sweden have built their military capacities which can certainly be a win for the alliance. NATO, on the other hand, did not build its positions in the east by treating Russia as a partner. But it's obviously now in the big phase of change. It must also be considered that Russia has warned if Finland and Sweden will join NATO to step up their forces in the Baltic. At this point, not only is Russia focused on Ukraine, but I would allow my layman's approach to make a very bad impression there. Thus, it could be concluded that Russia will not respond to the military force of Sweden and Finland at the moment. But what Russia is currently doing is cyber attacks and campaigning propaganda through spreading false news. What could also happen is that Western allies can deploy certain forces in the Baltic region while the accession process itself is going on. In order to send a political message, the UK has already signed an agreement to support Sweden if it is attacked. However, it is not excluded that other Western countries will follow its example by signing a similar agreement with both Scandinavian countries. However, regardless of the support of Great Britain and the United States, I would say that membership in NATO is Sweden and Finland's best protection against Russian threats. We in Croatia fully understand their interest. On the other hand, it should be added that they have a highly developed industry, technology, standards, well-organised army with strong Navys and their accession will certainly contribute to the security of the Trans-Atlantic space of Europe, which is why we are strengthening our own security, so I will support the validation of this Protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121948	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The Honorable representative of Brcic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, surely every NATO member is an important link in the chain and the stronger the link is, in general, NATO. And each member has its own speciality both the new members and Sweden and Finland certainly and their technological achievements to contribute to the defence power of NATO's alliance even more pronounced. I would also mention this, and we had this often especially if we were joint exercises at sea with NATO members, which would highlight the speciality of the Croatian winning army and the Croatian Army which received one additional value in the NATO system. And on this occasion, I would point out a constant investment in our army. Although we are a NATO member, we did not put in another plan to equip our own army, which we see is happening in continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121950	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121951	Thank you, colleague Brcic. So it is certainly necessary to always highlight the contribution of Croatian defenders to the creation of a modern state that is the predecessor of the Croatian armies as we now have which literally had to be built from the beginning, as well as to equip with the necessary equipment from the beginning. These investments are extremely important and therefore cannot support those debates that we have been able to witness especially here in the Croatian Parliament, which came from one discourse that investments in the military are too high, so this should be reduced. So there were even those attempts when, if you remember, they suggested an amendment to the budget that was just taken from the Ministry of Defence's portfolio and proposed for some other purposes. Our NATO membership is certainly a guarantee of security, and investment in the Croatian Army is also a contribution to this by supporting this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121952	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121953	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Petir, I am pleased that you have just made one distinction between the security issue and the political issue of these two ratifications of our friendly countries and that you have also mentioned their willingness. So I think that in accepting NATO alliances both Finland and Sweden there should be nothing disputed about the quality of the country, their organisation, but normal compatibility with the armed forces of all NATO member states and their military industry and their willingness to reserve and the armed forces themselves. But we need to point out this particular political part. We could not believe a few years ago that political unity and unity on the territory of the European continent would be necessary. We can be different but in some things we have to be unique, and it's stopping any form of aggression and it's together now... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121954	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121955	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. You are certainly and much more detailed than the rest of us as Head of NATO's delegation with all that is needed to bring individual NATO members in line with the conditions and requirements that exist when it comes to investment. You're right when you say that Finland and Sweden in that segment in the military segment come fully prepared, because they did build both states and their armies and their navy, investing in military industry and technology. And this political aspect must be in our mind even though it seems to me that somehow NATO has approached this whole area in a way that he believed that mankind will no longer experience such war earthquakes and thus is quite thin in the east. Because of this military action of Russia towards Ukraine, which is a threat to all of us, we must surely crush our forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121956	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121957	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Petir, of course, that we support the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO because this is how we increase security and the overall defence power of NATO, and I say the entire European Union. But whatever Article 5 is, The North Atlantic Agreement do you think that the Republic of Croatia should allocate the new situation a little more and the funds in the budget for the development of the Armed Forces or only material finance, rather than whether the time has come to try or start thinking about introducing a mandatory military deadline to enable young generations to defend themselves and the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121958	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121959	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. That must be one question ahead of us that we need to discuss seriously. What I might like to begin with is that all of our citizens and citizens who want to go through certain if I can say so by training, a course that would not take too long to gain some knowledge in a defensive sense and then use them if it is necessary to enable them to do so. I think it is now limited to young people up to 27 years old, and it is my impression that even these circumstances are in which we are, but the very interest of the people I'm talking to is also there for those who are above those 27 years old, so for those who were not obliged to go through a military term. Well also not only for men, but for women here I would personally like to pass such a one training.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121960	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121961	There's a lot of them that wouldn't go through military training. You wouldn't last military training there are a lot of them because there's an appeal to conscience, is there? [[/Intruder Petir: Wouldn't you pass?]] But in any case, every country had its own regimes that it was ashamed of. Croatia had NDH. Russia has Putin's regime. Putin's regime attacked Ukraine should be quite clear. Sweden and Finland, as his colleague Beljak spoke of, is the fact that she was not completely neutral. In fact, for a short time, 2 years in the Swedish regime or the delivery channels for Nazi Germany, which at the time was an aggressor to Russia. So, this is my replica neither Sweden nor Finland were to the end neutrally nor during World War II, and that is why Sweden is because... on the side of the Allies a plan was obtained by Marshall and received about 13 billion, the entire European Union and then 10 countries including Sweden. So neutrality is a very relative term.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121962	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121963	Thank you, colleague Ostojić. I'd still start with that first, call of conscience. I am glad that you have mentioned this as a doctor because lately it has been the haranga of doctors because of the appeal of conscience which is actually a constitutional category, because the appeal of conscience is something defined by the Constitution, the International Conventions on Human Rights and cannot even be challenged during the war. So, I told my respective colleagues that the issue of compulsory military deadline is certainly a darkness that we can re-open, and I suggested something that is not mandatory but optional, and it is a kind of training that could last 2, 3 months where basic knowledge would be acquired for those citizens and citizens who would like to do so. I don't think that would be a waste, and it could just be useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121964	We're done with this. Since it's 1:00 p.m., we're now going to take a stand. We continue on the agenda, registered for individual debate, respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121966	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to individual debates and behind me are these two colleagues whom I will address, I hope that this one will accept my criticism and will change his view in this, in the very presentation of his views. We talked a lot, I'm glad we talked on behalf of the clubs in general, which the minister also gave one, one framework regarding these two proposals, the final drafts of the law and these two ratifications of Sweden and Finland. I will begin with a statement by an analyst that we can agree with, and says the first message of Sweden and Finland's entry into NATO is a political alliance and is aimed at Russia. Secondly, NATO is also concerned with the actual military capabilities brought by Finland and Sweden, while everyone else in Europe has in some way reduced their military capabilities since the end of the cold war, Finland and Sweden have built their military capacities which can be a major gain. I completely agree with that, and I think it's definitely time for us to open that debate, because the whole of Europe, including the NATO alliance, we often talked about it at the beginning and when it was that incident with the drone and at the beginning of the aggression itself, we talked a lot about NATO's readiness of alliances to these challenges. We know that Europe has been talking about the European defence forces at European level for the last 15 years, if not more, and it has been reducing its budgets, and it has been talking about the very defence forces at European level, and it is now somehow falling into another plan, and all of this is now proving to be a wrong direction and a wrong policy and that, in fact, the reduction of such budgets should not have happened at the levels of certain members. I think that's where we made the big step in the last six years. Since the time of Minister Krstic, and now Minister Banozic, and that we have been very much increasing the budget for the past few years, even so little visionary because we may not have predicted this word, but we wanted to be prepared for some extraordinary situation that is happening and which is unfortunately happening on European soil. We know that this ratification is, in fact, aimed in some way solely at the aggression of Russia in Ukraine, and we normally talked here and about certain fears and threats felt by both Finland and Sweden, but also a few other members of the NATO alliance, but also not members of the NATO alliance. It is important here to highlight this Baltic Sea and the Baltic Sea which has certainly been the cancer of the early NATO alliance, and now it is becoming a strategic area, this very airspace that is relatively inaccessible and much in one ungrateful area when we look only at the supply of these NATO alliances where we will now facilitate, facilitate our defence capacities access to it, access to it, that area. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we're already cooperating with our two friendly countries. I would just point out all the advantages that we have as a member of the NATO alliance, I will not only, I will not mention and we have often discussed here and discussed all the missions in which our armed forces participate and all the experiences that have contributed from what we later apply to both the Land Army and the Coast Guard and all the other aspects of the military. I will say here the position of the HS delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is that we will open up the issue, we have talked a lot about BiH, we will open up the issue of Kosovo on our North Atlantic path because I think it is our friendly country that definitely deserves the NATO Alliance's path and to start to work towards a partnership for peace as a first step and as something that will very much help develop their defence forces. Since my colleagues are behind me from the Workers' Front who are against it so far, I am also appealing to them, in particular it means well-meaningly I appeal to make one turn and to understand all the benefits for the Republic of Croatia, but also for the NATO alliance and the security of the European soil and to be in favour. We don't need to, we don't need to hate the Russians, they're very much our friends, we need to be rude to Russia's policy, we don't need to be like some people might be trying to be faithful to their mother Russia all the time, we need to defend Europe's interests, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121967	Time. We have replicas, the first respected Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterparts, here in previous replicas it has been stressed that it is important and important that just because of the borders on the sea of NATO pacts, as well as through the entry of Sweden and Finland, this border of security on both the mainland and the sea on Europe will be further established, and I would also mention as well as known within the Croatian Navy we have a coast guard, an organisation that has essentially police powers when it comes to the border at sea, and a significant part of their vessels are just coming from these countries, primarily from Finland, so there should be mention of military ships and the Helsinki class, we clearly propagate our production, but here it is known that they are technically quite potent. You also mentioned the missions of our soldiers around the world, I would point out with this military aspect that great importance attaches and learning the tradition of a certain space so... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121969	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121970	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Brcic for this replica. I couldn't agree more with you. It is the missions we carry out through both the UN and NATO, especially this last one in which the Croatian Navy participated, the Croatian Navy in the Mediterranean, that give immense experience and new lessons learned later on in the development of our Coast Guard. We know that we are now in the process and production and development of our ships. This is unfortunately due to the problem of certain smurfs, especially that mentioned in Split we have some problems with the delivery, but I believe this is definitely going to fix it. This is one opportunity for Croatia too, because the great emphasis will now be on the Baltic Sea right now at the establishment of this maritime border and the development of the protection of that area, and I think we need to jump in and take advantage of the opportunity after the land power, after the acquisition of fighter planes, so that we can certainly serve there and get what is needed for the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121971	The next replica honours Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bacic, the Republic of Croatia is the first to know what it means to be internationally unrecognized and in no alliance while the aggressor is at the door. I believe that now Sweden and Finland both feel threatened because they have a de facto enemy at their borders. That is why I am sure we should welcome the rapid accession and expansion of NATO's alliance because it is the only guarantee of security on European soil. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121973	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121974	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Baradić for the replica. Absolutely seen in some data that the minister himself and the land border of 1,215 km bound between NATO members and Russia will now increase to 2,600 km, which is a large area that will definitely need to be secured, which was a soft area of one cancer of the early NATO alliance that did not know what with it and how to defend not only the border but also the airspace and the sea and everything, the sea corridor and everything that goes with it. For this ratification, we definitely need to be open because we know what all Croatia has been going through in the 1990s, we know what membership in certain associations would mean to us, how much it would speed up development, not to mention how much it would reduce both war damage, human lives and everything we lost in the Homeland War and how much it would help us and how much I believe it would help our partner countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121975	The next replica is the respected representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121976	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, well, you've drawn an excellent line, asking a question that would justify why one of us would be against the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO? Namely, are these the countries with which we have unresolved questions? We don't. They're friendly countries. Why would they prevent me from entering NATO of their friendly countries? On the other hand, we are looking at the EU's strategic approach, of course NATO members, extending the borders of NATO alliances, increasing security for both Europe and the Republic of Croatia. So there is no single excessive reason why we would oppose countries that want to join NATO and thus increase the security of their people. In fact, here we should achieve absolute agreement in confirming ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121977	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121978	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Frankovic for this replica. That's why I appealed to my colleagues who are now speaking behind me and who were also against the very declaration. were restrained on a declaration about Ukraine that we were not able to justify the same, and when we remember what we were going through in the '90s and about our international recognition and certain requests for peace and we did not get an answer from the Western world and how much problems it caused us. We are definitely not aware, and we cannot be aware of why someone will be held back or against this. Since the 1st of April 2009 when we joined the NATO Alliance, before it was related to the Partnership for Peace, the Republic of Croatia has always been for enlargement. She was never against enlargement because she believes it is the only, only security for peace stability not elsewhere but right here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121979	The next replica is the respected representative of Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121980	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, you mentioned Kosovo. Now I'm going to ask you one question without taking anyone's side, so neither Serbia, Kosovo or Russia, Crimea. Did you know that Russia's President Putin repeatedly accused him of anxiety or occupation of Crimea called for equivalent on the other hand in the case of Kosovo? Do you know whether there is a difference between what was done in Kosovo and what the West did in Kosovo, so he separated a part of Serbia and what Putin did with Crimea in 2014 if I'm not mistaken. Is there any difference for you? So that's all I'm asking you to answer me and deny what I keep saying is that you're hypocritical and you have double criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121981	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121982	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague, Whitey, for this replica. I don't know. I still wonder what's the matter with you in this situation. When I see you as the Croatian peasant party I appreciate, which I appreciate because we know what contribution she made for the Republic of Croatia, unlike the Workers' Front, who didn't contribute to any, although he doesn't want this country, I just remember not Kosovo, but I remember when the patriarchs in Montenegro spoke, we have this video when he told Montenegrins that they must always be faithful to their mother Russia. And now I don't understand where you get this rhetoric and what it means to you in this pro-Russian sense that you're going against all of these clubs, against all of your colleagues, for what? I don't really believe you're doing business with the Russians or having something in your family, but I say you shouldn't hate the Russian people, that's our friendly people, but the triba clearly says not to this kind of policy, so don't be faithful to your mother Russia. Be faithful to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121983	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first to be respected is Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121984	238, insult of parliamentary deputies. And my colleague Bačić, I really don't understand how you can let yourself say that the Workers' Front didn't do anything for this country, you who represent the party, and you're an example of opportunism in politics that has done a lot in this country, but only bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121985	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121986	Art. 238, my colleague Bacic lies and twists my words. So I clearly at the beginning of the replica fenced myself to take any side, let alone the Russian side. You accuse me of being a rusophile, yes, it is, frankly, you didn't answer how you do equality, you put an equal sign between Crimea and Kosovo, answer me that question, very simply, you won't answer whether you don't know or you know but you're hypocritical if there's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121987	Okay, and you used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to call in an article. 238, but what I'm about to say is, I'm actually putting myself at risk and getting a warning, but I think it needs to be said. We are looking at the last days that in this assembly the level of our discourse falls to the bottom, we cannot accuse each other of being traitors and of not wanting Croatia. We all took an oath here, all of us, and whoever took the oath, we have to respect it as an intercessor, and then one tends to the other, and the discourse fails, let's not do that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121989	Time. Okay, and you used this as a form of replica, and then a reminder to you. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121990	Don't let God make anyone feel offended and that I have offended someone in some way, I'm just repeating the words and attitudes that colleagues represent here, and comparing HDZ and RF's contribution to Croatia is I don't know, I'm amazed, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know... Okay, the Communist Union created this state or HDZ with defenders and Franjo Tudjman, who? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121991	Please don't communicate with each other, and you, Mr. Bacic, are being warned. We have a replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121992	Dear colleague Bačić, I don't know the difference either. I have to admit this as well as you, but here's one, and here's a little bit of an answer to the question asked by my colleague, Beljak. Albania has not adopted or anecedated Kosovo, Russia has detected Crimea. Ukraine did not attack Crimea and drive out the Russians with Crimea and exiled them, so, as Serbia did with Kosovo when two million Albanians fled and died and who knows how many tens of thousands, and the Russians without cause called for some right to their historic visit, occupied and annexed, so the differences are very, very important. But on the other hand, I'll tell you this thing, here's your comment to my colleague Bacic. At one point we take sides, and we take it, we're the NATO Pact and the point as it is, it's ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121993	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121994	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Zekanovic, I am glad you responded to your colleagues about Kosovo. I will only add it here and agree that it is not, is not, is not the same thing and we must not accidentally look at it the same way because of our friendly relations, but also because of the contribution of the Albanian minority in Croatia and the Homeland War and vice versa to our contribution and our help to them in the war. What has happened there and how many people have moved out and how many people have died in the most painful, in the most painful and beastly way, it is only now being written and done perhaps certain documentation, so we may not be familiar with the situation in Kosovo itself, but I think in my Euro-Atlantic path, especially regarding the peace and NATO alliance that Kosovo requires, what Kosovo needs and that Kosovo will believe me as a brother country and in some way as their Big Brother, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121995	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121996	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I welcome both personally and most of us to join Sweden and Finland in NATO. Their entry will contribute to security in Europe and transatlantic space. The first message of the entry of Finland and Sweden, which is political and is aimed at Russia, is the second one about profit for NATO, and it is about the military capabilities of Sweden and Finland, given that they have continuously invested in their military capacities. We should not even mention the benefits of our country by joining NATO, it is a guarantee of course peace, but what I will ask you, and it is on the trail of these military capacities, how much Croatia invests in the military, is that enough and what else can we fix? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121997	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121998	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Maximchuk for asking. I have just noted in my own, in my individual exposure that for the past few years, we have been increasing considerably, increasing the Ministry of Defence's budget and investing heavily in HV, especially looking at the period from about 10 years ago when the material resources were removed, when it was not working on the contribution and development of the Croatian soldier himself and its readiness, I think we are now very well on track, behind us several major acquisitions, I believe that we will continue with this, especially after the aircraft that we will go to the purchase of military ships and that we will very much strengthen the coast guard itself. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, we've been working closely with them, already getting some equipment, for many years now, so this is just a benefit for us and for them as to their NATO entry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u121999	The individual debate of the respected Katarina Peovic follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122000	First of all, to say that we will be against receiving Sweden and Finland into NATO not because of any opposition to these countries, nor because of Milanovic's attitude towards the issue related to BiH, but because of our attitude and consistent relationship to the NATO alliance. And I am extremely glad that our colleagues from the HSS have joined us here in this attitude. So we are at the moment of history in which once a neutral Sweden agrees with Turkey's blackmail that has conditioned Sweden's admission to NATO by persecuting Kurdish activists who will now be called terrorists. It is about members of groups who heroically resisted a much greater number of Isil's terrorist army, which Turkey bombed while fighting Isil. And these Kurds, members of the PPK of the Kurdistan Workers' Party fighting for Kurdish law, Kurdish rights in Turkey will now be persecuted as terrorists in Sweden. So let's think about how we met at the moment of history where something like this is possible, right? We should ask ourselves how we got to this point when supposedly neutral, liberal countries were persecuting activists who were protecting them as freedom fighters until yesterday. Croatia's position in NATO is a typical, autocolonial, servant position. We entered that alliance in 2009 without a referendum on the grounds that we would be more sure that our drones would now fall in Zagreb at a moment of increased NATO's vigilance. We're very awake, we're very awake. There is nothing, there is no point in saying that Croatia is equal at this joint table despite the phrases we have heard here from the Minister of Security's umbrella, co-operation. NATO is primarily the military exposition of the U.S. through which it is conducted, implemented and implemented geostrategic, geopolitical and economic interests mostly in Washington. Let's remember Iraq in 2003. Let's remember Libya in 2011. It is estimated that more than 600,000 people died after NATO's aggression in Libya in 2011, and the country is in chaos. Let's remember Afghanistan, for 17 years we participated in this peace mission. How did she end up? By returning to the Taliban regime, the evicted and the total devastation of the country. The defeat of American imperialism in the Middle East in the nearly 20-year war against terrorism so-called people has brought only suffering. The workers' front has unequivocally condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine, we are against any aggression, squabbling and calling for wars. While Russian aggression and assault can't be an excuse because it's an answer that isn't proportionate to what led to it. We can't, and we shouldn't exculpate American and NATO expansionist politics. The war in Ukraine is the culmination of America and NATO's decades and years of politics. Putin was the result of the SAA's policy in the '90s, which first made Russia an American banana state where Americans preferred to place presidents, conduct a doctrine of shock and privatisation in order to actually lead to the emergence of Putin and the cooling of relations between Russia and the West. In 2014, the United States and the West actively supported and orchestrated a coup in which a corrupt but legally elected president was forced out of power in the elections. Not to mention the American economic interests related to energy and disruption means the finished meaning of North Stream 2. Although the Russian invasion of Ukraine cannot be justified, it does not mean that the United States and NATO can be excluded from criticism. We were restrained about the declaration of Ukraine due to the complete amnesty of US foreign policy, we were against sending the Croatian army to NATO on a military mission to Hungary and we will be against receiving Finland and Sweden into NATO alliance. The Workers' Front advocates internationalist, progressive policy of linking different countries on the basis of solidarity and common interests by refusing to do so Undermining interests and requirements [[Intruder: Time.]] Powerful forces. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122001	We have a few replicas. The first is the esteemed Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122002	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, I actually understand your views, you're against NATO and that's legitimate, your full right of course. However, if the two countries of Sweden and Finland want to join NATO, so they want it for their safety, their foreign policy objectives etc., etc., that is their right as well. Why would they want to take that right away from me for some reason? Why if they want to? So the people who live in those countries they want to. I repeat, I understand your position on NATO, on international relations etc., etc., but where does the right for us to prevent someone from something they think is good for them, that it's good for the people of those countries. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122003	First of all, we should say that in Sweden and Finland until recently we had an extremely high percentage of people who were against the NATO alliance. So we have to ask ourselves why we came at this point when a liberal Sweden means it's a situation to prosecute activists who are on the sidelines of the Kurdish Workers' Party. Our demand to vote, or our imperative to vote against, is solely about our attitude towards NATO. And we believe that the expansion of NATO alliance will not lead to greater peace, will not lead to greater security, and above all it will not lead to greater security for Europe or for ourselves and we need to be consistent and I really think this morning is actually spoken of in a completely unrealistic and uncritical way about one problem. I'm glad that at least you see some aspects and dimensions means this problem, it's not a single problem, it's not even a simple problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122004	Next replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Peovic, you are many times in this House or a voice of criticism from NATO and I thank you for that. I think the situation in which it is trying very unilaterally to demonstrate the work of international organisations, and so NATO is certainly not good for democracy. I may disagree with some of the things you said, in the end, I'll vote differently and my position is different from the one you argued, but I think it's very good to have a voice like yours and the arguments you made heard and I don't think that's why anyone should call you a traitor. And in defense of that, I will stop every time. What I'm interested in, so your argument is about deterrence. So NATO based its dissuasion and this policy has worked quite well in the last 80 years. So, if Sweden and Finland That's what they want, what would your answer be? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122006	Answer. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122007	Thank you first for that attitude because I really think that here is the role of the chairman, that if one of the representatives of another representative calls the enemy of the people, that actually reacts and I don't think there's any point in democracy in this House if we allow it, right? I mean, we're braver, sometimes we're a little bit hard on each other, and I got nothing against it. But that kind of attitude isn't, it's not correct, really, I agree with you. As for the position of Finland and Sweden, I will say again, so as you know, there was very great support for these, most, social majority in those countries against NATO, and much of it was justified and actually based on the need for neutrality, and I understand that people are now scared, but we need to see where the gene of this fear comes from and of course they're neither guilty nor us, but we're solving a problem that we haven't created.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122008	Time. Next replica, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122009	Thank you very much. My colleague Peovic, I'll just correct you. You said that we from the HSS accepted your idea against NATO. We're not, we're not against NATO, we're against further expansion of NATO, and that's how to stop the escalating of the conflict because everything that's going on in the world right now is going towards an escalating conflict. I don't need to remind you that this escalation of conflict could mean World War III and that this could mean a return to the Stone Age. We are not against NATO alliances in terms of an alliance that would be a defensive shield against someone, but we are against spreading NATO alliances, especially towards states that, you said, until some time ago have been extremely against it, and now suddenly they have become for, which is very, very questionable to me because I have not seen a referendum anywhere, nor have I seen a public opinion survey that would confirm such a drastic change of mood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122010	Yeah, first of all, I apologize to my colleague, Beljak, for generalizing, I haven't had time to discuss some of the distinctions that we have in this matter. But what I'm very pleased about, and it's actually easier to have someone standing for you, at least when, I mean, you have an answer that neither the middle-aged one, so when you're not the only red dot in that House, something does mean there's some other dimension of that problem, that there's the complexity of that problem, and the one brain that's really got hold of this House of 2 months isn't dangerous this year. So it's also dangerous for democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122011	And the last replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122012	Dear colleague Peovic. I'll agree with you on one thing, which is that it's not right what the Turks did to the Kurds in Sweden. So, which, you called them activists, some call terrorists, I think it's blackmail and it's not good. Here, I'll agree with you there, but that's how it is. And unlike you, I accept a NATO pact regardless of the shortcomings, mana, we're NATO Park and I wouldn't look deeper at it, at least at this level, but here at this level, I'm going to ask you a question, I'm going to say, you're even credible, you're in your attitudes, unlike many, who may think like you, but they don't want to say it. Is it your opinion that there might be a solution for you then to disband the NATO alliance? Would that be a solution? And then leave only Russia and China as the other two blocks that will then be militaryly run by the world or dominate?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122013	Well, thank you for that question. Actually, it's a very important question. We're in the middle of a fire and now what? How are you gonna handle it now, is that, that's a short question? But really neglecting the genealogy of this conflict and what is extremely dangerous, what we in this Declaration have brought as a common position of Parliament that aggression has been caused by nothing, means exculpatory fully American and NATO foreign policy, US foreign policy and NATO politics, the American imperialism that I have indicated here somewhere in several wars where America has completely unnecessarily intervened and actually brought a number of problems, which is actually related to Russia itself, which is indeed the result of the American post-cold war policy that comes today in the form of Putin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122014	Next is the individual debate of the respected Cressa Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122015	Thank you very much, Vice President. There we are, we've come to this, and I've suspected that anyone who has a different opinion, few of us, but who has us, will be declared a pathologist, a Russianophile, a traitor, that's what you have against NATO, etc., etc. I think it's crazy in parliamentary democracy. I'm going to take the chance instead of Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic responded to Hrvoje Zekanovic who told him what the alternative was. Yeah, that's a good question. That's a good question. What's an alternative to NATO's alliance? The alternative to me is, in my opinion, the European Union, the European Defence Alliance, because today NATO is an American alliance, and we are pawns and I will be open, so let the CIA kill me and anyone else. In Ukraine, America is at war against Russia until the last Ukrainian, and I will go a step further, in Ukraine, fighting America against Russia to the last euro of the EU and across Europe. Both Finland and Sweden enter the story under certain pressure settle down as you are asked of us or you are for or you are a Putinophil for the Russians. I'm not Putinofil, I'm not for the Russians, if I have to choose where I'm going to live or where my children will live, it'll always be in the west rather than in the east, but some things need to be made clear, not that that's why anyone, Mrs. Peovic, me or anyone else. So, we've got a rough winter ahead of us, we've got a crisis ahead of us, we've got inflation ahead of us. I'm asking the question, which of these things, and always since the war, someone's benefiting, is benefiting? Look at the US dollar course today or a month or three months ago, look and you'll see. Whoever sells to who energy and at what price, which is why they insisted on stopping the South Stream from which Croatia would benefit, is now blocking the North Stream, where gas and oil will come from, at which price, how this will be reflected, and yet we in Croatia will survive, we are used to crises, what will be in Germany, which will be in France, so my people are waiting for disaster, total disaster, waiting for us in the streets across Europe, not America, but Europe. So it's something that's being prepared and everybody knows. I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that all of us as little ducks are repeating what the American imperialists say, nothing else, so the war between American and Russian imperialism, Russia is the same imperialist force that Putin is crying for the great USSR, etc., this is ours, this is theirs as space, Ukraine we don't give there, the same thing with Baltica, the same thing with some other states, so the war between the two imperialisms, and I don't honestly care, I regret it, and again let them attack me as much as they want and whoever will, I regret the times when Croatia was part of a country that had enough strength and enough courage to say no to the West and the East, thank you beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122016	We have several replicas, the first respected Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122017	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Beljak yes, I fully agree with you, the war in Ukraine is so-called. The proxy war, it's absolutely clear to anyone who looks at it, fighting two global imperialist systems, that's clear. Whether NATO will really be able to play its role properly or perhaps remind all of us here, including the Croatian public on November 8, 1991, few people will remember that date, 10 days before the fall of the Vukovar NATO brings so-called. A Roman declaration saying it simply does not want to look at the war conflicts in the area of the former Yugoslavia, says it is an internal matter of these countries and is being built up in any way clearly and precisely by an international document, the Roman Declaration of the North Atlantic Treaty of any kind, we can say, of any assistance to Croatia that, at that time, is cramping under Serbian aggression, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122018	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122019	In 238, a respected colleague of Beljak, so I can even say that I saw you in your speech and some kind of heart, but I think that you're a little bit, a little bit of that end you didn't need, here's the most honest thing, I think you've crossed some line here, here's the thing in a quiet way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122020	Okay, you used this as a replica, you get a warning. We have a replica. Yes, a reply to the replica, please. [[Clip intrusion: Replication response]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122021	You didn't ask me the question until the end, but I guess, yes, 8.11.91. Right? 8.11.91. There was still the possibility that a third party might be involved in the war in Yugoslavia. You know Veljko Kadjevic had very good connections with the Soviet General Staff or later Russia, nuclear forces. So then they were very pragmatic, they let us be slaughtered by Serbs etc., etc., we were recognised by America two months after the EU, I'm talking about this America, and the war stopped only when it was in their interest in late '95. With the fact that they stopped things from happening until the end that the Serb aggressor was fighting to its feet, they said no, stop, enough, we have to balance, we have to leave the balance, and that balance has been going on for 30 years. and threatens to escalate tomorrow with some new war in BiH and in all this space, it's American politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122022	The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122023	I like the end of your speech the most, and I'll add that, we used to be unclassified, and now we're at war for other people's interests and suggestions would be to make a step forward, to be brave, and not to be autonomous, not adventurous, and what that would mean, and I didn't say in my speech, instead of militarization, we should advocate neutrality, end of NATO expansion, back to the CFE Charter (The Conventional Armend Force in Europe CFE Treaty) 1990 and the ABM Charter (Anti-Balistic Missile Treaty) of '72. Between the United States and Russia, as well as NEW START (New Strategic Arms Reductions Treaty) Charter between the United States and Russia 2011. If it were our policy, if Croatia showed at least a little autonomy in politics, I would clap to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122024	Thank you, colleague Peovic. I'm gonna get up there. I didn't say that by accident. I'd really be proud. He would be proud if the Italian fishermen did not come up to 10 miles in the Croatian area, and if they didn't care what would happen because there are none to confiscate them, I would be proud to keep all Croatian banks and be in our possession, he would be proud to have energy resources, especially in our possession today, and not that we have to depend on others and he would be proud of much more to mark the sovereignty of any state, and today he is not and his colleague, Peovic, is absolutely right and you are all aware of this, Croatia does not have his own sovereignty. We can't even say anything else so we're not accused of being Russian, we're pathetic, but we're a colony that listens, just like those ducks, little birds, like, ducks, listening to what the big boss tells us. Shut up, put your head down and don't answer your phone. Otherwise you'll see. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122025	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122026	So you're scared, Art. 238, insult. So you're constantly barking about insulting and now you're insulting yourself. I don't have anything against you, though, you're nice to me, so the late Workers are turning in their graves when they hear you support the position of the Workers' Front. One big Croatian peasant party. Son, be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122027	... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122028	My friend Bačić, I don't understand first... Since you,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what you ended up like in Parliament, I don't understand you at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you can't speak at all. [[Intruder: Please, please, you have no word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122029	You don't have a word, Mr. Whitey, you don't have a word. You don't, this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Katarina Peovic has a word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122030	238, that means insulting a parliamentary representative. Again I think we should react in each, so in every speech when someone offends someone, you should certainly as chairman react, but fellow Bačić, I think you're completely wrong. So the working-rural style is what this Parliament and you would be proud of if you had autonomy, and if you weren't a universal example of political opportunism you should actually be proud of and boasting about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122031	This was the same replica as Mr. Bačić. I forgot to say, Mr. Bacic, you've been warned, and you've been given the same warning as your colleagues. Mr. Bacic, that would be your third.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122032	I'll take my chances, dear Vice President. I, I would agree with you colleagues, if you had protected me from insulting your colleague from the bench, and that would have been correct, and if you'd raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure to him, I would have been quieter, not a river of roar. [[Intruder: All right, take your chances, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ante Bačić.]] And as for some universality, the mainstream, and I don't know what, so I'm not advocating for an international like you. Speaking of universality, let's all fraternize and unity and such nonsense. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122033	Okay. Mr. Bačić, it was a replica to a colleague, so you're getting a warning, that's your third warning. You're losing your right to debate until the end of today's session. Now we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122034	Thank you very much, Vice President. 238. It seems to me that it was an insult because I didn't understand Mr. Bačić half, and here I really didn't understand him half, but I know I heard something about him calling Radic. Don't talk to me about Radic, please. Radic was a panslavist. Radic spoke to Russia's mother, Radic was all that you had no idea he was because you had no idea about it. And don't just talk about Radic, and those insults, I haven't even heard them, so that cat about the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122035	Mr. Beljak, it's the same to you as the third warning, so you lose your right to debate until the end of the session. ... Third, third. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you're losing your right. ... So the individual debate next is the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: How is it going to replicate now?]] Incomprehensible... so just a little bit, I can give my opinion about the individual... [[Intruder: Excuse me, but I had a replica on his exposure, but regardless...]] You can't, and you can't, because he's gone. And you can't answer [[Intruder: Well, whatever he doesn't have a replica, I have a replica on his exposure.]] Gary Cappelli [[A little bit, but...]] Here you go. Sir. Sir, please sit down. [[Wait a minute, please.]] Here's a seat. [[I know, but please explain to me, I had a replica on his exposure.]] You're getting a warning. [[Intruder: Regardless of its replica, the reply to the replica.]] Individual debate, Gary Cappelly, come in. And I'm sorry, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just hold on a second. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122036	Thank you. Dear Chairman, please explain to me, I'm new to the Parliament, I'm not really, I may not know all the rules, but I've had a replica of Mr. Whiteman's individual exposure. I have the right to that replica, no matter what he can't answer me, I might even prefer it so I can push him a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122037	And what would be the purpose of the replica if it couldn't be answered? But you have the right to appeal, make a complaint to the Constitutional Committee, the Rules of Procedure, make a complaint if I was wrong. [[Well, I do.]] And you're winning now, please. [[No, no, I realize he can't replicate to me.]] Please, you're getting a second warning now. And because you have abused the Rules of Procedure for something that is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: And why?]] [[/Intruder: For what?]] And if you, you think you're right, that I took away your word unjustly, you have the right to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and they will sanction me. [[/Intruder: Why? He didn't know.]] Here's Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122038	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The organization of the North Atlantic Treaty is therefore an alliance of 30 countries of Europe and North America, as we know, from '49. Mr. NATO's primary mission is to preserve peace and security, regardless of today's controversy. NATO preserves our common values, democracy, individual freedom, the rule of law and a peaceful solution to the conflict and promotes these values across the Euro-Atlantic area. NATO is not only a military organisation that we see more and more today as a military organisation, however, it is a community of democratic values that the nations decide on, but it is also a community that is willing to defend those values if necessary. Therefore, any future effort aimed at building stable and sustainable public support to NATO must necessarily take into account 3 important arguments contributing to the overall support of the transatlantic community. The first is the fundamental purpose is protection, not only of all those countries and gathered in such a community, but also of protecting all those values and principles on which the entity is mentioned in general rest, starting from individuals, citizens, states and territories to the security and stability of systems and entire economies, which I have already mentioned several times today, we have talked a little more and more about defence and security, but it is also about the economy. This community of values today is ahead of a new one you would dare to say to the greatest challenges ever. We are witnessing the most severe violation of the international security structure that was established after World War II, as well as the economic crisis resulting from Russia's military aggression on Ukraine. Since its entry into NATO membership on 1 April 2009, Croatia has proved to be a reliable and committed member of the alliance on several occasions. We are one of the few countries that had a hard war experience during the Homeland War, and would especially thank our Croatian defenders on this occasion, because without them today we would not be in the Croatian Parliament. Today, where we decide as a full legal actor and ally in the accession of other countries to the North Atlantic Alliance, and we act continuously as one of the first Member States of the alliance. Croatia is now actively participating in discussions among NATO-based allies in Brussels as well as in any other decisions that Member States are making there by consensus and we are making a direct contribution to NATO-led activities. So, I stress by consensus. As a full member of Croatia within NATO, we promote our own views, foreign policy priorities and national interests, and we actively participate in promoting stability and peace in our immediate neighbourhood, the neighbourhood in Europe and the world. Continuing NATO enlargement is of paramount importance for the long-term stabilisation of Southeast Europe and the entire European continent. That is why the Republic of Croatia strongly supports the further expansion of NATO, thus expressing both its strength and its own security. In this regard, the Republic of Croatia as the leader of the policy of extending the alliance between the first countries that ratified the protocols just joining Montenegro and Northern Macedonia, which directly contributed to strengthening the security and stability of the very Southeast Europe. With regard to the expansion of NATO alliances to the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, it is enough to say that these countries share our values, have highly developed industries, technologies, standards, strong and well-organised armed forces, and their accession will greatly contribute to the security and strengthening of the military preparedness of the alliance. We must be aware that the crisis carries its influences on many aspects of the world's security. We must be aware that the global and security landscape is constantly changing. So Croatia supports Finland and Sweden's ambition to join NATO. The invasion has changed international relations and security threats on the European continent. Therefore, I am sure that by a large majority of votes we will confirm the wish, the wish of the two countries, so that they themselves have expressed to enter the NATO alliance as soon as possible, which is in these perhaps a year. By then, NATO's largest countries will have a strong guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122039	Following are several replicas, Ankica Zmaic is truly respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122040	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cappelli, the fact is that every NATO member is a very important link in the chain and that everyone is welcome, especially these two advanced and developed countries that have high standards, developed industry and technology, a well-organised army, and we are aware that by expanding these two countries, we will further strengthen the values and democracy and freedom. Well, here we are the Croatian member state of NATO for 13 years, and we certainly have that membership justified, so you can explain the justification of our membership and what it means and what it means for Sweden and Finland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122041	Thank you very much, sorry, thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished fellow MPs, in any case if we look at the way I respect each other today, it turns out that our defenders were also not supposed to do what they did because some discussions went in this direction that we heard that it was better that Yugoslavia stayed as far as I understood in one conversation, if I didn't get it well then tell me that I was wrong, but I don't think I was wrong, so it turns out that they were the defenders who died, who died, families all of which we don't speak now in details about everything, we all know that we lost time on the battlefield and that we didn't need that Croatia, but that we should have stayed in the part of Yugoslavia. We are what politics was then and Dr. Franjo Tudjman achieved the goal and the last thing that remains is important, important that in the next 2 to 3 years we will enter the OECD, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122042	The next replica honours Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122043	Thank you, Vice President. You said in your statement that NATO is a fresh 30 countries of Europe and North America and that it is a basic task to safeguard peace and security through the political and military channels of the Member States. The RS has been a NATO member since 2009 unlike Sweden and Finland who have not, but have been our Russian invasion in a changed security environment, and therefore we are talking today about the accession process of the two NATO alliances. The invasion of Russia entered in six months, it is not expected to end so quickly, and what can the Republic of Finland and Sweden expect during this one transitional period until they become full members of NATO? Has the international community shown any intention of helping them during this transitional period in the event of an invasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122044	Well, thank you very much Vice President, so there's a very interesting one thing to normally take during this transitional period that will be somewhere between 4 and, months to 12 months they wanted to sort of secure it. They have been given full bilateral security of 5 countries so far if I am not mistaken and among the strongest, so from North America, the United States, Great Britain, Poland, Germany and I think another country will be very sure to provide them, and other countries will, of course, join it, but these 5 immediately expressed their wish the moment the negotiations to join NATO came that they would ensure that they were attacked. However, one piece of information that Finland may be one of the best-prepared countries, so much for its neutrality. She was preparing herself in the long run because of the fear of Russia's attacks and today she's spending about $6 billion on, therefore, defending herself against many others. countries. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122045	Next replica, the esteemed Nikola Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122046	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Cappelli, as you yourself have said, the North Atlantic Alliance or NATO's shortcuts, which was founded after World War II as a defence alliance for long-term peace, has just been given this, stronger power to make this peace stronger and that all together can prevent certain war conflicts that we unfortunately witness today in Europe as well. On the trail of what you last said, perhaps continue to be heard by our citizens except that they know Finland and Sweden will become, so Finland is a country where a military deadline is required from 18 to 60 years old, where women can go voluntarily. Finland, which can mobilise 280,000 people within a very short period of time, has a reserve of 900,000 military capable people, although it numbers only 5 million people. So 96% of the population is militaryly trained and certainly this will contribute not only to the defence but also to NATO's future strength.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122047	Thank you very much for asking, so one of the data is, say, buying another 64 F35 planes, I think so much, and so far they've had a respectable technique and technology of 100 battle tanks, 107 planes, 19 helicopters, 613 armored transporters, etc., so much for their desire for neutrality that they're not armed, and they're getting ready not to say for decades, decades of defense just from Russia that they expected to one day come in view of the history they have with Russia, given Russia's incursion to the Finnish territory, and what is very important that their neutrality was quite prepared for war with Russia. This only speeded up what they wanted, making sure that with 40% support they came to 70% and some percent support for joining the NATO alliance. It's their wish why we don't let them. Let's tell them we don't want anything like that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122048	Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have well established all the reasons that have been stated through this Charter of Accession of Finland and the Swedish North Atlantic Alliance. An alliance that protects security and stability. He's a military political alliance, but he defends democracy, promotes the economy, and we can only say after we've heard of Finland, Sweden has a professional army of 30,000 soldiers at 10,000, 10 million and 300 inhabitants. There are 34,500 reservers, military deadline was lifted in 2010, but 200 vessels, 240 aircraft, 270 pieces of artillery pipes, 120 tanks and more than 2,700 armored vehicles. Sweden's army continues to be equipped and modernised equally fearing Russia's invasion of Their country, so I think it's confirmation. [[Intruder: Time.]] This law is welcome. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122050	Answer, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122051	So here's what you said the data itself, I would add to that data that the separation of Sweden which is also called neutral is 7.2 billion dollars a year. So they're in that figure that was planned through the NATO alliance, through members and members of the NATO alliance. So 7.2 billion with all that they have that you've mentioned, what they've already got from guns plus they still stand out 7.2 billion dollars a year. I would now say the same question, and imagine if we hadn't all insisted at the end of the desire and the very wish of the people of Montenegro who wanted to join NATO alliance you would have in the Gulf of Montenegro today you might have Russian ships, under Russian flag. So you'd ask how we'd feel in that neighboring neighborhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122052	Next replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122053	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cappelly, we've already had a series of debates on the Committee on Foreign Policy. You know about my position on this matter. But at the plenary session, we could hear a variety of attitudes some of which were critical of NATO, according to NATO's concept. I'm wondering if you can single out one, two, three as many criticisms as you've heard in a plenary debate that you might call a thorough criticism of NATO. So, regardless of what position you will take both as a club and as a representative, can you single out some of the criticisms that you have heard and which you consider to be justified and justified and simply have to be part of the equation when considering politics towards NATO and NATO at all as an alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122054	Well, look, maybe I mentioned it more than once today if someone followed the economy. So, protecting the economy. In my discussions, I have said many times how important the Bospor Dardanelle passage is, for example, Turkey is there because it is also very important for the economy because Turkey itself has offered itself as a NATO member of the alliance to go to negotiations with Russia in the sense that ships that will go from Odessa and that part will be missed, so that there could not be a crisis that could be three times more crisis than this one, and that is that from that pool if we can say North Africa because of the food shortages of cereals, especially coming from Ukraine, which could go through the ship through Bospor and Dardanelle and get to the goal, then in Africa, to reduce the pressure of refugees towards Europe. So it wasn't a criticism, but that's one part that I think economically should work on right now, on that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122055	The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122056	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Cappelli, Croatia is for joining and expanding the NATO alliance of course. The entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO strengthens security, and as you yourself said in your debate, Croatia has been a dedicated NATO member since 2009. With one hard experience, an experience from the Homeland War, it is now, it is now making stability in the neighborhood, but with that security part with the accession of these two countries, you have looked back at that economic one, so here I would ask you once again to tell us the advantages with those security and the economic entry of these two countries into NATO alliances.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122057	Well, at the meetings of the NATO Alliance, and even at the last meeting, it was not only debated the situation and Ukraine exactly looked at the war in Ukraine through the defence part, security, etc., but it was just debated at NATO alliance meetings and, even when the strategic compass was discussed, it was not only about the defence part, but it was about the economic part that just now I mentioned my colleague Glasevic that began to see how important this corridor is and how to create conditions, how energy, but especially food, is constantly talking about energy, gas, electricity, etc., and perhaps less talk about something that might come, which is the lack of a certain type of grain, corn, oil rape, etc., which covers the most important part. We let alone Croatia, which in some ways could be able to cope, but because of this lack, we could come to a large part of the refugees, who, exiles, could come from North Africa, which is precisely to prevent NATO from doing so, that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122058	Time, time. Next replica, respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122059	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here is anyone who says in this assembly that suffers for the past state of insult and demeans Croatian defenders, and in a special way those who have given their lives for this country, means in that country where we are not free we have received our country, a democratic state, but unfortunately there are those who are still crying and suffering for what most Croats have never accepted. As far as NATO's alliance is concerned, it's an open alliance and anyone who wants to join the alliance can join. I think Sweden and Finland with their democracy and with their wealth that they can actually bring to NATO an additional value not only through weapons, not only through money, but through the democracy they have in their own countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122060	Of course, but the geopolitical part is important and one note is, let's say, by entering Finland into NATO alliance, along the border of Finland practically passes the main traffic of the railway and so on and trucking if we can say the traffic that Russia from St. Petersburg is going up to Murmanska, which is about 750 km and which is the corridor for the weapons of ships and submarines that are in that part of the sea above. On the other hand, by entering Sweden and Finland, we are closing the Baltic Sea, becoming the Baltic lake of NATO's alliance if we can say so, so we are ensuring that part. On the other hand, we have ourselves, we are secure to Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, I say as I said before, today we would have Russian ships in the Gulf of Montenegro if it weren't for the NATO alliance. These are realities that we need to look at and feel much safer both in economic and security terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122061	The next replica honours Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's actually my replica has already been answered several times, but I still think it should happen again. Today, especially from our distinguished colleague Bartulice, we heard on several occasions, so it is worth repeating why Croatia did not do something and took advantage of the moment 2017. when Montenegro entered NATO and why didn't we take advantage of that opportunity, so please tell us then, but how much is the difference between Turkey and Sweden and Finland, which is Turkey here because they always as an argument that Turkey was effective and here conditioned, but is the same position of Turkey and Finland and Sweden and Croatia one that is there, who would now be at the Otrant Gate and who would defend the Otrant Gate, would they be there, would there be now Russian ships somehow or would be quite open to Russian ships?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122063	Thank you very much. Well, I just started by saying how important this, this new architecture, which is very important to one double insurance on the part where we haven't had it so far, is in the Baltic part where double borders are being secured, I say as I said before, and we have the biggest lobbyist on joining NATO alliance, it's just President Putin, which more pressures more countries feel insecure and enters NATO alliance. Not to mention what would happen to us now and where we would be today and what might already be under our uniforms if Montenegro were neutral under quotes like Sweden and Finland so far. It would happen to us that this would be the most important port of the Russian Federation, and it is very clear, and this, this architecture has come to an understanding and acceptance much earlier and therefore a step ahead of any participation and the Republic of Croatia because it understands what it means to border Montenegro in a neutral manner under quotes. Russian or the way the Western world thinks it is, after all, democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122064	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122065	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, The very fact that the Croatian Parliament is one of the first parliaments in the EU to decide on the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO states in itself how crucial Croatian and diplomacy is, of course, foreign policy and government responsibility. But I'm gonna go back to the beginning of that presentation of yours. There have been all kinds of debates here, but there have been some debates here in HS of individuals who have spoken really brought us back at some time that I believe that no Croats would ever want to come back again, but there is a whole lot of evidence that some former state, the former Yugoslavia, was better than membership in the EU, the NATO Alliance and all of these associations that Croatia has made a much better country than it was until the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122066	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122067	Every debate in this sense ends the moment we know that someone fought for this country, that someone gave their life, their most important, their families that are gone, today that we don't know where they are. So around it at all, I think it offends us, not all of us here, but all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who were on the first line. Therefore, I think it would be too much to mention some non-classified etc., etc., today we are at the table among the strongest countries and we have the right to vote because no one can enter unless everyone else decides and gives their green light. So by consensus, so this small Croatia with 4 million inhabitants must raise their hands and say yes, and we agree because otherwise these countries will not enter. It's important to be at that table, where it's being decided today, not being on the margins.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122068	Next is the individual debate of the esteemed Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122069	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. So here we can only express our satisfaction today, and this one, support and support the entry of the Kingdom of Sweden and Finland into NATO, given that they will significantly strengthen, significantly give strength, the additional strength of NATO alliances, and thus increase overall security in Europe, in the EU. The practical formal entry of Sweden and Finland has passed, i.e. it flows relatively fast, relatively easy and simple, or at least it seems to us, but it is no wonder that these countries have practically developed their policy for many years, their armed forces in a way and in accordance with NATO standards, they have developed standard operating procedures, NATO tactics, etc. Through various exercises, joint missions with NATO forces around the world, and normally that only their accession or their expressed desire to join NATO goes relatively easily and without major problems. When it comes to joining NATO in 2019, normally there were much more difficulties, that it required much more and more time and effort, etc., given the circumstances that were then and the Republic of Croatia, or the armed forces that had grown up in the Homeland War and which, above all, had the first most important task, to prevent aggression or to defend the Republic of Croatia, then set free and create conditions for joining NATO. That's all I'm gonna mention and that's really the fact that we're already back then, in '91. Mr., I remember General Karl Korinsek, he was then commander of the Operational Zone Osijek who had already said that it would be very good for the Republic of Croatia or the Armed Forces to join NATO as soon as possible and we were already several years later, already there in '94, '93, 4th, etc., started training primarily with the command of the Guard brigades then with the help of the US MPRI teams, training our officers, command structures, adoption of NATO standards, NATO procedures, above all through the decision-making process through adoption, I say, common standards of operational procedures and the possibility, not only to carry out our own operational tasks but also to participate with the Allied Forces, and that is very welcome in the operations of Flash and Storm itself, but also later, at the time, I say, fulfilling the criteria for joining NATO. I'll just mention that precisely these operations, the Flash and Storm and today are mentioned in numerous and study at numerous military universities around the world as an example of how combat operations are successfully conducted. Here and now, I don't know, you've probably read in these various comments, that Ukraine, when it announces now anti-offensive, simply, military analysts judge whether this is a sufficient period, that they've strengthened enough, whether they're qualified enough for such a single operation, and in a positive sense, mentioning exactly the Republic of Croatia and the OSRH that have done this as an example. Of course, after entering Croatia into NATO, there was a time of peace all over Europe, and in some ways, a number of countries were mired in these benefits of peace, so ideas began to emerge about it as practically more armed forces and we do not need them, we do not need certain tribes of the Armed Forces, aviation, etc., because we are members of NATO because we are in accordance with Article. 5, etc., we don't need it anymore, which was very, very wrong. Often the opposition has just pointed out that 2% of GDP is too much money, that it can be spent much smarter, etc., until this situation with Russia's aggression on Ukraine has arrived and we've all realized that the simple development of the Armed Forces, the development of combat capabilities is a permanent task and that there is no joke, simply there, we have to be consistent, I have to work on it completely because we never know when such a situation will simply indicate that we have to do this...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122070	We have several replicas, the first honoured Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122071	We fully support the accession of both Sweden and Finland to NATO membership because, to a large extent, their accession will contribute to strengthening the security of all of us so far. Well, back in the few months since these two states have shown interest in being part of the NATO alliance, some have in some ways denied, not to make fun of, voiced opposition or simply opposed to joining the alliance of Sweden and Finland, and what we could hear here today in this assembly. Well, here's a little comment on that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122072	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122073	Thank you for asking... I'm sorry there's no Mr. Whiteman here right now, so let me give him a little, too, a little response to that replica because he's in favour of the European armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good idea, however, he forgets that Europe just got a little smudged, that they simply did not develop combat potentials. And right now they simply don't have these necessary potentials that they have now shown necessary, and which would have been if it hadn't been for the United States right now and the VB that are very helpful in delivering the weapons, simply wouldn't have, the question of what would be left of Ukraine so far if we had relied solely on the European armed forces. Simple, and we know that these military potentials cannot increase significantly within a month or two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122074	Next replica, respected Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122075	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, well, through today's debate, we have heard the importance of just extending NATO's pact with new members, Sweden and Finland. Also, the importance of Croatia's entry into NATO has been repeatedly mentioned. On our way in, we accepted certain obligations, we accepted the obligations of increased investment and the allocation of funds from the Republic of Croatia's budget to equip the Croatian Army, to raise the defence power of Croatian military forces, but we also accepted the obligation to further train our troops. Given the level of security threat, do you consider it necessary to expand training, i.e. education of a wider number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether through the re-activatement of a compulsory military term or through some other kind of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122076	Vice President, thank you, colleague. Well, I'm just going back to that article. 5 and that's what a lot of people fool, they just think someone's covering for us and someone's protecting us. However, they forget that, in practice, not us but every NATO member must first be able to defend himself and, if necessary, help me and the other members in accordance with that particular article. 5. In this sense, the government, the current government, has also increased the budget or allocation funds for the Armed Forces budget to some at the moment at around 7 billion this year, which is in line with the prescribed standards somewhere around 2% of GDP. In addition, it is also intended for the purchase of fighter aircraft, but on the other hand, funds are provided for the development of the Land Army, i.e. infantry and the raising and training of reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122077	Next replica, dear Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122078	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Shashin. If we remember the start of the North Atlantic Alliance when 12 countries signed a contract in Washington on 4 April 1949, which has now grown to 30 Member States, under the agenda and the goal of preserving freedom and retaining stability and progress, we see that this is exactly what Sweden and Finland want. They enter for the preservation of their freedom, for stability and for progress. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia did not have that privilege in the '90s when we created our own country on the victim, we are in blood, we were not a NATO member, and therefore, unfortunately, today we have both Ovcara and 150 mass graves and for this reason we need to know what it is and not allow it to happen again in Europe again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122079	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122080	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. So those of us who have experienced and experienced the Homeland War in some way may feel a little different about it all together because the simple history has taught us and we never want to make that mistake again. Although we weren't at the time, we could have done anything different than we did. We were neither a recognised state nor an armed force at the time, we were practically from scratch. We had a heart, we had the patriotism of our defenders who, with the help of, I say, and the true leader, our late President Tudjman stood on the bumper, defended ourselves, many then did not believe that we would succeed, simply, as some today do not believe in Ukraine, that they would succeed, I deeply believe in it, and I said it on the first day, if it did not fall apart in the first 5 days, it would surely eventually come out as a winner, of course it takes a little time and material resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122081	Next replica, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122082	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Shashin, you've well established all the facts comparable to our Homeland War. For 105 years, however, Finland has been watching neighbouring Russia, which has inflicted heavy casualties on it, and hundreds of thousands of Finns were dead in the Red Army's wake. Today, when we look at it the way they look, 105 years they've watched and analyzed a big and powerful neighbor, and that's why they're getting ready. 75.73% of respondents in Finland say military emergency and need is mandatory. Why? History taught them. Suffering taught them, everything that happened, says they need NATO umbrellas and help and protection. That's what we certainly do today when we discuss in the Parliament we want them to be safe, not to be threatened like Ukraine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122083	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122084	Vice President, thank you. Mr. Djakić, well recently I was in Sweden and I had little opportunity to talk to their officers, etc., and I felt their wish and their will, or their breathing. Indeed, I am sure that the entry of Sweden and Finland will significantly strengthen the northern wing of NATO up and will in some ways provide additional security for the EU. But also what you point out may not be mandatory but in some way some way training our reserve or our young people in order to in some way enable them to provide or train themselves to defend themselves, and thus the whole, whole, whole country be not able to give God if there is ever a time to defend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122085	The next replica, respected Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122086	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Shaslin, of course this accelerated entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO was caused by what happened to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and there is no dilemma. I wish Croatia had such a quick approach to NATO's 1990s alliance when Serbia and Serbs committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. But what I still want to ask you is if I know you have experience, you were also a Croatian defender for a long time you were commander in the Croatian Army. Perhaps this difference that people may not notice, the difference between Croatian soldiers and even after the Homeland War after '98, we entered NATO alliance and today's Croatian soldier who is trained according to the highest NATO standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122087	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122088	So here's how I would divide it into three kind of time periods. We had a Croatian soldier highly motivated during the Homeland War and right after the Homeland War. Then we had one period when there was a change in political and when this morale was being sought, and all together in a way that was possible to reduce, reduce, break, we all know what was going on with the defenders, how they were marginalized, etc., made a lot of it negative and in the armed forces themselves, and then we finally have this third period when we realize again that the armed forces are very important, very important, very simple and motivation and the ability of the armed forces is increasing significantly, significantly. So these years we can really say that we have a respective armed force, armed forces that respect and a vast majority of the armed forces in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122089	The last replica, the esteemed Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122090	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Russian invasions in Ukraine have completely changed the security environment in Europe and therefore both Sweden and Finland have found themselves in danger and certainly for this reason and have requested NATO accession. I think that Croatia has no valid reason to cross the entry of Sweden and Finland if we know that Croatian diplomacy has actually done everything possible for the Croats in BiH and that these two, two cases are not properly tied up. And for that reason, I think the Croatian Parliament should support this proposal to join Sweden and Finland into NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122091	Vice-President, thank you, fellow Shimičević, I agree absolutely with you that the Croatian Parliament should support this. We absolutely don't have any reason to, but this one doesn't support it. I also know what you wanted to emphasize with that. These concessions from our president who have been in recent months and weeks have indeed done great damage to the reputation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia because such inappropriate statements have only caused damage. This turned out that Croatia is simply not consistent or that two different policies are being conducted, etc. Yeah. I think it is extremely irresponsible, inappropriate for such an institution of the president of the state to come out in public, in the international public. We also saw the reactions of a number of countries that they reacted to, how they isolated him in some way, and finally I think he realized he was wrong too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122092	Thank you. Next individual debate, esteemed Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when Putin launched an aggression on February 24th against Ukraine, and he used one excuse to justify this aggression, which is that he does not want NATO forces at the border with the Russian Federation. And he got exactly the opposite effect. So NATO is expanding. The Western response was the NATO enlargement, of course, at the request of the two European states of Sweden, Finland, which we had heard before, which were the historical reasons why they were neutral, military neutral. Politically they were never neutral or unclassified, they were always on the side of free Western democracies. And they asked for NATO entry and today we decide on it and I believe that tomorrow we will support their NATO entry by a large majority of votes. That, of course, changes geopolitical. A new order in Europe. We may also need to add one piece of information that we have not yet mentioned, which is that Denmark, which is a member of NATO but had opt out, has therefore not taken part in the European defence policy has decided to join this. We therefore have European countries that were members of the EU, not NATO, which are now entering NATO and those who were members of NATO but have not participated in the European defence policy that are now taking part. And now we have an ever-increasing match between the members of both the EU and NATO. We see in the EU's strategic compass that the EU's security is based precisely on NATO's alliance and this is exactly showing a new situation, a new order where Europe as part of the West is developing its capacities, what we call our strategic autonomy of action, but not moving away from the United States, but together with the United States as part of the geopolitical West. Of course, we've heard there'll be some clubs, for example. no wonder those who continue to represent or are trapped I would say in that policy unclassified when they vote against it, they were against Croatia's NATO entry and would otherwise not want NATO to expand. We also heard that there was a chance that when Montenegro came in to solve some bilateral issues. However, I will remind here that then Montenegro was the victim of a single coup attempt where operatives from Russian military intelligence, some, some structures also from Serbia that wanted to stop Montenegro's path to NATO and I wonder, and what if we missed that chance of Montenegro being part of the so-called today. Serbia's world, not to be pro-Westernly oriented by a NATO alliance member. So I think it's completely declassified in that sense to say that it was not good to accept and support Montenegro's entry into NATO in the way we did. A number of other topics are clearly being opened in this debate, and this question was also how Turkey acted in this process. Turkey, of course, has had and has some communication with the United States on a number of topics, strategic topics, from Afghanistan and beyond, and in this case what it has done has not been exactly in progress or in some agreement. There were some states that tried to condition themselves, and they didn't have that deal when we joined NATO. There was an attempt by a referendum in Slovenia to force Croatia to make some territorial concessions, they went through infamously. So a little reality about how these things are done for those who know how to run foreign policy. In any case, Croatia thinks we should support the entry of both Finland and Sweden into NATO, thus repeating our commitment to being part of the West, that we are part of the Western democracy community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122094	Replica first, respected Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122095	Thank you very much, Vice President. As part of the OSCE delegation, I took part together with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Birmingham, the Birmingham Declaration, which undoubtedly condemns all 57 members of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, also contains a conclusion concerning the activities that all Member States and all countries are obliged to implement in terms of achieving world peace and stabilisation in terms of war interruption, and also reducing all the consequences of human rights to the economic and economic crisis. I think today's debate and what we will vote in the Croatian Parliament is precisely on the trail of this and that one of these activities and the expansion of NATO is, or enlargement for the members of Sweden and Finland, that it will just contribute to this goal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122096	Thank you, fellow Simic, for your question or comment. I agree that we are contributing to a stronger and better situation in Europe by receiving Sweden and Finland to NATO. As for the role of the OSCE, it is still an organisation in which the Russian Federation is present, and the United States is present. I recently spoke with Reinhold Lopatko, who was on behalf of the OSCE both in Kiev and in this way helped, encouraged a dialogue that we hope will enable, and we see that it is going in this direction, that agreement to be implemented for the export of cereals from Ukraine, which is of course important for the world's safety, especially for the diet in, in the world today, to remove that blockage for Ukrainian cereals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122097	The next replica honours Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122098	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, an organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty or NATO, has the task of preserving the common values of allies, which is democracy, individual freedom, rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution, but it is also a task to preserve peace by political and military means. In Croatia, we have hoped somehow after the Homeland War that we will not be in such a quick situation that peace should be preserved and any political or military way, but the invasion of Russia has shown that this is not the case and when we put it into context, in the context of the geopolitical situation of the Republic of Kosovo, it is important to stress that as the 29th state entered NATO, as in 30th of 2020, northern Macedonia entered, and as a possible focus in our vicinity is certainly the Republic of Kosovo, and do you think that there is a possibility that there will soon be an initiative to launch the issue of Kosovo's entry into NATO alliance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122099	Thank you so much, colleague Pocrnic Radošević. I think that as far as NATO's further expansion is concerned, we are already more or less all NATO countries except for Serbia which is not and does not want to be, and then we have Kosovo and BiH that are not in NATO, but that is why NATO is present in these countries, and in this way I think that one architecture is being completed, but it opens and leaves the door open and BiH and Kosovo are also becoming members if, if they so wish, in any case, I think that Croatia will certainly be supporting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122100	The next replica honours Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122101	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, anyone who has had reason to support the confirmation of these protocols on accession to Sweden and Finland NATO, understanding the overall security but also the political situation. Anyone with any understanding of foreign policy knows that these issues cannot be solved by the behavior of an elephant in glass in a way that is valued because it can then cause far-reaching consequences. We have seen, for example, how long this NATO accession process lasted for Macedonia because it was exposed to various blackmails, and what has significantly affected security in that part of Europe. You have touched in your presentation of both the European defence forces and certain advances on the geopolitical scene, so I would ask you to tell me a little bit more about this, what your expectations are in some subsequent period related to the European defence forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122102	Thank you, colleague Petir, for this matter, it seems to me that we are entering one stage when it is absolutely necessary for the EU to further develop its defence capacities, but it is important to do so precisely in the way in which the strategic compass is detailed, and this is not in the opposite, not as a competition with NATO, but that NATO and the alliance are then with the United States as a major, major ally within NATO, to develop, to develop European capacities so that Europe can act autonomously strategically. But I repeat not so that it will be in competition, not opposing, but together with American allies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122103	At 15:30 we will begin with the next point means a proposal to launch a trust issue to Gordan Grlic Radman, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we will continue this point once we have finished that point. The next replica, the esteemed Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122104	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Stier, you are long in foreign policy and you well know what the situation says in the wider environment, and I am interested in your comment or opinion that Russia has succeeded in its efforts in 10 days in some way occupying Ukraine, perhaps today we would have armed conflicts somewhere in the neighborhood or near our borders. It is also likely that European unity would be at stake, given the difficult economic and economic situation that it is. I would like to know how you comment on the views of individual European countries that often put their personal interests ahead of the interest of the EU or the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122105	Dear colleague Shashin, the fact is that Russia has achieved some tactical shifts now. Of course, it was not like that Blitzkrieg that appeared at first and simply in this regard we see that it may have even overestimated the quality, the power of the conventional forces of the Russian Federation. It remains a nuclear force and should never be underestimated, however, it may have been overestimating how the Russian Federation will act, or its armed forces at the outset. But the answer was unique to the EU and to the West, there are certainly different tones, but this unity is still in place and it is crucial, for example, around. This is about receiving Sweden and Finland what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122106	Next replica, respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, I'd like to ask you the same question that I asked my colleagues to. So, with certainly a number of positive NATO memberships, there are certain criticisms of NATO as concepts, NATO as organisations. Some of them we could hear today in the debate. Can you single out a few of them that you think are justified? I think it's just from the position of balancing the argument that I'm saying, so regardless of the attitude that you and your party are going to take, about the attitude that I end up taking, that's what we remember from the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, but here's just whether we can single out some of the arguments critical and just be simple, that we have one balance in this argument in the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122108	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic, for that question. NATO would probably not exist as a collective defence system that the collective security system works. So, after '45. with the UN, it was thought that the collective security that the UN was to organise would be sufficient. It was very quickly seen at the beginning of the Cold War that it was not so and that collective security simply did not work because although the idealistic approach that President Roosevelt had at the beginning had at the beginning, and on the trail of Wilson's foreign policy simply the reality was something different. And that is why a collective defence system was to be organised, which is why NATO needs it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122109	The next replica honours Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122110	In such complex circumstances, the essence of each diplomacy is to come up with something for its national interests. Croatian diplomacy does nothing, as well as what it would do. What is the international position of Croatia we could see the other day at Dubrovnik Forum and how your boss and your government are viewed by international partners. No one relevant from Europe and the world has come to this conference. And another piece of evidence that we have witnessed these days is the Resolution of the Bundestag on BiH in which Croatia is placed in the same basket as the Republic of Serbia that was convicted of genocide. Thus, Croatian diplomacy showed how much it serves the state of Croatia. It's called zero points. Croatian diplomacy is used to imprison the godmothers of your boss Plenkovic such as a certain Showing the son of a Yugoslav Show or Hidaje Biscevic associate of UDBE who works against Croats in the Republic of Serbia. If they reach your ruling coalition of this indisputable and irrefutable fact, or if you all live together in your pink parallel world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122111	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122112	Thank you, colleagues, for that. With the support of the ruling majority, the government of the Republic of Croatia supports the equality of Croats in BiH as a constituent people, also seeks to change the electoral law, as also sought by courts, the European court and the BiH Constitutional Court. Such a policy has led to criticism, even criticism in the Bundestag, but that does not mean that we must give up on that policy. The argument whether or not someone came, and there were criticisms on Tudjman's policy from the international community, gave us no need to organise Operation Storm, so we should continue to support the Croats in BiH, equality as a constituent people, regulation and a European perspective of BiH, but also that all the nations, the constituent nations, will be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122113	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122114	He's been injured. 238. because this is an insult to MPs and the demeaning of MPs because you are, in fact, trying to create a manipulative untruth, comparing Tudjman and the circumstances when Croatia was an unwanted child in the entire world community with the current situation where your boss Plenkovic unwarrantedly and falsely whines some successes in the EU, and Dubrovnik Forum and other examples that I have cited clearly testify that your government has no results in diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122115	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, no, you went on purpose in such a comparison, you went to be criticized for not showing up or not showing up or having critical voices, for example. in the Bundestag, but we need to talk about the metrics, which is why these criticisms came about, because of a policy that requires equality of all constituent peoples in BiH. I think such a policy should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122117	It was a replica for you, so you get a warning. And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122118	Yes, again. In 238, a fellow representative persists in insulting the reprisals. So when you talk about successes and your diplomacy and your government, all countries in these circumstances take care of their national interests, and Croatia pays more expensive fuel than countries where the standard is four times higher, and you have not responded to the godmothers of your boss, certain people from the former South system who fall in love with that same foreign ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122119	And you get a second warning. It's a replica, Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122120	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, here we all have witnessed that over the past 2 years. The entire world order has been living in extraordinary circumstances, after which we are now witnessing a global energy crisis which is partly caused by Russian aggression in Ukraine, although both the West and most modern worlds have unanimously and unitedly condemned aggression, in particular 141 UN members, on the other hand we are witnessing that a new line of iron curtains is currently being withdrawn in Eastern Europe that enemies become friends and that some new alliances are being created, or that we could be able to say freely and some new future world order that uses all these uncertaintys that are happening. And for this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HS, as the most legislative body, must make responsible, quick and key decisions like this one today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122121	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122122	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. At one point, I thought maybe you'd accuse me, too, for the first time, that I'd heard that I was connected to some participatory, mostly accused me of coming from hostile migration, but for this second, for this second time, that's always the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122123	I told your boss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122124	This one, but your question was about a new order and it is really being created in front of our eyes, a new bipolarism I would say, not as ideological as it was during the Cold War but more on some geopolitical basis, but there is also part of it, of course and valuable, if you want and ideological because on one side are autocracy, and Croatia is on this side of the free world of Western democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122125	Next replica, dear Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122126	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Stier, you have begun your debate by saying that Putin has just explained his aggression on Ukraine by the fact that he does not want NATO at the borders of the Russian Federation. We are now discussing Finland's entry into NATO, and NATO is now coming to its borders. But what I want to ask you as an experienced diplomat is about the president of the Republic of Croatia. Two three months before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, practically our President of the Republic had an understanding of Putin's views, later when it came to Finland and Sweden's turn to join NATO there almost opposed their entry or blackmailed the international community. I wonder how much this really harms the Republic of Croatia in the world, those attitudes of his?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122127	Thank you, colleague Totgergeli. And you see, what is important to say here, which is that at first, at least to anyone who understands this was clear that Croatia would support the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO, and at the very end of the line that attitude supported and raised the hand to enter Sweden and Finland and the president of the republic at the NATO summit. As far as maybe consistency is concerned, such an attitude seems to me to be one debate that we can safely discuss here at the internal meeting and we've led it and I've pollomised it several times in the media space, and as far as foreign policy is concerned, it was good that he still denied what he was saying earlier and that he supported the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122128	Next replica, the esteemed Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122129	Your Honor, Vice President. A fellow Stier, today a lot of things, talked in the direction, compared the reactions of the Western world and Russia and tried to level it there, now there's a fight or war between America and Russia and put everything else aside. Comparing even Western democracy and the way it works and we have seen how it can even enter NATO alliance, into the EU, consensus, etc., so it's very democratic and compare Russia and how Russia decides whether to go into war with whom, what and how, and how, an absoluteism, one way of ruling, and so perhaps to comment a little while we remember very well the destruction of the Berlin Wall and the offer, under quotes, America that this same Russia, if it's interested, can enter NATO if it wants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122130	Thank you, colleague Cappelly, for that question. The fact is that after the Cold War in NATO, a special council for NATO and Russia's co-operation was reached, and there was one attempt to create a new order based on co-operation, not security competition with the Russian Federation. Unfortunately after 24 February, it is quite clear that it is impossible, unfortunately, if you will, to enter a new phase that I have mentioned or characterized as a new type of bipolarism, what is clearly the position of Croatia in this. We're on the West side, we're on the side of free democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122131	Next individual debate, respected Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122132	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's nice to meet you. Okay. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here, following the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine that it has created, I would say, the biggest security crisis since the Second World War, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden have shown their concern about the current security geopolitical situation that is directly reflected and developed among other things to the security of Finland and so on and Sweden. Both countries have therefore expressed their wish and intention to become members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, i.e. NATO, a NATO alliance whose primary task is to preserve peace and security, i.e. the common values of allies, it is democracy, individual freedom, the rule of law and a peaceful solution to conflict, and it is a political and military way. The NATO Council and its 30 states, the Allies state made a unanimous decision on the open road for the reception of 2 new members, Finland and Sweden into its alliance, and now the ratification of decisions by 30 parliaments, and of course the HS. I'm glad we're among the first, I think we're going to be the seventh, and I'm glad we're going to be among the first countries to ratify these contracts. A recent NATO summit in Madrid can indeed be characterized, I would say a historic milestone. It has been said enough today that, in fact, a few months ago, this has been unimaginable which, which alliances are being created, which all states and which all and ultimately and political forces and political forces, if you will, groups, agree now and agree with this move of Finland and Sweden and which will give their consent and raise their hand. So time, in times we're, we're, we're in times where it's really thorough, everything changes from the ground up and at a very high rate. The Alliance has not only decided on its expansion, but has changed a strategy which, unfortunately, I underline it, indeed, the Russian Federation has now become the biggest danger from NATO's partner, and that is why it has actually turned everything upside down. What was thought to be a thing of the past, now somehow caught up with us and, somehow, became a reality that we couldn't even imagine. And Putin, if Putin wanted to achieve something, he's... he's incomprehensible to these, of course he's become, he's really done quite the opposite. He united both Europe and the United States and Canada and forced them to focus with such intensity and so much strength that this would indeed be one of those, as I have already pointed out, one historic milestone. So far, Finland and Sweden have strictly led a policy of military neutrality for decades, not wanting to compromise the strength ratio or the security situation in the neighborhood, and of course, they never wanted to irritate the Soviet Union back then and later the Russian Federation. After the collapse, of course, the Soviet Union in '91. Finland and Sweden remained neutral even though they were approaching the EU, they approached, of course, in '95. have become EU members, but as I have already noted, they have remained neutral despite all of this, precisely not to irritate this, in fact, equilibrium. Sweden has not been part of any military alliance for more than two hundred years and has maintained that neutrality even during World War II, which we could hear today, several times. On the other hand, Finland has moved to neutrality after itself, we know history, defeat by the Soviet Union in World War II, however, the Russian invasion in Ukraine has shaken all these relationships... [[Intruder: Time.]] Then I'll continue in final. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122133	We do. No, I don't. We've got a few replicas. Dear Anita Pocrnic Radošević. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122134	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Busic. In the context of the accession of R. Finland and K. Sweden to NATO, in which the main reason is the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we also need to discuss a changed security environment for the Republic of Croatia. A part of the public may not even know that Montenegro has been a NATO member since 2017 in a process that began in 2006 by calling on Montenegro to join NATO membership, which it accepted and received. Since you are actively following international relations, what does NATO's accession to you mean for Montenegro, and what does it mean for the Republic of Croatia, given our geographical location and position of Montenegro in the Adriatic Sea, but also in the Mediterranean Sea? Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122135	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what I was just talking about with my colleague Stier's replica. I was actually just about to explain exactly what you asked, colleague. Namely, we're talking about 2017 when Montenegro... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Okay, I thought you didn't. ... So, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are talking about 2017 when Montenegro joined NATO, and there were really questions here that, of course, have the right to, which compared that we could use in 2017, as Turkey now used in 2022 and conditioned Sweden, that is, to take advantage of that opportunity to Sweden and Finland, and I wanted to compare how much, which is the difference between one Turkey and one that conditioned, conditioned in this way that we all know that I am not repeating, and Croatia [[Intruder: Please allow your colleague to finish.]] which is in the interest of, in fact, the interest to close actually [[Intruder: Time.]] Otrant door [[Intruder: Time.]] And the freedom of this, where would we be today? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122136	We have another replica, a respected Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122137	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Busic. You have rightly pointed out that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed our security environment because it is an aggression against freedom of choice, democracy, international law and this move of Finland and Sweden is certainly logical in this security sense. We have already heard what NATO is getting through their accession because it is about countries that have been developing their army for many years, which have their navy, have military industries, new technologies, but perhaps we haven't touched enough today to release some supply routes through the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, especially in terms of food and energy that are being blocked today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122138	That's exactly what I'm talking about. I hope we'll have a chance to discuss it and touch it and that's exactly what I wanted to say finally, exactly what you said, you just said now. So it's not just, we get, NATO alliance or, of course, Croatia, because we're part of that family, we get really one strong support at the end and direction of working, supply routes, and fellow Cappelli said that we're actually closing that entire area with NATO, we're actually getting one Baltic lake, which is now called from the Baltic Sea, of course, and what, and as far as that goes, so we all know here that Finland and Sweden are one of the strongest and most powerful countries and with the strongest economies that have developed their defence capacity, so they're an immeasurable gain to NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122139	It's okay. Now we're gonna take 10 minutes off, and we're gonna start with this next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122140	Well, the point is now, and we got the agenda. So, uh, I'd like to ask the Bureau of Parliament to respect the agenda. The HS cannot be based on the will of the prime minister. HS is above the prime minister and we need to finish this point and then proceed with the second point. This is embarrassing what you've been doing since HS. It's 3:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122141	Now we're going back to the point we broke up. Nikola Grumoja's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122142	Thank you. Here we are all day, my colleague Bulj has spent the night in this burned area with our firefighters, but still here as many of us as we from HDZ have called no opposition, there is opposition, there is opposition, there we are, we are also discussing the impeachment of Minister Grlic Radman, but also on this topic of entering Sweden and Finland into NATO. So, said counterpart Rasudiæ, our principled position, therefore, to support the wish of every sovereign state, of course, if it meets the conditions to, to approach the associations it considers necessary. But it should also be said that Croatia and the present minister did not take advantage of, this government does not have any mechanism at our disposal to protect Croatian national interests. I spoke here earlier in this discussion about the relationship with Serbia, we talked a lot, especially my colleague Rasdic sees that his HDZ colleagues are in a lot of pain, so they mention him even when he's not here and today they've actually made him the best possible ad, especially his colleague Kapulica, when he pulled out statements criticising the current President Milanovic. They keep talking like he's some kind of chat, so this president from Pantovic, and then they pull out a statement where Nino Rasdic is fiercely critical of President Milanovic. So they deny themselves and there they are shown how executed they are, how powerful our arguments are here and how much they show that Croatia finally needs a sovereign policy and people like Nin Rasdic who are always on the Croatian national line. And not those who are obedient, who are chats, who follow the Maxim, as he said to his colleague Rasudic, tie the horse where he tells you to. And that is the policy supported by Plenkovic's HDZ today. Unfortunately, we could also see this during President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic when Ante Deur was sitting there and when it was actually forbidden for President Kolinda to mention great Serb aggression. I don't know if Mr. Deur was involved in those negotiations with Alexander Vukic, but that was, too, and that was agreed on being a national high treason. So that's where you work and you can say freely that there's a national high treason. As with high treason, I would not be as kind as my colleague Pavliček as that is something Minister Grlic Radman does well, but that is not enough. No, Minister Grlic Radman and for that we have presented evidence here concealing corruption, Minister Grlic Radman did not make a single move after what Bundestag did or invited the Ambassador of Germany to talk, nor sent a protest note, nor responded in any way. Nor is the Croatian Parliament, here is Vice President Sanader, whether the Bureau of Parliament has done anything, whether the president has called on the Bureau to send a letter to Bundestag. Nothing. Zero. Zero. It's your policy and it's not just in this case. So, I set the example of these people who came to me, so the families of the missing from Sotina who have been deceived, were deceived by Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and Ante Deur, were also deceived by Minister Grlic Radman, pressing charges in Serbia themselves, and they are being sued for immaterial damage without any help or anyone asked them for health, nor did anyone ask them if you needed help with the financing of the lawyer and everything else. So that's Croatian politics. And I'm here today from protesting this servant, obedient policy I won't talk about Sweden and Finland, what I'm interested in are Croatian national interests. Croatian national interests. And when I talk to anyone and I'll tell Croatia first, then USAID can go second, for example, but Croatia first. It is a national and sovereign, sovereign policy and I expect it from this government, from this minister, but unfortunately the Croatian people do not get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122143	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122144	Honorable Vice President 239, please, Mr. Grumoy, if you don't know anything, you can't claim it. You insult, you're no sovereign, you're depraved about lying because you don't know something, you're a man who doesn't even have respect for values except in his political act. Because you can go to Metkovic's, ask if you can have a cup of coffee? How are you feeling down there? You know what you're saying is false, lying. [[- Intruder: Excellent.]] Insinuation it's the only thing you know and what you're doing. [[Intruder: Time.]] This time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122145	You used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Please don't ask anything. [[I would, I would ask the Assembly.../]] Here's a replica. You're getting a warning from Mr. Grmoya. [[Intruder: I would like to ask the parliamentary services so my colleague today has 10 injuries to the Rules of Procedure.]] You get a warning, another warning, and you lose your right. [[Intruder: During today.]] You're not in charge of the comments here. Marko Milinović litre, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122146	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's my colleague, Grmoy, we've moved on to the first subject, we're back in the morning. The theme is Sweden and Finland, the context of NATO, the NATO Alliance, so I will ask you since Croatia is the first one that I can sign, we have had a huge incident that I would say has been forgotten, and this is the drop of a drone that weighs more than 6 tonnes, more than 14 meters long, in the city center of all Croats has fallen and today we don't know what happened. I believe that we benefit from the NATO alliance, but it should serve as a weapon or another supplement, not as the main axis of Croatia's national capabilities, military capacities and military equipment. We were obviously not ready for something by showing one great uncertainty in national, national security. So I want your opinion on it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122147	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122148	So, I agree with this one, so we joined the NATO Alliance for the security of our country and our citizens, and then I guess that defence shield should work. It cannot happen that two, two member states pass that drone and no one responds. So you have to determine who's responsible so that it doesn't happen again. So, it definitely needs to be questioned, but it was used at one point by the rulings who were scaring the public with it because then they were in the middle of an affair I think every day we're having some sort of affair with some HDZ minister or HDZ, but then it was useful for the Prime Minister because they were arrested by Horvat and they were afraid with that drone, when it was over, now this drone story is over. So, I agree with you that we should definitely examine this, determine the gaps so that these failures don't repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122149	Miro Bulj, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122150	He's a friend of Grumo's. Instead of being a strong and tough Croatian policy, in this case as regards the entry of Sweden and Finland, and to use the Croats in BiH, to put it on the table and to solve this problem forever, they will be servantly, semitronically, as it will be, the result will be cheaper, no matter what you have done for the Croats, colleague Kapulica? Forgotten, left behind, they serve you only for the voting machine and the other, since Deur has 15 warnings, at least you could get one warning because this is really from the bench to speak, Mr. Chairman, 17 warnings he had. ... No matter what you do, you're ruined. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have destroyed the Croats in BiH, but they will survive because this power will have to be passed and a sovereign policy must come to protect neither Sweden nor Finland nor the US or Russian interests, but only above all [[Intruder: Please.]] Priority are Croatian interests... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122151	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122152	Well, the question wasn't addressed to me, so it was kind of a finding to the HDZ colleagues, so I can agree that Croatia should lead a sovereign national policy. We are not a great force, we are not a great country, we cannot surely achieve all the great powers that can therefore and some other interests that are not what we are looking for, we are not looking for bread over a cake, we are asking that Dayton be respected, to respect the Constitution of BiH, the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Some of the forces we already have, especially these greatest forces, can demand much more in these international relations, be much more rude, we need to look for partners, try to convince our partners that what we're looking for is real, real, and that we deserve it, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122153	Mario Capula, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122154	Thank you very much. I'd have one question right now and if we put the ball down, I'd be interested in the answer. So, President Zoran Milanovic recently, there was also this opportunity, and some thought it was an opportunity for BiH to also get candidate status. He said that, he was talking about the poor and distracted BiH that needs that candidate status that doesn't mean anything anyway, but gives hope. Now, there's no colleague of yours, but I'm sorry about that, and that's one of... However, he also said in 2020, not in 2010, counterpart Rasdic, that it should be made clear, not only that Croatia will not support the European path of BiH, but that it will also block obtaining candidate country status until the election law changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we know that in the moment Milanovic says that, the electoral law has not been changed, he insists on election law So I'm wondering what's the point of view here? [[I get the question.]] [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122155	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122156	I understand your question. So the statements are different. In 2020, counterpart Rasdic said BiH should therefore be conditional on meeting some conditions, resolving the EU's Electoral Law, President Milanovic said in 2022 that, regardless of the unresolved Croatian issue, BiH should be included in the EU, thus perhaps stabilising it, removed from the Russian influence. The circumstances are not the same, it is clear to you that we have Russian aggression in Ukraine, we are at risk of escalating the crisis in BiH via R. Srpska. The question is therefore how should Croatia be asked. I'm not sure that by stopping BiH, then, on that road, we would have achieved our interests because who doesn't want a European path to BiH? Most of all, R. Serbian maybe, right? And if we stop them, then we won't solve the election law issue. I'm formerly, now you're going to say I'm a Milanese, but... I'm used to having them admitted. [[Intruder: Time.]] Which, even though it wasn't settled. [[Invader: Marijan Pavliček, next replica.]] So, and I can't comment statements... [[Mr. Grmoya, past tense.]] Okay, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122157	Marian Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122158	Dear counterpart Grmoja, here I am at the end of this last debate because I was raised to give my hand to my colleague Grlic Radman because I respect the minister's institution, regardless of what he congratulated me on, but here, you also got the 33rd representative who supports your initiative, which is unitary Bosniak politics, that is Komsic, that is Izetbegović. Do you think that this initiative, signed by your representatives, has caused dissension and damage to the Croatian people in BiH? I personally believe that not because I believe that this is precisely the point of democracy, that we point to problems in one cultural way and that no policy is sacred to cows, so neither is HDZ policy, nor is today-to-day policy of any of us, if we are part of or rule, and therefore the opposition is there to quality say what the problems are on their part.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122159	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122160	Do you know if you would be an ally of unitary politics and political Sarajevo? That we were looking for the recall of Grlic Radman because he's messing with BiH. Then they would celebrate us much more and say, you see, even in Croatia they say that Croatia should not interfere in BiH, as the left opposition once claimed, have improved a little, except We can!, they still need to be repaired. So these others are much better than they were. And this one, what is the measure here, so who has damaged Croatia's position? Prime Minister Plenkovic here with his statement that President Milanovic, when he said the first soap then perfume, in fact, led to Bosniaks giving up amendments to the election law. Well, they've voted us three times already. So Milanovic's statement can't be the reason now that Bosniaks don't agree to amendments to the electoral law when we've been voted three times already, and That statement is not at all controversial, if we're going to this one or that one... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122161	Next Individual Discussion Honored Hrvoje Zekanovic, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's losing his right. Final debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, was respected Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a moment, it kind of sounded like we were back at that earlier point, but I think we're on NATO's accession now. Okay. Here, I'll pick up where I left off in an individual debate, but now I'm just gonna speak for the club. The HDZ Club will really support this and strongly and loudly support these proposals, and today, I think we are really finishing one, and here, we end a good story with this debate for the NATO alliance and for our own, indeed, for our safety. Now, there's been a lot of debate and emphasis today, and here, again, this one kind of emphasized itself in these few minutes, so that some blackmails, let's either call obligations or conditions, let's call it whatever we want, but that's actually a condition setting, so I'd kind of ask my colleagues to think about how much these conditions and conditions have brought benefits. Ever, not only to Croatia, but to anyone. Today, Turkey, I have talked about it today, Turkey, how and how Turkey has conditioned and we all know it, we have read about it very much, and in addition, we have heard loud and clear answers both this and the presidents of Finland and Sweden to the Turkish conditions and demand, as well as answers to actually the Prime Minister. They were clear, so it won't answer them, but it'll be a matter of court. It's not exactly how people can be extradited, and I think that we absolutely now disagree with Turkey that they now and they won't do it as democratic states, countries that have very stable democracy, they have their own way of doing it and doing it and be sure, I would dare say that they, they will hardly be extradited, so I think they will never. So, about how much she did, but no, we don't want to talk about it at all because it's Turkey and let her, she has the right to do what she wants, but I would like to, here today, colleague Ivo Stier was talking about how we got in in 2009. Was that okay? How are we doing, how have we been experiencing it? And we today to one Sweden and Finland, countries as well as developed democracies, with so many developed, all the elements of the functioning of one state, one, one strong economy, strong.../incomprehensible...... strong defence system, that we condition something, please, gentlemen, I think it's really more politics than any hope that we can achieve. So, I think we missed a lot of things in the debate today, as far as this topic is concerned, and that's why I want to, and besides, in 2017 when Montenegro entered NATO and Croatia really supported Montenegro, so let's just imagine what it would mean today, which would mean that Montenegro didn't happen to enter NATO in 2017. It wouldn't be easy for us to have the Adriatic now, actually free. And as much as Croatia would be protected from the danger of entering through the Otrant Gate, they simply enter their warships into the area of Montenegro or Boka Kotorska Bay. So let's be careful when we talk about these things and how and how they block and if that's the way, and that's why I have to say one more thing that we should be proud that HS will be, I emphasize, among the first, among the first which will ratify tomorrow with the pride of these two agreements. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122163	Next debate, Davor Dretar. He's gone. He's losing his right. Katarina Peovic, she's losing her right, she's gone. Miro Bulj in the name of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122164	Can Croatia condition something or not as a full member of NATO and European integration? Let's go back to the way Croatia went, passing the way to enter both European and North Atlantic integration. We had to arrest all the generals, humiliate the Homeland War and those greatest values, remember Vladimir Seks' words after the meeting of Stjepan Mesic, the perjurer of the elementary disaster and Ivo Sanader, when Seks said, as Parliament president, he then arrested, located, transferred and prosecuted Ante Gotovina. Let us remember the pressures of Savudrija, Piran Bay, from Slovenia, they did whatever they wanted, they conditioned we were literally on our knees thrown, but these are also our policies. However, Croats in BiH have been left behind in this case by Croatia. The President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic, in my opinion, well advocated that I agreed with him, did not agree that we would condition that the Croats achieve their goals and aspirations to join us. The EU. But in the end, he failed, and eventually he turned tail at a crucial moment when he was supposed to be very sharp, but at that point he paused. That is why the minister must recognise that Croatia must value the Croats in BiH more, the interests of the Croats in BiH regardless of Finland and Sweden and its interests, Finland and Sweden. To me, it is more of a priority for Croats in Bish than for Finland and Sweden not to belittle them, but to us, they are not our politics. Our policy is not because we haven't even spoken in my opinion what Zoran Milanovic as the president represents the tribunal is to represent the entire government and the president regardless of who the president is and which political options from. However, the Croatian government, headed by the prime minister and Minister Grlic, does not have the power because they respect only the Brussels instructions. Only and only, not the interests of the Croatian people, and we must be firm and fierce. I would now quote a national tribunal before World War II, it will be, it will be inappropriate, which Paul Krce, who gave a speech significant even entered as a man who did not even have a primary school, entered the Belgrade then assembly. But one day I'll say it, maybe now is not the time late is the age, it should be in... For hours when it's more public attention and I'm going to quote it one day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we didn't have what Paul Cruce was then a river. No strength, no strength. The People's Tribune. I don't know the Ministers why you're wrestling in BiH where you came from and where we're from in Sinj, why the Sinjans and the Cetinjans left them? Why did we leave them crucified on the cross? Why don't they have their own representatives, why aren't they integrated? Which, together with us, is part of ours, is our constitutional obligation to take care of the Croats in BiH. They're there below the national minority level. They have no constitutionality, absolutely none. These people are forgotten Livno, Tomislavgrad they're neighboring municipalities, cities, I think it's the same body. If we don't stand firm and fierce with these people, if we don't condition ourselves at a given time when we have a chance like this at the time of the entry of Sweden and Finland, no matter what democracy they look at their own interest and they will look at their interest, they will not look at the interest of the Croats in BiH. And the equality of Croats in BiH, i.e. Unitarian policy prevailed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Unitrativist policy, Barcharsian policy promoted most by Izetbegović, Stipe Mesic and this silence loud and resistance to combating Croats and conditionality if the Croatian trial The government has failed here. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122165	Here you go, Miro Totgergeli, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122166	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Bulj hurt 238th by insulting the intelligence of our MPs because he talks here that the Croats in BiH have been left behind and why we left them behind, while talking about how he agrees with what Milanovic is doing, and forgets that just in 2010 Milanovic went to BiH and contributed to this status of Croats in BiH by supporting Komsic and Bosniak politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122167	You're getting a warning. This was your replica. Miro Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122168	Thank you very much. Injured Article 238, I said since the President of the Republic of Croatia has advocated the position to condition the entry of Sweden and Finland and that in the end, in order to solve the problem of Croats, he has eventually failed to turn tail now in the final step. I think together that should be the attitude that my position is not the president's what he's saying. As for the HDZ policy towards the Croats in BiH, it is absolutely cemetery. The Croats were forgotten there, left behind, and you have no firm and tough politics, a fierce policy towards this relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122169	And you, it was a replica to you you get a warning, it's your third warning you lose the right word until the end of this topic. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122170	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you. If I could, I'd lend you my own, one replica. Okay, yeah, yeah. [[I said.]] So I think today one was an extremely important foreign policy topic that should be seen comprehensively, which should be seen in those beginnings of the independence of the Croatian state which, as a small state, had to prove, affirmed its values in order to justify recognition in the international community, international recognition. That was the hardest way. Of course, freedom was to be fought, which was not easy. NATO membership in 2009, a transformed NATO guaranteeing security and defence, was the only natural goal of Croatian foreign policy, President Tudjman, who knew that Croatia belonged to the Western civilization circle. So NATO membership also means accepting NATO values, the principles of solidarity and open policy. Sweden and Finland, today there have been a lot of speeches, have wished for membership and Croatia strongly supports them because it is the meaning of the union, the meaning of the alliance. Finland and Sweden Mr. Bulju are members of the EU, I assume that you, apart from being mayor of Sinja, probably have this broad picture of the very complexity of the international community. So we're not alone in the world. The world is one composition of states of various interests, a lot of actors where you need to survive as a small state, where you need to talk, negotiate, be involved, not be conflicting, as you here now point out President Milanovic who you say is fierce, that he knows what the goals are, etc. When you look at President Milanovic with all due respect, we should again consider the fact that he did while he was prime minister. While he was prime minister of what he did for the position of the Croatian people in BiH, then situations and opportunities were much more favourable. There's a lot of cement left. The worst thing you know is when the foundation goes, on the ground, stone to stone, then it's much harder to degrade. What the Croatian government is doing, I'm sorry, Mr. Bulj, so I'm looking at you here and I respect you not to see, not to see, you're blinded by hate. You cannot find anyone in Croatia better than this government and Andrej Plenkovic. Don't get into a situation where I've lost my ignorance, I've had the ignorance of losing the knowledge, give yourself a little thought politically. You think about it a little bit, you know the more a man knows, the more complex it is. Socrates when he was at the highest level of knowledge was celebrated, then he said now I just know I don't know anything. Well, that's the greatest act of intellectual humility. And you think it's all simple, just like that. Milanovic said and it's over. It's a parolee, Mr. Bull. What kind of mechanisms are political, there is Milanovic. So Milanovic has done so much damage to the Croatian reputation in the international world. He has compromised all of its external political goals that are now under way. So it all reflects, reflects on the standard of Croatian citizens, on one problem Croatia. Did you want to bring Croatia into such a position? Are you following all these processes that are happening? How are you gonna do if you're here saying you're not and Mr. Grmoja said it wasn't Milanovic's as if there was some kind of subconscious syndrome, so it points out. So you're just proving... No, you're, uh, you're just proving that you're his, uh, tin soldier, so you're someone who advocates his views. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know, in Istanbul, at the court of the Sultan, there used to be a special position for you people called evetefendy. Their job was just to master, they nodded their heads. So, you're here, here you've advocated means Milanovic advocates blocking Sweden and Finland's NATO entry unless the election law is resolved. [[Intruder: You've described well.]] What kind of store is that? What kind of blackmail is that? Well, it's not a practice in countries, democratic states of Europe, the world, the EU. To blackmail these two countries by electoral law. The change of the electoral law is settled in another way, and it is resolved by the Croatian government, but by agreements, talks with allies, with partners, and not by this you know of some sort over the knee of the solutions. Because Milanovic has absolutely no solution for anything other than having parole and people who may be limited in some knowledge, and they may still be hardhearted, they accept it and think it's something that's very good, and they don't think about it anymore. Because politics you know isn't, it's not something that's just like that, everyone can deal with politics it's true. The Assembly can enter anyone, but that's right, but in order to be a laborant you need to know how to look through a microscope, so... So I know how to look through the microscope, Mr. Bull. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now if you know all the honors, but it would be good too... [[Intruder: Don't get Miro.]] that you're politically thinking and thinking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your speech, you're also talking about Mr. Rasputic, who, as I recall in December 2020, spoke of blocking BiH's candidate status, blocking the Russian path if the election law is not resolved. And now he's standing here with Milanovic, give BiH candidate status. So why, well, no one is against BiH's candidate status, so that's the solution. Well, you do actually, a lot of controversy is actually, you know, not credible. What exactly do you want? Where's your consistent policy here? So who more than the Croatian government wants BiH's candidate status. But to achieve this, certain conditions need to be met, and this was done in a political agreement signed in Brussels on 12 June by Andrej Plenkovic. And what did Zoran Milanovic do? He was in Madrid. He didn't talk to anyone. He's visiting Malta now. Why hasn't your President, Zoran Milanovic, visited Paris? Why didn't your Zoran Milanovic visit Rome, Berlin, London, Washington? These are your friends you have to influence. That's your president. ... He named you. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, Mr. Bulj, as far as the position of the Croatian people and concerns are concerned, don't worry. We care enough, and your concern this you worry about your concerns because you have a lot of work to do in Sinj and there you must prove yourself to be one mayor who cares for the interests of the citizens. ... /Intruder Bull:... /... [[You don't understand.]] And don't be evetefendy, don't be. And I don't know what to say to Mr. Grumoja anymore. He always repeats the same words, repeats the same words, insults Croatian diplomacy. I wish for my colleagues and colleagues, for the sake of honorable men, I resent you for insulting such noble discipline and the people who are responsible. Croatian diplomacy is proud and honorable, and what you say I will not allow, of course. I mean, of course you can talk. I will not allow arguments, so I will tell you that Croatian diplomacy is a prominent Croatian diplomacy whatever you think of it. You'd be a colleague of the bush you're a young man, it's in front of you however every man has a perspective and... According to the harmony of life, but you have somehow a nomenest omen. [[You don't understand.]] I would recommend the popular one, who says: “Speak wiser, not louder. The flower grows in the rain, not in the thunder." And so it is in your business, so it is in your politics. And I want to tell you there's no corruption at the Foreign Ministry. You've instrumented a colleague of Sabelak's. Yes Damir Christmas and Petra Juras are responsible and quality professionals, so everything is and everything you do, do and wait in judicial proceedings, and don't influence the work of the court with this policy from the pay phone. Mr. Sabelak means no corruption. It's been resolved long ago, but Mr. Sabelak has sinned against the Foreign Ministry code because he has committed a serious violation of his official duty. But here we go back to what the topic is today. With all these discussions that we have had since 9:00 p.m. and beyond, I would still say suma sumarum that they were good debates, that representatives who understand, of course they understand, who will never understand that from the point of view of Croatia, which is a responsible member of the European Union above all, where these two countries are and, of course, as a responsible NATO member representing an open-door policy which is the same NATO policy, so we consistently advocate open-door policies for all those countries of European countries that want to join and which meet these membership criteria. So that the accession of Finland and the Swedish Union can only be supported by both handles and thus strengthen the security not only of NATO, but also of Croatian security. These countries have also helped Croatia. It should have these indicators that are measurable. You know, you can't politicize it, and I'm so sure that Croatia, as well as other members of the alliance, sees its membership in NATO as a permanent guarantee of its own security. And of course, this continuation of NATO enlargement certainly strengthens and fully secure the Trans-Atlantic space of Europe. NATO has always been the Western security post of Western society. It will remain that way, and the safety of citizens will certainly be further strengthened. Especially by entering the Schengen area. What's important is to speak, to work in the interests of citizens not floscule, not confusion, not so generalization, but actually what this government does to make it feel like an ordinary citizen sees it. It is in the interest of a Croatian citizen, in the interest of social stability, economic growth, recovery in the interest of the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, by expanding the Allied area of common values, we are also directly strengthening our own security, and we can always stress that component of our own security strengthening. I am sure and I am convinced that tomorrow you parliamentary representatives will recognise the importance of the membership of Finland and Sweden and that you will provide support, that you will raise your hand to this historic strengthening and expansion of NATO and that we will show Europe and the world that Croatia understands, that the Croatian Parliament understands this moment that we are mature as a society as we asked in 2009 when we became previously of course. When we were looking for partners then it was very important to have partners with those countries that would support us in our achievement of the foreign policy goal that is NATO membership. And when someone spoke about Montenegro, Mrs Zdravka Busic just fantastically explained that Croatia means it for its own sake, its own security was important to strongly support Montenegro towards NATO precisely given the fact that the south side is being closed safely. And that Dubrovnik would never repeat itself in '91. We have also created a security space for NATO by entering the Adriatic, of course. So it is the Adriatic Sea, both Croatian and Italian and Slovenian, which means it has become NATO's sea and, of course, to separate Montenegro first from the influence of third countries, and you know which countries I mean. We now have with Montenegro, although the government is unstable and we have extremely good relations, I am sorry that we are only exhausted here on the issue of course of BiH which remains of foreign policy interest, the fundamental foreign interest of the Republic of Croatia and of this government, that we also talked about Serbia which, of course, and the position of Croats in Vojvodina, remains in the focus of our interest, and that no one looked back on Montenegro, Boka Kotorska, the cultural Croatian heritage of Boka and Kotorska, Montenegro, that no one was talking about the return of the school ship Jadran, that no one was talking about the marking of the Morin camp. Our generations don't know what happened in Maureen. I don't know if you know her, but last October 3rd, I joined a Montenegrin minister who was brave enough to mark the 30th anniversary of the camper's death. There were 364 campers, four were killed, 152 were defenders, the rest were civilians. Later, the abuse and torture caused many to die. And it's important to cherish the memory and for Montenegrin society it's important as a reminder so it doesn't happen again. We will be here in Montenegro, Montenegro, Montenegro will set up a memorial panel in Morinj, and probably in Kotor, and on the other hand we will place on Vis a memorial plate for their Montenegrin admiral, who in 1991 killed himself in September because he did not want to fight, target the goals in Dubrovnik, he did not want to destroy the Croatian people, and he said in his farewell letter that the Montenegrin people would not destroy a people who did nothing wrong to him, approximately like that. So there's Mr. Bull, you know, you have to work there permanently, it's a tiny embroidery, it's not passwords. Marking such events. Mr Adrian Vuksanovic, if he is not a member of the National Assembly, is a minister, he entered as Minister Adrian Vukasnović [[I'm here for the wars where you speak.]] is Croatian Minister in their [[Intruder: Dubrovnik.]] While I was in diplomacy, Mr. Bull, I came back in '91. years,... [[Intruder: While you were in diplomacy.]] a I've got a minute. [[Intruder: He will talk to me about Dubrovnik.]] I've got me back. [[Intruder: The day was not a war.]] I'm out, I'm out, you're rude and you're rude. [[Intruder: Agroprotein, agroprotein will speak to me.]] I'm up in '91. years back from Switzerland, and I could live there... And I do, I do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The status of the Croatian defender. ... [[I'm resigning to tell you where you've been in which trench.]] Are these the Croatian MPs? [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] Is this the Croatian Parliament? Is this the cheek and honor and dignity of Croatian parliamentarians? So you're acting [[You've directed the whole speech towards me here. What's, what's, let's talk, face it.]] You act like you're in some sort of pub, so you're here... [[We're going to face you and me somewhere?]] in the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what do you know about it? And what do you know what it was? [[Intruder: That it was folk, and now it's yours.]] You don't know anything, you say it by heart, and I don't go into yours, your grandfather and your father and aunt, I don't care, but it's very pathetic, beneath every level of culture. [[I know that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122171	Miro Bulj you get a third warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122172	So, Mr. Bull, you can be ashamed if you have cheeks. Thank you very much. ... I told you at the end what I thought of you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122173	The replica of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122174	I wanted to finish this and thank you for chairing in one tone, but Minister I don't know at all, I'm surprised to you. If you were so old, with so much experience, you'd have taken yourself as a right, maybe you could give me a lecture. Maybe I could learn something from you. Perhaps I could believe every story of yours, but one level with which you're going to give a hand to someone who or who is often called from the ruling majority is a hive, probably alluding to the fact that there is no school, and we all know why there is no school, he and a whole series of people like this. And I end up in a decent tone. Thank you for being here all day. The time you were away was probably one lack of arguments about Sabelak. And finally, I would ask you to comment on how a NATO member of the United States can cooperate. With something Turkey called a terrorist organization? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122175	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122176	Thank you very much, you resented me for being away, so I guess I was right, I only ate three sandwiches today, so I guess you don't mind me going out and eating a sandwich at some point. But I was watching you. So, while I was eating a sandwich, I didn't leave it. I came here to show you respect and listen to the debate, I stayed all day because it really matters to me to hear absolutely every speech so that I respect you. I didn't insult anyone here today at home, and I got very ugly words and still where and where, therefore, a certain level of controversy that was still going is mentioning and family etc. from your colleagues here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122177	Injury of Rules of Procedure Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122178	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been injured. I don't have anyone else to call. I was here all day yesterday. Today all day, I've eaten one meal and it's the least important. This gentleman next to me yesterday was in the Parliament of Mario Capula all day. So last night he went down to the fire field. At 5:00 a.m., he sat in his car, came back here, and I'm a witness for eating all day. One of the only cakes. So we can't have this particular man at your age of experience in the service you're acting on. Thank you. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122179	And you get a warning because this was your replica. The next replica of Nicola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122180	So I... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122181	Please allow the representative to...... Mr Kujundzic, Mr Kujundzic...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Kujundzic, let Grumo take the line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... Here you go, Thunderbolt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122182	So Mr. Grlic Radman had his exposure before anyone had given him any replica to begin with so that I would be better off lost twice than once found so the debate began. Right? And then you claim that we're the ones who don't know rude, rude or whatever. Then you came here at the end of 10 minutes to the Croatian defender who at 18 years of age went to war, was on all battlefields to give a lecture on the Morin camp. You've done well. If I were Miro Bulj, I don't know how you'd get out of this assembly if you were holding those who didn't see the war that you gave me a lecture on the Morin camp. Just so much, don't tell stories about unculture. You are the most uncultural man who sat and spoke here in the Croatian Parliament because you started your presentation with personal insults because you have no arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122183	And as for the arguments, you don't actually have the ears for arguments. You only listen to yourself, and you don't actually hear yourself. You are surprised when you insult many, when you use a word I never really use in my life and suddenly turn around, you come here to see President Jandrokovic and ask what you said. So you're actually not aware of what you're saying. To me, it's... Well, I do. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means you call me a liar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122184	Please don't kumunicate from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122185	So how are you not ashamed, Mr. Grmoya? You're not ashamed. I'm asking you. Well, you're a young man, you're an educated man, and I hope you act like one. You're really below every level. And Mr. Christmas, his daughter asks when she heard your debate here, saying, "Are you going to Zagreb? In prison." So as you are now on the line with Mr. Sabelak and I don't know who more, it's probably whether but you're watching this transmission watch. This is not good the way you discuss it and how you answer it, it's not good I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122186	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122187	Dear Vice President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not warned your colleague Grumo. He threatened the minister directly so that he could pass if he had said something to him. Well, we're here in the Parliament to talk, and we're not doing physical accounting, and it's really below all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122188	Nikola Grmoy's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122189	Article 238 has been injured. I didn't threaten anyone. I said I was a Croatian defender who'd been through the whole war and that someone was telling me so that I could go through with it. I'm not a Croatian defender, I haven't been through this whole war, I haven't seen the war. During the war, I was 10, 11 years old, so that option is out of the question and cannot be considered a threat. And secondly, telling someone that they're lying isn't below the level if someone's lying if you're saying that the verdict on Damir Sabelak isn't right. She's a powerful woman, and you're lying to the ministers, and that's what you should be told.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122190	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122191	I'm telling you, she's not a powerful woman. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122192	Minister, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122193	You said that today. ... But this is Mr. Grumpy's slander. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is slander.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122194	You've been warned. Mr. Minister. Mr. Grmoya, you received a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... You'll sue him for slander. [[Radman:... does not understand.]] Miro The Hood of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122195	Thank you very much. Look, I can't believe when I listen here that the Croatian Democratic Community has done nothing for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nothing. I don't know, I guess it's just that Franjo Tudjman and Gojko Shuska were doing well at the time, I guess. Okay. I remember the badgers at Herzegovina Bank, I remember trying to introduce self-government and the fateful Ante Jelavic and his campaign because I participated and there I got sugar and... I'm on insulin. [[You don't understand.]] I remember the message that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the problem of Sarajevo. Well, after 2000, SDPs were persecuted in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They didn't press against the members of the Workers' Front to file factory charges. No political action was prohibited by various provisions to the entire Croatian people's elite in Bosnia and Herzegovina. HDZ did that. Okay. And it's hard for me to hear here claims that HDZ didn't do anything and when we hear those claims from a paroled traitor and a high treason because tomorrow you will You probably won't be against this ratification. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]] But Zoran Milanovic actually said that traitors and high-level traitors only came from the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122196	Next line of Miro Totgergeli. And I'm sorry, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122197	Thank you very much. What Mr. Hood said, but beware on one side is so the two levels of help. It means political and legal for their position, which has been marred by the change of the Election Law, and on the other hand by strengthening financial assistance and various infrastructure projects. Croatia's government increased 100% this year through the Central State Office for all projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina can survive, live and work. So we helped the University Hospital in Mostar, the Croatian Theatre in Mostar, various other institutions from Herzegovina to Posavina, to Central Bosnia. Therefore, wherever the Croats live, they compete, send projects and they are satisfied with the help that comes from the Croatian government. So you should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122198	Time. Replica Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122199	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, in detail in your closing statement, you tried to explain to all MPs how important it is to keep Finland and Sweden in NATO and that this is also important for the Croats in BiH, because even in their individual debate, Grmoja said that it is important to convince our friends in Europe how serious the problem of Croats in BiH is and that only if we convince them that they will help us to actually solve this problem. And now how harmful it is when one day we tell all these friends in Europe we condition the entry of Finland and Sweden into NATO in this situation when Russia has an aggression on Ukraine, when it threatens aggression and Finland how complicated it is and then convince them afterwards but we Croats have a problem in BiH, help us explain it in detail but obviously it is not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122200	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122201	Of course, of course. I agree, but you see the position of the Croatian people is not only a component and task, but you should see Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Its territorial integrity should be respected. It's a matter of national security here and security. If you have an orderly Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you have satisfied peoples and other citizens, then you actually have Bosnia and Herzegovina on your way to the European Union. Then who more than Croatia will support Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in both the European Union and NATO. We are now entering the Schengen and sharing the longest border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what you're asking, you know, you're asking a serious question. Here you have a lot of aspects and the issue of migration, etc. We therefore put forth this very great effort not only of equality, constitutionality, but of clearly complete security, in fact, of the institutional functionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122202	Time. I thank the ministers. We've exhausted the replicas with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote the cashier's terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122204	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.36 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 125 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government delivered the reading and now I'm going to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, but before that, I see a request for a break. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122205	I am looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the MOST Club to discuss this unusual and humiliating situation for the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I believe that the agenda should be respected and that the first item of which may have been about 40, 45 minutes should have ended, not that the pace of work of all of us adapts to the schedule of Prime Minister Plenkovic as much as we appreciate all his efforts and great obligations. So I don't know what was so important that we couldn't finish the first point but to put another one in this way. I would like you to have a meeting in 5 with the German ambassador whom you have called to protest sharply for the Resolution of the Bundestag in which the defamation of the Croatian state and the Croatian people in BiH is difficult, but that is unlikely. It's much more likely that you have a haircut arranged at 1700 and that's why we need to hurry up with this point. I don't happen to mention it, it's funny to you, you'll laugh in the fall and in the winter when the Croats from BiH start asking questions. Our hand will catch up to you in Brussels, too. And maybe even from that zero dies son of a line, we see that today a prominent HDZ and Varazdin were arrested and today the European public prosecutor is digging through the institutions, so maybe he needs to see what's going on with who's coming, who's not coming. I'm mainly looking for a break because we need to consider this situation, this is a completely inappropriate relationship and humiliation of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122206	My colleague Rasdic, therefore these situations are common and they have already happened and I have been able to announce in several situations in agreement with the Prime Minister that a certain point will be at a certain time. So it's not about anything new, it's not about any humiliation, and the words you've spoken may be the best talk about yourself. So I'd like to give you a break. As far as the second break is concerned, it's a colleague of Mlinarić's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122207	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you're here and Mr. Plenkovic's here and that there's Minister Grlic Radman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of 10, 10 minutes in the name of the Homeland Movement to give Mr Plenkovic time to answer the open letter I gave him on the current watch. Neither did he listen to you who sent him a rush a month ago, nor did he answer for compensation to Croatian campers for the lawsuit against Serbia, and that Minister Radman could prepare himself and give me a quality response when I now ask him what about Chapter 23, what your ambassador in Belgrade did to you, which he did because in Chapter 23, it was set out that Serbia could not close this chapter until war compensation was paid to the campers who were in Serbian concentration camps. How many meetings did you make, how many of your ambassadors did this, have times met with Vukic or some of them who were responsible for so that you knew that they were given information that was eager to wait 30 years for justice for their situation in which they were found and who were prisoners of Serbian camps, and the Croatian state did absolutely nothing. Here, thank you very much for giving Plenkovic an answer for the current clock below 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122208	All right, break's approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? In accordance with the article, no, no, in accordance with Article 293b. We will continue to work, so I would like to invite a respected colleague, Pavliček, to explain the request, or a proposal to launch a trust issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122209	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister, esteemed fellow Members and colleagues, I am pleased to see a well-filled assembly without voting, which means that this topic is extremely important to all. In this way, I would like to thank all parliamentary representatives and MPs who supported the initiative of Croatian sovereigns to raise the issue of trust to Minister Grlic Radman Minister of European and Foreign Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we believe that the minister in question is simply not up to the task. In fact, Croatia literally has no diplomacy, Croatia literally has no foreign policy. At the time of the term of office, Minister Grlic Radman has not met any strategic goals. No one will argue that the minister may have tried but ultimately the result is only measured. So in sports, so in business, so in politics. And here the results simply don't exist. He's just gone. And he has made an appointment here in every respect, and that is why I am pleased that this motion for impeachment has been signed almost from all clubs of opposition to the right to the left because obviously we all share the same opinion as regards the results of the work of Minister Grlic Radman. We listed here specifically in our proposal what let's tell him the most we resent. BiH's electoral law, in line with the Constitutional Court's ruling in the case of Ljubic, the current election law in this country has been assessed as discriminatory against Croats in the provisions concerning the election of Croatian representatives in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH. All attempts to change the election law in line with the BiH Constitutional Court's rulings, and the European Court of Human Rights have been rejected by Bosniak political representatives. We believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministry have not so far used all the necessary mechanisms to ensure that the upcoming elections in BiH are finally held more favourable for Croatia. On October 2nd, elections will take place and this time another, in this case, Bosniaks, will elect a Croatian member of the presidency by all accounts, as well as representatives of the Federation of BiH's House of Peoples. I must point out this way that the number of Croats currently in BiH is only 320 to 340 thousand, before the war itself there were about 750 thousand down in BiH. This is the result of the disastrous situation of Croats in BiH who, despite their consistency, have been thrown on the sidelines of society. In the past few months, the flags of the Croatian people of BiH have also been defiled, especially in the BiH Federation of Central Bosnia, in the Zenica-Doboj canton. The resolution ministry has not responded to this, and the Croats of central Bosnia are already slowly feeling physically threatened in this so-called so-called. The Federation of BiH. On these days, more precisely on July 8th, the German Bundestag adopted a resolution on BiH called "BiH Support for a Better Future". In the resolution, he directly accused BiH's top man Dragan Covic of blocking BiH's reforms towards a European path. In addition, the resolution also states that the top people of Croatia and Serbia are asked to distance themselves from the ethnic and separatist forces within BiH, and this same Republic is a co-signator of the Dayton Agreement and accordingly has the right to interfere under allegations in BiH's internal affairs and has an obligation to protect the interests of the Croatian people in BiH. A month earlier, Minister Grlic Radman said on a matter related to this resolution, a proposal for a BiH resolution does not send good messages to Bundestag, a strong influence of the Bosniak lobby is visible. Right, but Minister Grlic Radman was 3. The Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia is no less than in Berlin, so we wonder what he did in those 3rd years. to make the Croatian lobby stronger than Bosniaks. After Grlic Radman's resolution was passed a few days ago, the Bundestag resolution does not maintain Germany's official position, it is a non-binding political statement. It is certainly the official position of Germany, it may not be binding on the German government, but the German government will certainly act according to the decision of the German Bundestag, or the German parliament, as in most cases when HS adopts numerous declarations and resolutions, the Croatian government does, and this is an external political fiasco. As a second point, we cited a failure to comply with the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro minority in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, at the end of 2004 Croatia has concluded a bilateral minority protection agreement with then state-owned Serbia-Montenegro. In particular, I would like to highlight the article here. 9. which says national minorities need to be guaranteed mandates politically at local, regional and state levels of government, primarily legislative authorities. Croatia has fulfilled its share in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, so today we have three representatives of the Serb national minority, we have representatives of the Serb national minority in the Croatian government, we have several state secretaries from the Serb national minority, and the Serb national minority has 10 mayors from its ranks, the Serb national minority has 40 deputy chiefs and mayors from its ranks, the Serb national minority has several hundred local councillors, municipal, urban and countyal from its ranks guaranteed. The Croatian national minority, and there are about 60 thousand in Vojvodina, has one big nothing, one big nothing, is not represented at any level of government. Since 2004 3.g. We have Minister Grlic Radman, Serbia is on its way to the EU, we have failed to force the Republic of Serbia to honour this agreement before these last elections, and that the Croats do not feel like the last hole on playing in Vojvodina without any political rights, and indeed as perhaps the poorest national minority or members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia with a further tendency to fall. As the third point, we listed unresolved border disputes. The creation of an independent Croatian state, of course, left numerous unresolved border disputes, primarily with the former Yugoslav republics, with Montenegro, with BiH, Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia. Much of these border disputes have not been resolved today, and we have literally not been removed from the dead spot, especially in the last few years. As for, say, border disputes with the Republic of Serbia, which may be the most serious. We have an unresolved issue of Vukovar Ade's favorite Vukovar resort. We have an unresolved issue of the Charengrad Ade of a vast agricultural area where many fishermen from Croatia lived before the war. We have 11.5 thousand catastrian Croatian countries on the left coast of the Danube, of which nothing has been solved today. What is particularly worrying is that at the time of the term of office of Minister Grlic Radman, the Interstate Commission for the Borders of Croatia and Serbia has never met, it has never met, for the last time in 2018. It just shows how much the minister cares about solving this problem, and you need to know it's going to be the Schengen border tomorrow, and it won't be solved. The next item is the ambassador's statements in Belgrade. Disgraceful statements by Hidajet Bištevic, the ambassador of the Republic of Belgrade, ahead of the elections for the National Assembly. Namely, Ambassador Biščević, on several occasions both in Croatian and Serbian media, directly accuses the name and last name of the political champion of Croats in Vojvodina Tomislav Žigmanov for ethnobusiness. What is worse, he accuses that he is a co-founder and the main culprit that the Croats are on the sidelines of society in Vojvodina, so if someone is to blame that the Croats have no political rights, then it is Croatian diplomacy including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ambassador Hidajet Bištevic himself. We haven't heard any reaction from Minister Grlic Radman to his shameful statements. As next point, we cited the tolerance of corrupt activities in the Croatian diplomatic network. Namely, all known cases of Damir Sablak, a foreign ministry employee who returned to work a few days ago, who discovered certain corrupt activities in the Croatian diplomatic network between ambassadors and their wives. However, due to his official injury to official duty, he is two times away from work by Minister Pejcinovic Buric's decision and after that by Minister Grlic Radman's decision. This solution was rejected by the Administrative Court and today Damir Sablak is working in the ministry in question, but the issue of corruption remains unresolved and it seeks to cover up such moves by the current minister apparently. There's a few other things I didn't bring here. This is the fact that Croatia lost its memorial in Bleiburg, that Croatian diplomacy has failed to fight and prove to Austria as allies that the Croatian people have suffered there, the greatest loss of Croatian people in Croatian history, and that there is no defeated army there, as well as the fact that two months ago a historical Croatian coat of arms was removed from the monument in Bleiburg where the ministry only later reacted, but here I hope that we will hear from the minister today whether we have any movements. As you have heard, these are our arguments for the impeachment of Minister Grlic Radman, who are quite clear and firm unlike those offered by the government in their obviousness that contain a dozen pages, I would say diplomaticly a lot of things written, nothing has been said. A series of unfortunately flossulas. This indication already in the opening words brings the government's definition of so-called. Modern sovereignty. Here I am pleased to re-use this word of sovereignty, and this modern sovereignty, in the opinion of our government, means quoting, strengthening the country's international position to the well-being of citizens and the economy, and pushing for Croats outside of Croatia and protecting their rights. What you've just heard is no modern sovereignty but literally is the fundamental role of every diplomacy. That is why we have the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs and the diplomatic network, which is why they are paid from the Croatian budget. It's their basic job. It's like saying that modern sovereignty is that the police keep the law and order or that the armed forces safeguard the territorial integrity of the state, so it's their primary function, which is why we have them. And then the government looks back at each of our points, and it makes its arguments. The election law in BiH is said to have worked hard and devoted a lot of time to it. And I'm going to say again, no one argues that you didn't try, that you didn't try to raise that question to a higher level, but as I said in the opening part, everything is measured by the results. There are no results for Croats in BiH. The electoral law is not in spite of all efforts, all so-called. EU allies, etc., election law remains disastrous for Croats. Not to mention the damage caused by the German Bundestag Resolution, which, although proposed by the SPD representative, was also supported by representatives of the HDZ sister party CDU and CSU. And it's purely international in diplomatic terms, fiasco. And of course that's the position of the German state. Under point 3, the government has made a real effort to explain how hard it has worked, but it does not produce any results regarding the protection of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. Is there reciprocity in the political rights of the Serb national minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia in line with the 2004 agreement? It doesn't exist. When will it be introduced? You don't know. Will he ever be introduced? You don't know. And this is the fact that the government wants to cloud the stories of laying the cornerstone for building a Croatian house in Subotica and handing over the memorial of Ban Josip Jelačić's house. Gentlemen, political rights are one thing, and property is something else. And there he would immediately refer to these shameful statements by Croatian Ambassador Hidajet Biscevic. In the government's response to one more than half of the pages on this point, there is no mention of Hidajet Biscevic, and he is the subject of that point, but he is not mentioned anywhere, nor his statements, but is mentioned as being correct in a good relationship with Foreign Minister Tomislav Zigmanov. And now I'm interested in what is the official policy of Zagreb towards the Croats and the DSHV in Serbia. Is this the statement by Ambassador Bištevic, who accused Tomislav Žigmanov on the eve of the election that the Croats are on the sidelines of the Ethnobusiness Society, or is it a statement by Minister Grlic Radman urging Croats in Vojvodina to vote for Tomislav Žigmanov a few days before the election. This Hidajet Bištević makes the bills of the Minister to you. Once a year, as far as I know, the report gives the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs a report on his work. Why didn't you publicly fence from his statements? Why did you invite him to talk, condemn those statements? What kind of message do we send if we have this uncoordinated diplomacy? You have numerous events of the Croatian community in Vojvodina, none of them appear Ambassador Hidajet Biščević. It is a disgrace to Croatian diplomacy. He's responsible for you. Both on, and finally we have this Damir Sabelak case, which was eventually annulled by the decision of the Administrative Court, which proved that the minister did not make a valid solution or that all the legal procedures resulting from this solution were annulled. Here, I thank you all, and I hope we have one quality debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122210	We've got replicas. First up, my colleague Barbaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122211	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, a respected colleague in this appeal mentions BiH, I am interested in whether it is in the role of improving the Croatian people in BiH and what you co-signors are still doing or don't let God know that we have become part or subject within political disputes. I would also like to know if you have discussed with this initiative any of the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people in BiH or the Croatian National Assembly. If you're not underestimating us, speak for us, we're right-handed, but we're not exactly backward. There are lefties, but we just don't like missing them. Do you consider this initiative less than 3 months before the general elections useful for the Croatian people in BiH? And last question, I know it isn't, but God forbid this debate and this is all part of a particular political option? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122212	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122213	As far as foreign policy is concerned, I think we should all blow in the same direction, whether left or right. And I hope we all smoke in the same direction. And this initiative is precisely because our external diplomacy is being further traded and trying to amend this electoral law in any way if it still has time to do so. As far as the talks are concerned, well, firstly for the conduct of foreign policy, the official authority is not an opposition, and certainly that we have had talks with certain political parties such as the Croatian Republican Party in BiH only because you obviously do not think that it is a legitimate representative of the Croatian people, although it is part of the Croatian people, but is not a member of the Croatian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122214	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Barbaric please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122215	Thank you. In 238, a respected colleague in the text writes the removed Minister Radman, and everything will be fine, and I thank you for showing up when it comes to the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122216	My colleague Barbaric, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Now it's my fellow Sacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122217	A well-respected colleague and the Croatian people in particular, especially the Croatian defenders and victims of the great Serbian aggression, are extremely sensitive to each, every political statement that comes from Belgrade, the current leadership here and unfortunately we have witnessed is not worthy of mentioning his name, but he said in the government of the Republic of Serbia the other day that there will be peace in the Balkans only when all Serbs live in the same country as the embassy, the US Embassy in Belgrade, Sarajevo, and I, as far as I listened, followed no reaction. I mean, it's incomprehensible to me that we're giving so much volunteering, why did the silence of Croatia come back again? How do you interpret that? Is that the responsibility of our ministry, of our government, of our prime minister, of ours? - Leadership? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122218	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122219	No, I didn't hear any reaction either. I believe that, in large part of our ministry, we run a Brussels policy, often a policy of bowing down to Brussels interests, not a policy of fighting for national Croatian interests. Today, Tomislav Zigmanov was on a meeting with Alexander Vukic about perhaps possible co-operation in the future Serbian government. Well, this Tomislav Zigmanov would never have seen the National Assembly if our diplomacy had been, but thanks to his coalition talks with parties such as the Vojvodina League has similarly succeeded in entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and thanks to its parliamentary negotiations today on the future government. So the Croatian state and Croatian diplomacy in this respect did absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122220	Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122221	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, I read your proposal to impeach the foreign minister, point by point, state the reasons, the relationship with Serbia, with BiH, border disputes, protection of minorities, and say there are no results in foreign policy. Today in 2022, I am surprised that you are sending such a recall because today we have a Croatian candidate from Vojvodina Tomislav Žigmanov in the Serbian Parliament, we have a minister in the Montenegrin government from the ranks of Croatian Adrian Vuksanovic. As far as border disputes are concerned, we are talking today in the year when we finally joined Croatia's territory on the Pelješki Bridge. As far as BiH is concerned, this is the only government and minister who, both during the EU presidency and on the European Council itself, talks about BiH at all. Today in the year when we enter the euro zone, Schengen, OECD is the only organization in which we are not looking for the recall of the foreign minister. And what do you think fell from the sky? What? It's no one's radio on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122222	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122223	My dear colleague, I think we live in two different worlds. 100%. I said two minutes ago, so what do you really think Tomislav Zigmanov is in the National Assembly thanks to you and your foreign policy? Well, it's left to say I don't use any harsh words like the last one on the street to fight and make it into the National Assembly thanks to the combinations. So when was the last time you were in R. Serbia and talked to him? Be correct, don't talk about some accomplishments you don't know anything about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122224	Now it's time for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122225	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, you insulted your colleague Bačić. You, a colleague of Pavliček, has been tortured by my colleague Zigmanov at the HDZ meeting, so I see that this is a problem, and when I spoke to him, he greatly appreciated all the help he has from the government, the foreign minister and all those who are in diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122226	Comrade Pavić, you've been replicated to receive a warning. And now she's going to be replicated by her colleague, Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122227	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Pavliček, I somehow expected that you would condemn the behaviour of SPD representative Adis Ahmetovic for his denial of the constituent peoples, because of his incurring to BiH's internal affairs and the sovereignty of the state. You are somehow bowing to what you have today, to this policy because Addis Ahmetovic and his suite are attacking this government and this minister because they advocate the rights of Croats as a constituent people. If anyone can be acknowledged that he has worked politically to improve the position of Croats, then it is certainly this government addressing these issues at all important meetings and helping through various forms of assistance. So I would like to put this political overplay on the skin of the Croats in BiH aside, if you really care about their improvement, let's see together which we can do to improve their position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122228	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122229	I, in my presentation, condemned that resolution, but unfortunately I do not have the opportunity to seek the recall of counterpart Ahmetovic in Budestag, but I have the option and ask for the recall of our Minister Grlic Radman. So I believe that Minister Grlic Radman has long been familiar with Mr Ahmetovic's initiative, with the probative lobby within the SDP of Germany, and that he could have reacted better, if nothing else, at least to his colleagues from the sister party, the CDU and CSU, not to support this resolution, because unfortunately they also supported it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122230	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122231	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Pavliček, you have explained this very nicely and everything you have asked for Mr. Grlic Radman's recall. The only thing I resent is that you didn't put in that recall for missing campers and campers. I said in the first two minutes, there's Prime Minister Plenkovic, there's a minister. I will not from this pay phone, as I said the other day, use their graining culture, as we see the one from Pantovic who gives them names, but by insisting on campers, for the missing, for Croatian defenders, I will force Mr. Plenkovic, and also Minister Grlic Radman to put himself in that drawer which, which he lists from above from Pantovic, I say, that graining culture. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122233	I think the theme of the Serbian concentration camps is the topic primarily in the Croatian state that must be addressed by the prime minister of the Croatian government because it is the subject of all topics such as the topic of war damage. So that's the topic that's been going through, not since yesterday, but since we have an independent state, and that's the topic that's primarily the main and priority topic for the prime minister who's in charge and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122234	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122235	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, you say, does not settle border disputes, and the minister agreed in May to distinguish with Italy in the Adriatic. You say, and you problem Chapter 23 in negotiations with Serbia, and then during the Croatian EU Presidency, the whole system of negotiations is changed that it cannot, not only Chapter 23, but no chapter is closed until the requirements of Chapter 23 are met. Then you're talking about Zigmanov, Vuksanovic, and they've already denied you with their public statements and also their presence at the HDZ assembly. Then the government supports the equality of Croats in BiH, which is why it gets criticism from the Bundestag. That upsets you very much, but you are not criticising the Bundestag, but are asking for the shift of the Croatian minister. I guess that's Croatian sovereignty for you, and then at the end of the corrupt shop, but let's be precise here. It is not, the actions the courts will decide on, but it did not happen while the prime minister was Plenkovic and Minister Grlic Radman, but while she is the minister was Vesna Pusic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Say it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122236	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122237	Oh, you've said a lot, I have little time to answer, but let's try it in a row. The only thing you've done, it's the distinction with Italy with which we've been realistically looking at the border and within the former state, so that's the first thing. No other distinction has been resolved. You have been in diplomacy for a long time, so I know that this Tomislav Zigmanov, of course, will come to your assembly because you are the ruling party. So what do you think came over because you solved everything for him like you've done so far? Well, the sign of culture is that it will come to your assembly, especially if it calls the prime minister of the country of origin where it belongs. I think you know it very well and don't use it now, these are diplomatic stories and you know how it works. But unfortunately, you haven't met any foreign policy goals. You haven't fulfilled. This Tomislav Zigmanov is there thanks to his combinations, not thanks to you or me. So you didn't fill out the article. 9 of 2004. I'm hearing from him a little, a little, don't be afraid, but don't accuse him of co-operation. with Croatian sovereigns. [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122238	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122239	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavlichek. Yes, we hear quite a lot of fun thesis, to say that building the Peljega Bridge is the success of Croatian diplomacy is almost like saying that Christmas on December 25th is the success of the Ministry of Economy, let's say about that. But I won't do it. The fact is, about war damage, the return of the robbed cultural treasures of the Republic of Croatia and the rights of the camps of Serb concentration camps, the movement practically does not exist. But what's really worrying, so I'd like to ask you one of your evaluations. Why is reciprocity not sought in achieving the minority rights of Croats in R. Serbia? Why? What's to prevent people who lead us from doing that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122240	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122241	Well, that's the real question for an esteemed minister. Here I am really interested in when the last time he sat down with representatives of the Republic of Serbia and discussed the issue. The answer also states that as regards border disputes, etc. They're being pulled out on the crown, it wasn't the possibility of meetings, etc. I think we're all sitting here 10... each other, traveling freely. So there's a new Serbian government waiting. We know that Aleksandar Vukic has been the absolute ruler of Serbia for years and could have been negotiated with him before. So if you're looking for an excuse, he can always be found. So in this case, I think the minister will still give us some concrete answer during today's day why it has not been able to figure out that Croats have guaranteed rights at all levels of government, as do representatives of the Serb community in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122242	Here you go, Comrade Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122243	Thank you very much, President. Here is my colleague, Pavliček, first of all, I am sorry that you have in some way offended both the dignity and dignity and the intelligence of Tomislav Žigmanov where you said he had come to the Parliament of the Croatian Democratic Union because it is a party in power. But okay, he'll have a chance to tell you why he was, and then we'll talk about it. On the other hand, I am saddened by the fact that together you and I, as a parliamentary representative, were both in Subotica and the Croatian National Council and with the Croats in Vojvodina, where it is pointed out that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is the first prime minister to speak to representatives of the Croats in Serbia at all. Not to mention, it is ungrateful that the amount of the Central Office that amounted to 300,000 kunas when this term of government began, and this year more than 9 million kuna was invested for Croats only in the Republic of Serbia is an increase of more than 20%. I'm sorry you're not telling the truth, and the truth is we're letting the representatives of the Croats go to Vojvodina and clearly... and let them say what they think, not that you say it. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122244	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122245	Well, I'm sorry that you call on them like you're best friends with them. And you were the first to say that they were on your Parliament, and you were the first to say that you were in good relations with them, so I returned there. I'm just afraid you won't invite Mr. Zigmanov to the Presidious Court and the report here in Zagreb why in contact with me or something like that you don't give God a man must avoid me as it was the other day in the organization of Secretary of State Milas where he was literally afraid to say hello to me and later said, "I hope I won't have any problems." That's how it is for you. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, but that's the way it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You were a colleague there, I know a little more than you think. ... That's what happened. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it doesn't matter. I don't blame it. Neither do you. But don't call on him, don't call on him and catch cheap political points because he was at your Parliament. Don't do that. That's the first one you started with that story, the first one you started.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122246	I really can't believe that someone with you wouldn't want to say goodbye out of fear. Well, that would really be a disaster. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122247	Article 238 of the demeanor has been injured. So you know as well as I do, and the position of representatives of Croats in both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, therefore, which say that thanks to the very mandate of this government and this government, everything has been done. And you also made a lie about Tomislav Zigmanov and his mandate in the Assembly, because it was with the foreign minister in March that we were to fight and get a member of the National Assembly. Look in the media, you'll get it all figured out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122248	Thank you, Comrade Mazhar. You're getting a warning. This was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but this was a replica. Now they're going to be replicating a colleague of the Chapel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122249	Thank you very much, President. Well, you mentioned there was no reaction to Bundestang. Well, it is not quite true that it is, so I will remind you that I, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, am the basis of an agreement with all the parties that were on that committee at the time, and were also the means of opposition and position, to address precisely the letter which has just been clearly drawn up what Croatia thinks about what will be discussed 7 days before the debate in Bundestag. Secondly, it was not a resolution, but a motion for one document by one of the parliamentarians. So it is very clear from us at the time that we are also the basis of the German rapporteur Doris Pack 2014 made up by Prime Minister Plenkovic and Picula and some others of all provinces of the document that was accepted at the time in the Euro Parliament, so we mentioned the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament in 2018 and everything that was necessary to understand finally what the matter was.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122250	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122251	My esteemed colleague, I didn't mention that there was no reaction. I'm glad that you reacted as president of the Committee, but I said that unfortunately the resolution is not good and that as far as foreign policy is concerned, we did it well. I have to look back here at my colleague, Mazhar, because I didn't have the opportunity before, and that means once again I don't want any of us here on behalf of Tomislav Zigman to get political points, not you, not me, and that's why a man has a problem. So that's a first. Don't get used to someone's friendship...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122252	Comrade Pavlovichk, you know you can't replicate the one that hasn't replicated to you. So please find a form of how you'll do it. That's what I warned the minister, so you've got to stick to all the lines. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122253	In your debate, you mentioned former Minister Pejcinović Buric, of course not to suit you, and in reply to the replica of your colleague Stier, you said, quote: "You have not achieved any foreign policy goal." You also pointed out that the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not working. It's legitimate and you're entitled to it. The question is, does it bear part of the guilt for you in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and adviser to one of the former ministers you have criticised here, a violinist, then violinist, today the euro representative Ladislav Ilcic, who has long been the chief adviser to Mr Stier for a fee of 10 thousand kuna by your representative of Croatian sovereigns?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122255	You're too strong, Zekanovic. First of all, we didn't discuss a colleague, Stier, but the current minister, Grlic Radman, and his possible recall. So you're as confused as in most cases in your pear and apple speeches.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122256	That's it? A colleague Milanović litre please. [[Intruder Pavliček: This is it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122257	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here is the interesting thing to see these HDZs trying to document or justify their minister in any way possible and creativity is not lacking. But the argument is certainly missing. I'm interested in the situation of the largest Croatian Bleiburg site. During the coronary crisis there was a limited presence at the Commemoration. Shortly after that, the ceremony was lifted to ensure that two months ago, a national symbol of Croats was removed with the mention of a mark in the Bleibur field where innocent people were killed. Croatia, or the Croatian government headed by Radman as foreign minister, had absolutely nothing to do with the matter, as well as his full Ambassador Gluncic. Only after Croatian sovereigns were the principles of this topic at the Press Conference was then followed by a reaction. Is this how the identity of Croats and victims of all who are... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122258	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122259	I think the Ministry was too late to react. The fact is that the ceremony in Bleiburg is no more and it is very likely and in the future it will not be... again our diplomacy failed to let colleagues in Austria know that it really meant the memorialisation of victims, that it was the greatest loss of Croatian people in Croatian history that was not to be talked about for 45 years. Unfortunately, it didn't work out either. That coat of arms, as far as I know, is the historical Croatian coat of arms here at the Church of St. Mark's standing, he's been removed, and I don't think he's been returned today. And here I believe the minister may later say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122260	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122261	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Government, colleague Pavlichek. So all of what you're accusing the HDZ here is what you see in your proposal signature, left, colleague Bauk, colleague Beljak. Here I can imagine the three of you in Bleiburg, especially a colleague of the Belgians who today refused to support the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO. And when we talk about modern sovereignty, let's explain what that means. In a globalized world as strong as you are in this globalized world, you can protect national interests. How strong you are to secure 25 billion euros, how strong you are to put the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Council, how strong you are that you can put all this into a strategic compass. The Croatian government with this prime minister and minister is strong. And you are not Croatian sovereigns, you are Croatian isolationists. Your policy would lead Croatia to complete isolation and all... that we have, and today a two-level credit rating would be raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122262	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122263	Dear colleague Pavic, I've been on several occasions to Bleigurb. I don't know how many times you were after you were Minister. I hope you were. I really hope you've bowed to the victims. I believe it is, here's what I really believe it is. As for the matter, you said well: “How strong we are. ” The problem of Croats in BiH remains. The demarcation with neighbouring countries still stands. The problem of the Croats in Vojvodina still stands. The statements by the ambassadors which are not mentioned in the government's reply and the directly responsible minister remain. You can see how strong we are, how successful we are in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122264	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122265	Dear colleague, how strong we are, and here is the fact that the dowry is a representative of the SPD Addis Atmetović giant for Andrej Plenkovic, a giant by influence in Germany. So much for our partners, and Grlic Radman was also an ambassador to Germany, and today we hear or it doesn't matter, and voted all ruling parties plus CDU so almost complete except Linkedal and AFD's German political scene and it's irrelevant. What's their motive? Why don't they want to move their fingers across that border where someone from Berlin and Brussels would say no, no? And careers. The example of Marija Pejcinovic Buric best says that when one of her employees made statements on a visit to BiH that constitutional peoples should be abolished. From the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, we sent her an inquiry as to whether it was the official position of the Council of Europe and its position. You know what we got? A letter in English that speaks only of the judgment of Sejdić - Finci which sounds like the article in the office of Bakir Izetbegovic or Željko Komsic. That's them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122266	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122267	Here's a thank you. So I must say, as far as I'm concerned, it was most surprising for me that HDZ colleagues failed at least to isolate their colleagues from the CDU and CSU's sister parties in order not to support that resolution. This part is fascinating to me, given the influence of both Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ within the European People's Party, and that they have failed to excavate with their colleagues and let them know what it really is. And Minister Grlic Radman means a month before that it says it is a harmful resolution and it will be a product of the Bosniak lobby, and three days later it says it is not important and optional at all and it does not constitute the official position of Germany. So these two sentences say everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122268	My colleague, Mr. Glavasevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122269	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. In your opening debate, you put on one side what you called a sovereign policy, on the other hand you put what you call a Brussels policy. However, do you really feel that these two things are at stake? European policy is an extension of our national policies of our national interests. We have representatives and advocates in the European Parliament who are fighting for the rights of our citizens and citizens, for the better life of our citizens and citizens. But there is one curiosity in HDZ that you may not have mentioned, which is when you look at how the HDZ's Euro MPs and the Euro MPs vote in the European Parliament, it's quite different than how HDZ MPs and MPs vote in the national parliament. So that's something that might also make sense to comment on in the context of some foreign or European policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122270	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122271	I also believe that you can be a full member of the European Union and lead a sovereign, truly sovereign policy. And I based here primarily on the minister's work on his work, his results. So I haven't even mentioned the release of billions, millions, etc., as we quote with the President of the European Commission, etc. We're here to discuss Minister Grlic Radman. And what you're saying is that individual representatives vote HDZ here, that in Brussels you have the same thing just on a slightly lower level, and that's here in the Croatian Parliament. So a few months ago, MPs in the City of Zagreb Assembly of the Order of the HDZ were fiercely attacking the mayor when he abolished the measure by the fostering mother, which I really support, and then my amendment here only a few months earlier where I asked for it to be introduced at the level of the entire state representatives from the HDZ ranks refused.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122272	A colleague of Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122273	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You have touched one defeating figure in your presentation, which is the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who has decreased significantly. And here I will remind everything of what is written in the Croatian Constitution in Article 10, where among other things it says that parts of the Croatian people in other countries are guaranteed special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. So tell me what you think all governments have so far taken care of our Croatians exactly in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122274	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122275	Thank you. The result of the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is unfortunately the result of all governments to say it openly and clearly what a problem the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have put aside, seen by some even governments as some foreign body and that of the left government. I don't have a problem saying that. But the fact is that this current policy has not changed anything about the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina either. So two days ago, in the municipality of Tešanj, a flag of the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina was re-burned in Jelah, which was taken down a month ago. And there's still no reaction. Here are colleagues from the diaspora, or from Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was no reaction from the foreign minister. The Croats are in central Bosnia especially where in the Federation minority they feel threatened by the Bosniak unitary policy and by these attacks on fundamental Croatian values.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122276	Comrade Busic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122277	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought I'd ask you another question, but since we've touched so much Croatians in Vojvodina or Serbia, I have to ask you. Mr. Pavlikek you know that I am very fair and would not have asked you this question if you hadn't insisted so much and actually offended your colleague Bačić. You said, "E when was the last time he was in Serbia?" And I'm going to ask you, you remember that we were at the Academy of Ceremony in front of St. Joseph in Subotica when Mr. Zigmanov then worked on his campaign, asking that we all stay the next day to help him in the campaign. Now, I've asked you to stay. Mr. Pavlovichk, you didn't stay. I was alone. Well, I'm sorry, I'm very sorry and... I didn't mean to do that to you right now. [[Applause]] And now I can bring you the pamphlets that I shared on Subotic and I brought and I left you and I don't know you didn't say anything. Now, Mr. Pavlovich, that's not so sovereign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122278	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Busic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122279	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. As usual, I know I'm getting a warning, but it doesn't matter. I don't think we're talking about the activities of our colleague Busic's campaign, which is probably what everyone is thanking her for, but the behaviour of Ambassador Bištevic, his statements that were really very ugly, the least said. Too bad he didn't get his hand in hand with you and share posters and help Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122280	My colleague Vucilovic, this has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I assume you've given your colleagues 30 more seconds to come up with a superfluous answer, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122281	You insult, you insult. This is an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122282	It's not an insult. I'm kidding. A colleague of Bušić's also injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my first breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm sorry it's you, I'm sorry it's you. But we're discussing it. I would never tell my colleagues this, and I would never hurt your Rules of Procedure because I simply don't serve it. That's too much for me to say without telling other qualifications what I think about it. Now that we've talked about it, while we've talked about it, we've talked about Zigmanov, who helped him. So bring him and ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122284	My colleague Bušić, time is up, colleague Busic. I have to give you a warning as well as a colleague, Vuciilovic. ... You're welcome. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's a colleague of Pavlik's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122285	Here I hope I've managed to come up with a good answer. My colleagues Bušić you are the chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and I am glad that you have stayed another day and have helped even with one additional Tomislav Žigmanov. And I've been more than five times since the time of the gathering means both in Bac, both in Tavankut and in.../he's not sharing what you can check with the Croats. But I don't have to talk about it in public and make out with it. But I'm sorry you never called the session thematically right now. But I'm sorry you never called the thematic session into the position of Croats in the Republic of Serbia even though I asked for it you know well. [[Intruder President: Please, colleagues and colleagues, let us be parliamentary, let us all....]] But you, I really like you and I'm glad you're doing your best to help the Croats. But we're off the subject here. The fact is that Mr. Zigmanov had to fight alone because the electoral law is such, and Croatian diplomacy failed to implement it within the signed agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122286	Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, we have a request for a break from colleague Milanović litre please. ... /The noise in the conference room... Please colleagues and colleagues allow fellow Milanovic litre to explain the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122287	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Croatian sovereigns, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Here are colleagues from the SDSS, but since it was about counterpart Zigmanov from Serbia, it was obviously a funny topic for them, so they laughed here. So maybe it's time we took a break of 10 minutes to get to ourselves to figure out what position the Croats are in in the Republic of Serbia, and at which point they are in and where they are in Croatian society, in the Croatian government, in all of them, by all means of political autonomy within the Republic of Croatia, so it might take them a little time to actually figure out what they are and where they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122288	Says the old tried-out recipe: "If you don't know what to hit the Serbs then," right? I'd like to give you a break. [[Intruding Milanović litre: These may be your methods?]] Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122289	Thank you. Article 238 has been injured. We didn't laugh at that. On the contrary. With this smile on our faces, we express our satisfaction over the success of fellow Zigmanov in today's conversation with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and that is why we are happy. And since the question has been raised as to who was last in Serbia, here I suggest that the last person in Serbia raise his hand. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122290	You also get a warning from your colleagues, Jeckov. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just a second. My colleague Sacic is now reporting, and I saw a colleague named Mlinaric come forward. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122291	President-in-Office of the Parliament, with great surprise, I declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure personally to you because you have offended this club and all the parliamentary deputies with this inappropriate and harmful intrusion, and I quote: "When there is nothing to hit the Serbs about." That is very ugly, unworthy, and please apologize. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122292	My colleague Sacic, I was cynical that you probably noticed, because I don't know where my colleague Milosevic and colleague Jeckov now appeared in the debate. The threads were involved, they didn't ask anything, and all of a sudden you're talking about them, so then I kind of cynicalally commented on it. If anyone is offended, I apologize to him. Here you go, fellow Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122293	Thank you very much. 238, here's to answer to my colleague, Jeckov. I was the first one in Serbia for nine months, and I did my time while your people were attacking Vukovar and I was never again because I can't leave because unfortunately I'm on an escapade there from the Republic of Serbia and if I left, I'd be arrested. So I wasn't and I don't want to leave and I'll never leave here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122294	Okay. Now let's stop hurting the Rules of Procedure and get back to the debate. My friend Bolt is now in line with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122295	If we're poor, we're poor. So you are competing and talking about who it was to help Zigmanov enter the Serbian parliament, and Serbia has committed by agreement that national minorities of one country will be represented in another state-level state. Since 2016, it is a framework that Serbia should respect in this process of joining the European Union, so that Mrs. Zdravka Busic, who was also in our Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and Grlic Radman and everyone else should not participate in the campaign as no one needs colleagues here who are not responsible for having these rights and I believe that they should not be called, but should be called Prime Minister of the Croatian Government and the Croatian Government which Croats do not have the same guaranteed rights in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122296	Thank you very much. Here's your answer. Here's your answer. [[WHISTLE WHISTLE: Are we poor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122297	I agree with you, my colleague. The criteria of things are in it. So in 2004, the agreement was signed. The Croatian Parliament confirmed, passed the Law, Article 9 makes it clear that Croatia is obliged to meet that members of the Serb national minority have their guaranteed mandates at all levels of government by legislation. What's the fact of today, the Croats don't have and that's all I can dream about, and that's what it's all about. This, once again, and I will not allow man to have any more problems mentioning him by Tomislav Zigmanov entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not thanks to any of us here, not thanks to Minister Grlic Radman or his public invitation the day before, and the day before that Hidajet Biscevic attacked the same Zigmanov, but thanks to his coalition potentials and negotiations and nothing more. Only thanks to himself and the Croatian community living there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122298	Thank you very much. Now it's Comrade Totgergeli's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122299	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Your Honor. Dear colleague Pavlikek, when you arrive with a motion to recall a minister, a man would expect you to come with one serious document. How serious this document is talking and your explanation to him because in your 20 minutes you spoke more about the government's manifestation than about your proposal itself. I am confident and convinced that Minister Grlic Radman will take more than 20 minutes to list all the successes of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia at a time when he is a minister. And you and I both know that in both Europe and the world today, the Republic of Croatia is much better than it has ever been. You don't think we should go back to the foreign policy we had at the time of Prime Minister Milanovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122301	Dear colleague Totgergeli, this is the answer. I've been talking about him for four minutes about the government's testimony. ... Look, once again, you can have a video. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So 13 or 14 minutes I was talking about our request. But you know what's the saddest thing? There's no answer here. Here there is “thank me my mouth” that old folk proverb, but there is no right answer. The best example is this Hidajet Bištević himself. He's not mentioned here, and one point should be about him. He's not mentioned by name or last name. What are we talking about? At what level is this? The third grade of elementary school is written. Don't insult us and our demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122302	A colleague, Ivanovic, please choose a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122303	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. The esteemed colleague Pavliček, the quantities of performance and the untruths spoken here in HS were always in favour of falseness. I have been going to the Republic of Serbia since 2010, and I know very well about the situation in the area of Baka, Vojvodina, and on Saturday, apropo, I have been to Djurjin, and this as an representative of the president of HS, and before that, I have been extremely many times. And what is true by the arrival of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, the arrival of a series of mayors and mayors and mayors of municipalities and cities belonging to the HDZ Croats in Vojvodina became visible, for the first time in its history the Croats in Vojvodina are a partner with whom they can negotiate and what you think is a coincidence that Vukic called precisely on Zigmanov to offer him a place in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a fruit Our love [[Intruder: Thank you]] But I think that foreign policy and some of our work have been done a long time ago. [[Upadica: Thank you, colleague Ivanovic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122304	My colleague Ivanovic, thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122305	Thank you very much. Disdaining the representatives of the Member States. 238, you need to know that Zigmanov did not enter the list of guaranteed rights as is the SDSS of your coalition partner here, but from the general list, that's important. Croats there have, Croats there have no right to even parliament, they have no right to the assembly of any... And at our levels we have 40 deputy mayors and mayors, 12 mayors [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] 3 guaranteed parliamentary representatives [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, thank you]] The Croats can dream there now, and... [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122306	You get, you get a warning from a fellow Bull because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. Here you are, colleague Ivanovic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122307	Except he's hurt. 238, the dignity of the man we're talking about was also injured. If you had followed the situation a little better in the area of the Republic of Serbia when the elections were then you wouldn't have spoken like this and you wouldn't have spoken this way. A colleague of Zigmanov had the support of both the Croatian governments and HS and, above all, us from HDZ, so he was also a guest at our assembly to thank for everything we have done for him to be in the Republika Srpska Assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122308	A colleague, Ivanovic, also responded to the replica, was this, so you get a warning. And let's go to the last line, Comrade Shimičević, here you go. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, he didn't answer, he didn't respond to his colleague Ivanovic, a colleague of Pavlik's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122309	My colleague Ivanovic, the fact is that this way I thank every mayor and mayor of the municipality and the mayor who has allocated any financial means to help Croatians in Vojvodina, not all of them, within the HDZ and the town of Vukovar, are giving for the transport of Croatian children, for teaching in Croatian, and I am glad and glad, as I said here we all need to blow equally, as we all need to blow as much as we do about BiH, but we return to the scale. The Croats have no mandates guaranteed today despite the agreement signed and the question is when they will have them, and today's meeting of Serbian Presidents Vukic and Zigmanov is only for one reason, because the gentleman entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If by chance he had several thousand votes less would never have come to that meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122310	And the last replica, my fellow Shimičević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122311	I would like to thank President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, Minister. A colleague, Pavliček, seems to have entered Zigmanov thanks to God, eating no one else in the Serbian parliament. What I'm saying is, you've said so much here and you're absolutely right and I think this impeachment is unfounded to you. What you may have said, and you did not, is that Croatian diplomacy was able to change the methodology of negotiations and that Serbia of the 35 open chapters had closed three, 23. The chapter is open in 2016, it is not closed yet, and if in this way Serbia respects human rights, the rights of national minorities will then enter the EU in 2060, you should have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122312	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122313	Kola Simičević, the question is how much hastening Serbia in the EU at all, this is the first question, it is very important whether they will want to join the EU at all or continue to hold this status, but regardless of the interest and task of Croatian diplomacy, it is that elections for the better status of the Croatian community and regardless of the open chapters that will not be closed there are bilateral agreements. This is a bilateral agreement between Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro's then state on protection of minorities and Croatia should insist on it to protect its minority. Whether we wait for Serbia to join the EU, we will welcome that the Croat in Vojvodina will no longer be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122314	Thank you, fellow Pavlich.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122316	It is over with replicas, we move on, now I call on the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and after him Foreign and European Affairs Minister Grlic Radman to speak now and present the position of the government of the Republic of Croatia, please welcome Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122317	Thank you, well-respected President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here is today, after we have already had several opportunities to meet and discuss the Committees on the Constitution and the Committees on Budgets, we have this and the last initiative to vote non-confidentially on Minister Grlic Radman, so let's round up this gathering on the parliamentary committees and plenary this session with your vote tomorrow of important points, primarily the trust of two new ministers, the rejection of this non-trust initiative, as the government has said in its clear statement, as well as ratification of the protocol on the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO when it comes to foreign policy issues. Since there is practically a lot that has already been exchanged in these replicas to Mr. Pavliček, who was the initiator of this initiative, which I see other than his party supported by some representatives of other parties and very charred, here you obviously have better cooperation than when it comes to an initiative to change the constitution and what is called regulation of the will of the referendum, I will say just a few things. Croatia's international and foreign policy position has never been better than today. Croatia will become a member of Schengen this year, become a member of the Eurozone, start membership negotiations in the OEDC, join our territory on the Pelješki bridge, bridge, that Mr. Dretar dear colleague from school has a lot more to do with diplomacy than you could possibly imagine, of course you don't know anything, you've never dealt with as much as most of you who started this. You have no international contacts, you would leave Croatia out of all the important processes, you have no one to talk to, they would lock us up in some small yard where they would throw something at each other. But the range is different, the goals are different, the possibilities are different, the people are wise, they give confidence to those who lead Croatia forward, and not to those who would lead it back, or if they had a chance to lead it or at least contribute little to our EU membership probably would never have achieved it, but that's what people see, that's what people know. What I just want to say briefly because I see that you have practically focused on BiH and Serbia alone, it is interesting, so Minister Grlic Radman and our government have done more for the Croats in BiH than any government in the last 20 years. We have put this topic on the agenda of international organisations and forms several times than anyone else ever has. We have helped Croats in Serbia, Croats in Montenegro more than they have been the government of boredom. Adrian Vuksanovic is the minister, we see that Tomislav Zigmanov could also become minister. The Croats in BiH are in the same unfair position as they were in 2006; your flocks, friends, friends went there to lobby for Komsic in 2010, cheered at the shushkovavci, were against the HDZ, were against the Croats in BiH, made sure that Komsic was chosen to go in an unfair political system from which election engineering and acting the spirit of Dayton, the constitution, the electoral law has existed in practice since 2006 and 2010, so it could not have been constitutionally gone for the third time in those elections, so it was '14. Covic was elected and is now in '18. It's repeated again, so they're all pre-conditions here to repeat it in '22. On the contrary, we have had an ever-consistent position since HDZ's representatives entered the European Parliament in 2013 and even as observers in 2012, we have even raised the subject more, more, better than others, put it on the agenda of the European Council, put constitutional peoples into a strategic compass, gave the framework of BiH support to resolve candidate status, but also to resolve constitutional reform and electoral law. When we started with the budget for the Croatian Office outside Croatia, it was about 50 million kuna, now it's over 150. So we've raised that budget three times and we're still raising it in the budget projections for next year. Every year we allocate almost 40 and a few million kunas to a hospital in Mostar and we get left-handed beatings why you finance Croatian health care in Mostar. Well, I guess we're right and we want to help. Why you're helping the university, we're right here and we want to help. Why you're helping the theater, we're right and we want help. Why you're helping out young people's scholarships, we're right and we want to help. Why you're helping different projects in culture and identity, we're right and we want help. Why are you helping the Church of the Croats in BiH, we are right and we want to help and we will help. We are doing all of this systematically, consistently strengthening Croatia's international position. Not everyone thinks like us. There are those who pay off their activities to achieve the goals for the Croats in BiH. Any attack on any of our partners, without speaking directly to those who should be part of a solution to improve the position of Croats, were all steps back. From big countries to international high officials. These are all difficult circumstances, but we deal with them. I am very glad that the vast majority of MPs supported the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO. That's what the government has been saying since the beginning, also supported by Minister Grlic Radman. We'll do our job responsibly and you'll do yours and we'll talk like this occasionally. We will win, you will lose, and Croatia's foreign policy will be stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122318	I now call on the respected Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Grlic Radman to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122319	Thank you very much, here is the Prime Minister's most important achievement, thank you President, thank you President of the Assembly. Dear representatives of the Croatian Parliament, what is more of these achievements, and they are many, you have here, I will not elaborate on you, but if you want today is all day long I will stay with you until dawn all you have, and if you can't read we will talk. The abolition of visas one, it doesn't interest you, you may not travel so much to the United States, you don't have this contact with congressmen, there could be much done, but there are four million Croats, Croatian citizens visiting their own, their relatives, going there as tourists uninterrupted in the United States. We have also launched an agreement on avoiding double taxation for the Americans of Croatian origin who want to return to Croatia. That's our intensity. So, we take care of the Croatians in the US and the business community, and the withdrawal of credits, credit ratings, gentlemen, and the financial reputation of Croatia is increasing. You think it's just like that. Joining the Schengen area will mean strengthening the security of Croatian citizens. I'm saying this not because of you, but because of the citizens who listen to us because they understand it. The IGP declaration went through a radar and consequent demarcation agreement on the Adriatic between Croatia and Italy. You don't care about that either. It's a historic thing. Entering the respectable circle of the countries of MED, MED9. I'm sorry you're not interested in all this, and you're supposed to be in favour of improving Croatian society. But let's be honest, it's just a front for your petty political interests. Don't you gentlemen fight for Croatian interests. You're just criticizing, exhausting yourself and calling us for infertile debates, and you're not offering any solutions. Today's session really has one value for the Croatian citizens who are following us, thank God, because they are the only ones who will understand and recognize the destructive nature of your proper debates. The rhetorical concern is one thing, but the facts that disprove you are another. On the other hand, attacking this government, you're actually attacking the engine that's driving, which is working, the engine that would drive and maybe faster, and you'd be driving, if it wasn't for you pouring sand into the gearbox, its speed shifter. Instead of demeaning and insulting it would be better, I advise you to go in your own direction instead of diminishing the reputation of this government. Raise gentlemen of your own value. So before you throw 32 stones at me, ask yourself what you've made of Croatian MPs who have political instruments and levers of the power of the parliament of diplomacy, but don't use them. Is your conscience clear? Can the public look you in the eye without you blushing because of your unhappiness? We, we can look into everyone's eyes, we Croatian government because patriotism implies responsibility and honesty, work on the well-being of Croatian people, inclusiveness of all citizens without discrimination. You call me all sorts of ugly names on a personal and professional level, so you gentlemen have described yourself in your own words. You started using the language of the street. Unfortunately, when the language of the street becomes a language of politics, politics begins to roll in the streets. As Minister, my goal is to promote Croatian national interests in the country and the world, to improve our even greater policy and economic visibility, I am not ideal but results which I have achieved with my associates [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They're obvious. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122320	Thank you, Minister. Wait a minute, just a little Prime Minister we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause.]] I've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and you're looking for a break, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure... No, no, no, no, no, first you'll get a break from the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122321	Dear Minister, live speaker here after your heart of paralyzing speech. No one will stone you, nor will you be a martyr, fear not. Stoned in the Middle Ages and stoned before Jesus Christ, and these people became martyrs. Do not insult Croatian MPs, Article 238, because you said we are not fighting for Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122322	My colleague Pavliček, this has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122323	Here, then Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122324	Come on, I gotta give you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122325	The esteemed minister said we are not fighting for Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122326	You said the same thing to him, come sit down, you get a warning. Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122327	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I will call on Article 238, we have today and in previous days more situations where MPs and MPs from all sides of this assembly, here today was a colleague of Kapulica speaking about it, complaining about the rhetoric of showing and calling traitors or not working in national interests. We have all sworn oaths in this assembly both members and members of the government. Can you use your authority's position to invite us all to refrain from doing so in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122328	My colleague Glavasevic, I invite everyone every time there is such a situation, but I would ask you then to invite your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition not to do so. Mostly you complain, first charge the government, representatives on the right for everything they bring back to you. And then every time after that, you complain that they insult you. So I cannot introduce such rules to warn only HDZ and members of the ruling coalition, and to tolerate a speech that is the same and sometimes worse than theirs. So I invite you all once again, let's not go outside the scope of a civilised debate and go to a personal level, that's often happening. It can be sharp, critical, and politically harsh, without touching the individual and agreeing with you. But now everything said by a representative of the ruling all said the same thing to him. Well, I can't believe it. Okay, never mind. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122329	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask for this break for something else, but I have to refer to what you just said because when we criticize those who lead the session, we don't usually criticize you. You know how to break up when the speech of individual representatives is set in some areas that have not been accepted, but I would ask you to influence some of your colleagues, especially on a colleague of Reiner, to do the same. Because the tolerance from the hate speech that my colleague Reiner shows first and foremost when he's running the session comes out of every frame. I know this kind of led me out of what would be allowed at the stop, but I referred to what you were just saying. But to get back to the agenda. It was normal and expected to listen to a colleague, Ivanovic, talking about municipalities and cities in Croatia belonging to HDZ. That's what we're used to. This is the way you perceive power and it is too often seen in Croatia, so we don't usually react to it. It was also fun to listen to the president of the government when he equates HDZ with Croats, either in BiH, or in Croatia, anywhere else in the world. And that's what we're used to, it's a normal HDZ rhetoric. But I want to thank Minister Throat Radman for making us all feel better here in the assembly. To talk about HDZ and this government as the engine of Croatia's engine that would lead us to a world I don't know where, turned us into Switzerland, Norway, some Shangri-la only if there wasn't this damn opposition that poured sand into a gearbox. Well, Mr. Grlic Radman, thank you for that. Thank you and it is obvious that everything in this Croatia is perfect just to remove the opposition because it is the only one that interferes with your fantastic work and the amazing achievements you have made in foreign policy. Mr. Grlic Radman again Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122330	Do you need 10 minutes to consult? Do you need it? [[If you'll approve them well, and if you don't do anything to anyone/]] Then I will not approve you. .../Laughter/... [[Clip intrusion: You decide]] All right, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122331	Injury. 238, Mr. President of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, to the extreme limits, removes what the minister is saying, means he wants to show some ownership of cities, municipalities, etc., so you suggested that Mr. Grbin remove Croatian counties with an explanation that you can visit all the places where the SDP is in power in the morning and that was your reason to suggest that the county is abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122332	Thank you. A fellow Hood was also a replica, so you get a warning. Let's go now with the replicas of the Prime Minister's presentation, please, Prime Minister, you have 14 replicas, first in line is a respected colleague Milanovic litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122333	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you said in your explanation that few Croatian Foreign and European Ministers have devoted more time to BiH. It's an argument for the opposition, it's an argument against the Grlic Radman because the results are zero. If we look at the way you operate in the European Parliament starting with a plenary session where there was a report on BiH where you failed to convince your people that they were voting against a radical, nakaradic report that actually pushes into some kind of a kind I would say Bosniak unitaryism at the expense of Croats, and thus also pushes the Kosovo Republic of Serbia into an even greater, even greater advantage over unitarianism and those rights of Croats who rape repeatedly over the years. What you've managed to do is remove here 13 of the diaspora representatives and you've put your future coalition partners and your safe hands of the minority in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122334	Thank you very much, thank you very much fellow Milanović litre. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122335	Dear Representative Milanović litre, I didn't understand this last, who did we remove?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122336	You removed the diaspora and put the minorities in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122337	I removed the diaspora?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122338	The person who put you in place, the head of HDZ, and who brought you to HDZ, did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122339	Wait a minute, wait a minute, give me this. My colleagues and colleagues, please, please, let's not throw ourselves out of place, let's not argue, please the Prime Minister now to respond to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122340	Mr. Milanović litre, I don't know exactly how old you are, but he's about more or less consistent with the number of votes you've won in the elections which is the first thing. The other thing is you have no idea about international politics, but you don't even remember the elemental evolution regarding MPs outside... in HS, for your information, there were 12 first, so it was not a fixed quota, so SDP's president then blackmailed the HDZ president and all Croats outside Croatia on three MPs, it's true to you, just like this pedagogue little fus note because you don't have connections. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122341	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122342	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, on the cover-up of crime in our embassies four years ago. with documents, you were briefed by diplomat Damir Sablak, who warned that the cover-up was carried out by Inspector Damir Christmas. In front of the Anti-Corruption Council, the new head of the ministry's inspectorate, Boris's co-worker, Petra Juras Krmek, testified that the ambassador's wife was some sort of flying consul and that all the heads of all Croatian representations in Australia were her superiors. I'd like to ask you if you've ever heard of this notion of some kind of flying consulate invented by the new ministry inspector so that the state institutions can continue to cover up the fraud and it's interesting to watch now that it was at the time of Vesna Pusic, it was, but you're protecting and hiding this corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122343	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122344	I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122345	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122346	I have to admit that it's starting to be a bit of a fear to ask me a question, there's a lot of aggression here for real. Yeah, I got to admit here's what I think I'll probably get the answer we're gonna win, you're gonna lose. I mean, what can I say to that? Somewhere around here, we shouldn't have the goal of winning someone but working really for that social majority, and your victory isn't the victory of the social majority, that's what I'd like to say in this debate because it's always pulling out who won, who's lost, who's got how many votes, I mean it really shouldn't be a goal, but I wanted to ask you who launched the drone, who launched the drone? In my last address here, I asked you this question, so you drew about a target on my head while I was walking down the street, but can we really get an answer to who launched the drone, do we have information about it, and are we safer in that NATO as you claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122347	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122348	Dear Representative Peovic, I believe my friends are not, perhaps they are yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122349	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122350	Thank you very much. I'm not afraid like my colleague Peovic. Mr. Plenkovic, now answer me why you haven't answered the parliamentary question, you underestimate both HS and the president of the assembly and me as a representative, but I forgive you and Mr. Jandrokovic, but you insult all the people who were in the camps, is that not a shame on you? Let me give you a little direction, perhaps you don't know that Major Vojislav Medic was arrested at the border crossing of the Republic of Croatia a month and 7 days ago, I was called from the DORH and called by a mass of campers to give, to testify in Osijek. Unfortunately, many who have been called back have died, do you not feel responsible for these people who have given such a sacrifice, the Croatian defenders eventually ended up in Serbian camps and that you have done nothing in these 6 years.? And to remind you of the Croatian public that the County Court in Split paid Serbian reserves 6 million kuna so far [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Only they were in the camp. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122351	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122352	Thank you very much, Mr. Mlinarich. You will be answered by the Minister in charge of this topic, which you have spoken of several times. And as for our activities on the topic of the campers, on the subject of war damage, on the topic of finding all war crimes perpetrators, we're working on it. Look at the track record in our time in our government, how many processes were, how many people were arrested, how many missing were found. Unfortunately, how many times did this theme and support to our campers rise to the highest level, you probably know that, but I guess it's convenient for you to talk about it so theatrically as if nothing was going on. People who know that, talk to me, talk to Minister Bear, talk to the minister, what, what did I do to you? What breach of the Rules of Procedure? I didn't even say we were gonna win. Therefore, you will get an answer from ministers who are working on it intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122353	My colleague Mlinarić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122354	238, and you, Mr. Jandrokovic, could have warned him, because I did not give the Minister of Resorship, I asked you as Prime Minister to give me an answer, not to me, but to Croatian campers. I'm not the Secretary of the Bear. I know very well what Minister Bear is doing, and what he's not doing, I know it very well. And don't brag about the missing, 40 people were found in your term, and we're looking for another 1800, so don't brag about it. Logorashi, no one has received the compensation of one, therefore, there is no, with these topics you have nothing to boast about. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122355	My friend Mlinarich, this was a replica. You're aware of that, and you're getting a warning. A colleague named Peovic also called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122356	238. The Prime Minister is too fast for me today, so I haven't arrived.../incomprehensible... at the time he insulted me, but I don't know if you're aware, so when you say that maybe my people launched the drone, and they weren't yours, I don't know if you're aware of what you're actually doing here. Do you guys really draw targets on people's foreheads? I don't know if that's clear to you, and then you'll be surprised when there's violence in public space and you'll say it's an extreme left. which encourages it. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122357	My colleague Peović, you get a warning, this is a warning no. 3 and you can no longer participate in the debate on this point. Now I'm sure you'll ask how. By getting two notices in the last debate and this is your third and you can't speak on this wheel. So, check out this game rules, I've already interpreted it before. Now it's my fellow Bull, here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122358	Dear Prime Minister, after a speech that would not be made by Minister Grlic, whom he would not be ashamed of, and Mao Ce-tung, we are aware that he is not well. It's not as great as he said. Croats in BiH do not have a representative in the Federation. That's a fact. The fact that you were trampled, humiliated your diplomacy by Minister Ahmetovic's representative in the German parliament. You've been hit, the Croats have been trampled, forgotten. They don't have a representative. Who can do this, how can you justify it to the Croats, and that was your main goal of being elected by the Croats to the representative body, i.e. Head of the Federation of the BiH Presidency, however, there are no Croats in BiH for a representative but obviously your friend A neighbor because I don't know why. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122359	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122360	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. As regards this optional document, or conclusion, of the Bundestag recommendation, you give it too much importance in relation to what this document is. Ask your SDP colleagues, they're their schwesterparte, they're not mine, so let them interpret it. That's number one. Number two, I don't know what you've been up to, where it's the Croats in the Federation, where it's the body of the Croats, our friend Komsic, so don't.../incomprehensible/... you have your friend who hung out with Komsic, ask him who lobbyed for Komsic, who went to his campaign in Sarajevo, who was against the HDZ in BiH, who was against the HNS, what you laugh about, that's what it's all about. So more damage you and you alike have learned for this process of trying to come up with a solution that would correct the wrongs towards the Croats in BiH than you can dream, and any of your appearances and similar to you Croats in BiH are in a worse position To whom it is not clear, he will learn... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122361	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122362	Thank you very much. 238 you've injured the article, you're disdaining the MPs. I asked you, I didn't ask my colleagues from the SDP, you were defeated, that's what I said, and as far as your colleague from diplomacy is concerned, I absolutely had nothing to do with Milanovic, so you are from the same incubator, you and Milanović, Jandrokovic, at the time I was quite different... and a whole other story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remembered HDZ in 2011, I forgot that I was in it back then. I founded it. So you and Milanovic can discuss [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Bulj, you get, you get...]] Your diplomatic relations and Jandrokovic. [[Intruder:... second, you get a second warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122363	No, I'm surprised you're giving up Milanovic now, very unusual. Until yesterday, you were chief advocates of his you and your colleagues. Well, not me now, now you're connecting me to Milanovic, which is very funny to you. Yeah, yeah. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's strange, it's a little disappointing... You're a little bit. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What, what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're talking about me. [[Intruder: Do not violate the Rules of Procedure and be nervous.]] Kola Bulj [[I don't have the instruments.]] My colleague Bulj, so like my colleague Rasudic, you call me, so I have to defend myself, as chairman, so... [[I don't have the instruments to answer you right now.]] So I can answer [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you see that you have [[I don't have the instruments to answer you.]] Come on. [[/Intruder: Business. I don't.]] Come on, all right, come on, get it over with. [[You're from the same incubator.]] My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122364	Thank you. In fact, you are inextricably connected to Mr Milanovic, but I will now return to the question of Mr Plenkovic. In fact, I wanted to ask you a question about how from one of the staff of Croatian politics, so 2005, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the watchful pass of Mate Granic, so where did you cancel out, let's say, Ivo Sanader, you, Zoran Milanović, Gordan Jandroković, Mrs. Colinda, Maya, so from one staff, in fact, from one, I'm going to say, the staff reserve, how beneath your concerns, so how did you get to choose Mr. Radman as foreign minister, and I'm actually giving up the question. You know why? I just realized after his show. So every guy like you needs someone to cheer you up, and that's actually the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122365	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122366	I don't know, Mr. Hajdash Doncic sometimes knows how to be funny, sometimes creative, and sometimes he misses the whole ball so someone doesn't get me wrong, but this one's totally, I just don't know who Maya is. Does anyone know who Maya is? Some Maya, you said there was a Maya, I don't know any Maya. Which one? Who? Bee Maya? All right, I'm gonna do some research on Maya, if we're not God knows what may be okay. Well, I don't know about that, but since there were no questions, I don't have anything to answer. I'm wasting these seconds on myself and you. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122367	Okay, now he's going to be replicating his colleague Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122368	Dear Prime Minister of the Proponent's Initiative's explanation, we heard that the Croatian government has no success in BiH's Croatians. I want to remind you all here that this problem with the position of Croats in BiH has been going on for more than 20 years, that I remind all of them that the Croats then tried to raise their voice against injustice, that they then went to the Croats with tanks, that then many Croatian officials were removed, that many Croatian officials were charged unjustly, that many then thought they had resolved the Croatian issue in BiH. Today we see that the situation of Croats is being debated on the European Council. Today we see that the position of Croats is being discussed at the US-Croatian forum. Today, we see that in the negotiations on the position of the Croats on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's verdict, legitimate Croatian representatives are negotiating. How do you interpret this initiative is it well-intentioned or simply aimed at making the situation worse for Croats in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122370	Dear Representative Vidovic, I am pleased that you have listed and listed how difficult the situation of Croats in BiH has been for more than 2 decades, how systematically it is that they from an equal constituent people are essentially reduced to a minority. In my performances and interpretations of the position of Croats in BiH and, in general, to BiH, I would like to explain to my colleagues what the three images are about. Three images of the international community. One that created the Dayton Framework after the war, one that was personified in the European Court of Human Rights rulings and one that exists in one part of the international community that today makes BiH simpler on the way from Dayton to Brussels. These three images are contradictory, and this last one is the most devastating. for the Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122371	Comrade Frankovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122372	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, today we are witnessing a debate, so we must seek the confidence of a minister and come to the turn of Minister Grlic Radman. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the euro zone, Croatia's entry into Schengen, the abolition of the visa for entry into the United States and a whole series of other foreign political successes. It's forgotten today. It's about the Peljek Bridge, so I'm going to quote that someone has asked the question of what this has to do with diplomacy. Whoever has nothing to do with diplomacy then thinks it doesn't really have anything to do with it, and we know how much trouble there was about the safety of the passage, etc., proof, EU letters, etc. And how much work it took to get rid of it together. Also, it has been very important for years to call HDZ to help Croatians in BiH and Croatian institutions, universities, etc., and today we are witnessing a complete oxymoron, so the situation in which you say you are not helping in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122373	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122374	Thank you very much, my esteemed representative, Frankovic. I am pleased if you have a few minutes here to spread a little bit to Mr. Dretar as it was lobbying, who lobbied, and how it led to final decisions on co-financing of the Pelješko bridge, such a tiny 357m euros of non-refundable European funds just to bring Croatian territory together. That's what everyone who's been doing on this project has done nothing to cause, in the valley, that's what a joke is, and nobody told them it would be good if you financed it. They did it all by themselves, no diplomatic and political effort there was supposed to be invested because it's kind of like Christmas celebrating December 25th, that's what they all said but that's what we're gonna give you don't have to try anything. So perhaps for those who are not below, it wouldn't be bad to explain a little to them, especially those who have contributed greatly to the foreign policy and diplomacy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122375	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122376	Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, we are witnessing here and recently from colleagues Radoja Vidovic about the terrible difficult, tragic everyday life of our citizens, the Croats from BiH, above all who are victims of major Serb aggression, whether the enemy armies of Republika Srpska, whether the armies of BiH, who remained without parents, who escaped by actually playing the case across the border, found refuge in the Republic of Serbia and today are here at 25.30 years old, did not unfortunately realize their... like those who were killed as civilian victims of the Homeland War in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What can we do specifically for these people in BiH, where can we guide them? We talked to Minister Bear. He has no solution. Mr. Radman at the state level with BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122377	Thank you, dear fellow Sacic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122378	Thank you very much. As for the Croats in BiH, I am pleased that you support the HDZ representative who is elected on this list, tell your colleagues, there are 3 of them now, all of them from the HDZ, so whether they are all HDZ and it is good that he remembers a colleague to you young people who don't remember what it looked like before, it wouldn't be wrong for me either if there were 12, but those before me have decided, it's not me, you're dissipating it, it wouldn't be bad for him. As for the Croats in BiH and members of the HVO, I think that as far as the scope of their rights is concerned, we have been doing a huge step, just as Minister Medved, who brought and was the chief initiator in dialogue with the defence associations of new legal solutions, has always taken care of them, and as far as all the victims are concerned, our doors are always open, support to Croats who are practically, almost all of our citizens in BiH are constant and strong, continuous and will be like that forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122379	Thank you. Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122380	... HS. [[Last-on speaker]] Honorable Prime Minister, two years ago. in the campaign for this assembly, we highlighted your unwavering position in the first term on the need to ensure the full equality of the Croatian people and highlighted the contribution you make to strengthening our cultural, educational and health institutions and many other needs of Croats in BiH, all others with wood and stones on HDZ, especially on you, was a result of 3:0. It is one of the trusts created by the obligation to leave, our exit from, together to work, to get out of this invisible situation where we found ourselves in spite of the victory in the Homeland War, despite the huge sacrifice and the suffering that we have suffered, and I will remind many here because younger, the Croats of BiH have made a significant contribution to the creation and Croatian state, an immeasurable contribution to the defence of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122381	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122382	Thank you, well-respected representative Barbaric, I agree with you and it is good that you reminded your colleagues, I hope that all colleagues, especially some of these younger colleagues from Mosta, now know who you and Mr Vidovic are. There was a situation not long ago where they wondered and who you are, which is not particularly a show of respect and collegiacy, and also respect for the Croats in BiH, otherwise his colleagues are full of Croats' mouths in BiH, but here they have part of a team that says they don't know about you. This should be repeated, it should be put on the air that those who think that those who are in charge of working for the Croats are not working, and those who can't do anything and are making it more difficult to say it cynically and who are you. It was one of the most embarrassing exhibitions in this high house, let's not forget it and let's do it again, let's get it out of the naphthaline so that we know who is who and how it applies to Croatian representatives from the HDZ of BiH to HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122383	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122384	Dear Representative of the Croatian Government, here in your youth you worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you were for a time thinking at the Embassy in Paris, for years in the European Parliament, and I believe you have enough diplomatic experience, so I ask you whether it is normal for the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs not to respond to the statements of the Croatian Ambassador to Belgrade, where he accuses the Croatian political champion of being the main culprit that the Croats are on the sidelines of society and that there is a businessman and at the most sensitive moment for the Croats in Serbia before the elections for the National Assembly itself, whether it is normal for his, let's say the formal boss, to which we send the picture as diplomat, here is Grlic Radman to all others how they should behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122385	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122386	Dear Representative Pavlichek, and how do you know that he didn't react, how do you know, what do you think he doesn't see or hear, doesn't react, doesn't call for responsibility, how do you think he didn't react? So I think you saw everything Minister Grlic Radman said and how he gave strong support to Croats in Serbia, political parties of Croats in Serbia and the Croatian National Council. Who do you think Mr. Zigman consulted before the election what to do, you know maybe that, did he ask you who he was going to vote with and how he might have listened to you? Perhaps he spoke discreetly and intensely with someone else, perhaps even with Minister Grlic Radman, and perhaps a miracle was chosen in the National Assembly of Serbia, perhaps behold a miracle becomes him as Adrian Vuksanovic Minister of Government, perhaps Minister Grlic Radman has some good advice sometimes, and perhaps he doesn't tell you, perhaps, but you don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122387	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122388	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Prime Minister, I've been wanting to ask you a question for a while. So, there is, and now I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, namely, there's this hot sport that we're developing, and that's a sport of mud, and then behind that, they're all muddy. Now, every time you come to this assembly, it's with great joy that you take all of us MPs to various epithets and tell us what you think of us and that's a lot of it, so I'm just curious after that, are you feeling good about yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122389	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122390	Respected, esteemed, and dear lady. Mrak-Taritash, if you want to talk to me we can meet for coffee, we can have a meeting, we can get on the phone, you can write me a letter, you can do whatever you want, here I'll see you right away, you're a parliamentary representative, if you asked for a meeting we'd get together right away, we'd discuss everything that bothers you. I didn't notice that I said any word today that was offensive, difamatory, perhaps incorrect, rude, I didn't do it. I unfortunately read in the newspaper today very ugly words that the alleged allies say to each other in the town hall, you won't hear it from me, it's not realistic to hear it from me. I don't know what that might make me so angry, be insecure, provoke and throw out a beat so I can say something like that, and some people who are this close to you seem to say that to me like that in the ether, but nothing, double archaic, and what are we going to do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122391	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government seems to me that you have not listened very carefully to your minister who has quite offended us because here he has more important things to do, not to answer questions here from the evil opposition who called him, but it doesn't matter. I wanted to ask you something about the fifth reason in this document that we are discussing today, concerns the case of the Sabelak diplomat, who pointed to corruption that Croatia, hah, has been reduced to corruption every day, today's arrests in Varazdin, is being searched at the Environmental Protection Fund, but apparently there are also some diplomatic representations and talk about some cover-up of this whole case that is being denied. But what to say when on the Anti-Corruption Council, Ambassador Faro and Inspector of the Ministry of Christmas make contradictory statements. One says Konstanovic had a contract as a contractual diplomat The other says there isn't, etc. Yeah, well, now whoever's lying is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in that case. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122394	Dear representative Vucimilovic, I, with my best wishes, did not feel that I was offended by the minister. How did you interpret that he insulted me? I wish I could have hurt the Rules of Procedure or abused it if nothing else, but I didn't get that impression. Whether I am in front of the Croatian Parliament and whether I want to be so if someone proves it more than any other prime minister in this term and first and second, so I think even the minutes spent here can prove it. So that thesis sting doesn't stand, it just doesn't exist. As far as my fellow Sabelaks are concerned, I really don't know what happened to the council you mentioned and who told who. This is the case from the time of some other governments, some other ministers, let the bodies be seen, let them deal with it. I remember him from our early days, he was a great football player. He played football so well, he and his brother, we all admired them. I didn't follow this much later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122395	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122396	Dear Prime Minister, here's a comment on two claims, which I think is a fact. The first is how the proposals of this initiative were very quiet when it was necessary to criticise the main damage in Croatian foreign policy, which is President Milanovic, who wherever he went, did whatever he did to our country. They were quiet, even defending themselves, or holding his ladder. And the second question, here I am responsibly saying that Minister Grlic Radman was a random target because I know reliably that the promoters of this initiative when they spoke about a potential coalition with HDZ never spoke about the problem of Minister Grill Radman. The only problem they pointed out, I really know, they were talking about the problem of minorities, and the problem of any minister, and especially Grlic Radman, they never said a single letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122397	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122398	Thank you, well-respected representative Zekanovic, I have the impression that you are better acquainted with the details of that time than I am. And I have no other choice but to give you the trust and the truth is, I followed their statements no one was against Gordan at the time. He seemed to me like he might be working with him. Maybe it was someone else. It may have been the partners of minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament because they may have been nervous about the president of the government and the president of the HDZ. He can go with anyone from HDZ except himself. This is even after they realized they didn't have a blackmailing majority on the night from 5th to 6th was still spoken. So it's one big political shortsightedness in my deep conviction of almost some pathological hatred, I don't understand why. I don't see what we did or I personally against my colleagues, but I think we're very much sharing the protection of national interests, but something is stronger than them. I didn't find out what the ingredient is that makes them do it, but that Gordan is their proudest and then, today probably nice in the depths of the soul, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122399	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more replicas. You can come back. I call on the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The minister has 23 replicas. So, the first one will be replicated by counterpart Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122400	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister, then, in your presentation at one point, you asked if our conscience was clean. If I were to pay you back with the same measure, then I would ask if your conscience is clear because Mr. Sabelak is the last person to go home, and he was actually doing everything that any responsible citizen in this Croatia should do. In your testimony to the Anti-Corruption Council, you admitted in fact, which there are also records, that you personally called him off the record for an informal conversation that he did not want to respond to. What he wanted was an official conversation. My question is very clear. For what reason, Mr. Sableak, after you were officially informed of the crime that was going on, why didn't you invite him to an official meeting?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122401	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122402	Thank you very much. You know, I'd like to say enough once, but I'm kind of having that minute. So the whole thing goes, let's go, I'm going to be quick from 2012, and otherwise Damir Sabelak is actually politicized, he's a victim, you've instrumentalized him. In 2012, '13, '14, '15. It shall become an authorised secretary-general, etc. And there comes a new minister who sets up that lady he later remembered doing something wrong. And he was promised to be ambassador to Bratislava. However, it was not respected by the new minister or in agreement, etc., so he was offered Hamburg and he meant later when he was deployed somewhere else he remembered some problems about corruption, etc. and became a wrinkle. It's a very silly, ugly story. Mostly no corruption, sir, you manipulate the public here, so the DORH has rejected it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122403	Here you go, fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122404	Dear Minister, good afternoon. Is there perhaps corruption in Hercegbosan County more specifically in the Lithuanian Valley where residents object to the award of illegal and bazaar concessions of certain suspected characters from Berlin that you publicly advocated, publicly lobbyed for them, for a company specifically called Solbus d.o.o. where they received the concession, in 2020 they illegally began to perform the works, the locals rebelled, the government made a commission where objectively on 24 pages gave a report that it was not a good concession and then you were seen next to the Minister of Hercegbosan County, so you are seen there with priests in lobbying and mysteriously overnight. Solubus and Lara Naturalu [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] the concession shall be granted and the concession shall be [[Thank you very much.]] is revitalised. [[Intruder: Fellow Troscott, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122405	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122406	Mr. Troscott, what you heard, said, etc., I was simply found. But I would answer you with another question. Were you on Bogovic's street yesterday drinking gin tonics? Were you? Well, how can you tell me now? I got one the other day, how can you talk to me about things that I've never heard of in my life but for the first time I've heard about you? How can you say that unverified? Bring me those people I'm with, which is, uh,/incomprehensible... I, I, I listen to you and I wonder what kind of play you're playing. So we have a scene, we have an audience, we have actors. That's how it comes down. Just like someone told me that I suggested someone for the Croatian World Congress, I've never seen a man in my life. You see how false information is created, Mr. Troscott. I think you should ask,.../incomprehensible/... have a factual state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122407	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122408	The Honorable President of HS, Art. 238. Minister, it will come out very soon and all your lobbying and your sitting with Mr. Vukadin who have made an overnight change of decision where you have favored the murky characters from Berlin and publicly advocated them and that will come out very quickly, this corrupt shop, the ministers. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122409	You have no right, but you are being warned, colleague Troscott. I mean, if, if you have knowledge of the crime, you're obliged to report it, you're probably aware of it, otherwise it's slander really, but this one, we'll talk about it later. Let's move on. Now it's time for my colleague Pavić Marko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122410	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. Well, it's very ugly of my colleague Troscott, from someone who doesn't even know who the Croatian representatives from BiH from the Assembly are that I'm lyingly slandering, but let's go back to the contents of the recall itself. When the motion for your recall arrived, I thought it was a mistake, I thought we were going to praise you because how different than the moment we entered the euro zone, when there was a recent article in a list that said that we were able to cross both Bulgaria and Romania for Schengen, when the Strategic Compass entered into the stone the constitutionality of the people, when we enter the OECD, how can we not praise you? And my question to you is, let us know a little bit more about the strategic partnership with France. There's Minister Clement Beaune who's a scholarshipist... of Europe, like me, was there in Zagreb, we had President Macron, we buy Rafael, which includes everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] this strategic partnership, and why is it important? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122411	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122412	... Mr. Pavić, here is when President Macron was, unfortunately, in 30 years of Croatian independence the first French president to come to Croatia and of course, Croatia, although it is a small country, but extremely important in this geopolitical area, in a space that shares with Southeast Europe, with the Western Balkans and is signed, this strategic partnership that will result, where I will sign an action plan somewhere in September, based on this strategic partnership, which, of course, includes a lot of cooperation with this great country, you have seen and you know that we have bought Rafael, that there is also a whole series of areas, which, of course, of common interest. [[Specially enabled.]] So, this is a very important, important partnership with this great country. Just like Germany. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122413	Mr. Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122414	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, Your Honor. Today, during the debate, there were also a number of words about R. Serbia, and especially about Vojvodina, the town of Subotica. During your stay several times in Serbia, especially in Subotica during.../incomprehensible/... in October, if I am not mistaken during 2020 with representatives of the Croatian National Council in R. Serbia, among other activities, you signed a contract on the financial assistance of the Croatian House. During April 2021, you also attended the laying of the foundation stone, and I am only interested in what stage the construction of that home is today and what resources the Republic of Croatia was involved in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122415	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122416	Thank you very much for that question. Of course, it was October 16th, and actually it was later, so I was on several occasions in Subotica and the House of Ban Jelačić, and then I met with President Vukic, of course, where I was actually all these questions that were raised today, where I also remember that after the talks before the media, President Vukic said that it was a hard conversation with Minister Radman, so the question of compensation for the campers and the question of missing persons, it was constantly on our agenda. You must know that we never give up on the protection of Croats in Vojvodina and Serbia. Here, soon this, I hope, we participated with great financial assistance, were here recently and representative of the Croatian National Council Jasna Vojnić and Mr. Zigmanov, whom you keep mentioning, he was not only at the HDZ Assembly but he was also a member of the Croatian Council outside, therefore he is very much involved and I am very grateful for his support. and support when he became, when he was actually elected an MP in the National Assembly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122417	Thank you. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122418	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, since October of last year, Croatian citizens no longer need visas for travel to America, for me it is a supreme event, made it easier to travel with the world's greatest force and I believe that what others have dreamed for many, many years is now available to all, to all citizens. Please, if it is not the success of Croatian diplomacy, what is it? I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made great efforts, and I would just like to hear from you how much the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has contributed to this great and significant moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122419	Thank you very much, Mr. Burke. Of course it's a great success, it's actually a second recognition of the Republic of Croatia after 30 years, a confirmation of its sovereignty and independence. So more than 4 million people with Croatian passports can travel uninterrupted to the US, develop, develop business activities, Croats are far away and must, have sometimes had to pay visas, have their relatives upstairs, tourists go, go now of course without any problems and that is important, meaning that Croatia is a safe country, that the Croatian passport is a cultural political emissary, it is a confirmation of Croatian sovereignty and Croatian statehood and of course, but also following this agreement that I also spoke about is a double taxation agreement. I was in Chicago, Toronto, and I have, of course, many of my relatives who look forward to this agreement because then the Croats who retire will come to Croatia without paying an additional tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122420	Thank you. Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear Minister, I have a question for you today, 3rd year. You are a minister, and your colleagues and colleagues from the party will of course defend you, you will defend yourself, what I would ask you is whether there is any decision of yours, some procedure in this 3rd g. which would you change if you could, so is there anything you would have referred to yourself as criticism? Here, there doesn't have to be anything to change yourself about, but I wonder if you think you've made a mistake anywhere, if that's what it was and, or do you think it was all an egg app? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122422	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122423	Thank you, Mr. Glavasevic. Otherwise today, I'm very impressed by your very good questions, the question of NATO is whether the objection is etc., I'm sorry that I haven't been able to discuss it a little bit, of course no alliance is ideal, and it's always becoming important the moment when the appropriate situations come where the actual purpose, the purpose and the existence of such an alliance are proved. Of course we're all wrong, and that's, maybe the biggest mistake is not to admit and not to see a mistake of our own, but it's important not to make a cardinal mistake. I'm, I'm the original Croatian diplomat, here is Mr. Hajdash Doncic, sorry he wasn't here, I guess he forgot when he was the minister that I was his secretary... The commission called up in Budapest and was very, very overjoyed, now asked here how I was like, why I was invited to the minister, and otherwise I was a humanist in the '90s, so all those who were listed right here see nothing by chance that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is a wasteland... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] politicians and diplomats. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122424	Thank you. Yes, it is, when Gogi chooses there is no mistake. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122425	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, it seems to me that this opposition initiative has fallen apart because almost none of them have stayed in the hall. It is clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, cares about Croats living in neighbouring countries, but also around the world, and you have through the answers that we have received and made clear. That is why it is strange that the foreign ministry and the government are being attacked for the care they express, but they are not condemning the actions of those who, in fact, with their statements or actions, violate the status and Croats in BiH, but also in other countries. What I am interested in, and I have noticed that through your foreign policy work, especially through development cooperation, you are paying more attention to bilateral cooperation by paying attention to this human right and also to respecting religious freedoms, I wonder if you have responded to this situation that was recently in Nigeria where 100 Catholics were killed at the Holy Mass for the Spirits?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122426	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122427	Thank you very much. Here we have today made one decision in the government, so it's more than 50 people who died, among them are children, and we have given the appropriate financial assistance of 30,000 euros. However, this menu is glad to actually have me here today, in some way, here's what you say and attack and it's okay, this means one good, one good arena where you actually prove it, the opposition has the right to question the responsibility of each of us ministers and since I am really here and as an ambassador visited those countries where they live and the Croats, first it was Hungary, there I met a lot and a citizen Croat and there was a poet who said when you say good words to God pay you, be happy and shameless, classy to beat, and not straw. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122428	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122429	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in your recall, even during today's debate, your relationship with the BiH issue is being questioned, especially with regard to the situation of Croats in BiH. I closely followed your work, at the end of the part of your mandate I sat with you in the government of the Republic of Croatia and, if I remember correctly, you visited some 15 or 16 times so far during your BiH term. Likewise, every more important meeting at EU level has been used to point out the need for the protection and equality of Croats in BiH, as well as to highlight the issue of BiH's stability and precisely the foreign ministry's initiative held a whole series of discussions in the form of ministers at EU level. And this is precisely why the issue of the position of Croats in BiH has long, long been on the agenda of the European Council. Please comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122430	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122431	Dear Mrs. Bedekovic, look out, there are several parallel directions that are being done when it comes to BiH. It is not really just political legal status, the position of Croats in BiH. We as a neighbouring country with experience, which is an EU member, are helping in many projects, primarily energy infrastructure integration. This is important by financing the insurance of various scholarships of young people in order to stay in these gray zones, unfortunately, to the dreary areas where people are really leaving and we want it to stop this one demographic disappearance possible because it is nevertheless the biological reserve of the Croatian people, it is our direct border. We have a stable and functional BiH in our interest, and we will always stand only through the equality of three constituent peoples. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122432	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122433	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, here's how long it's been since you've seen it, and Mr. Pavliček himself has ended up on the ropes alone in impotence, he's already been before the surrender. And you saw for yourself even believe that, even to me, they were alone, the opposition was gone, the ring was abandoned, the only other theatre attacks that had no purpose aim aimlessly with some fabrication of falsehood were forgotten the history of reality and what this government had personally done. But let's give our support because I don't know where Mr. Pavlichek is, I'm sure he would need it after that exposure he was in a difficult situation. I believe even that he is sorry because he is a noble and good man, these are our sovereigns of good men and I believe that they are sorry that they fell into such a trap to ensnare in such a riddle that was too great for them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122434	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122435	Thank you very much, Mr. Deur. Of course, I share the view with you, of course, that this is about good people and I think that we feel the same way about all of us when we talk about the position of the Croatian people in BiH, but not only of the Croatian people in BiH, but also of the minorities. I would tell you here I may have been less in Serbia, but in Montenegro I discovered Boka Kotorska, I discovered a very good co-operation with Montenegro and with very intense bilateral meetings of Montenegro which is also a divided society but realizes that the European perspective of Montenegro goes through Croatia. We have now agreed with both the Minister and the Prime Minister to mark the death in Morinj and the murder of their admiral who did not, he did not want to destroy the city of Dubrovnik. Also curricula taught in Montenegrin textbooks. So, about Boka Kotorska as a heritage of Croatian culture. So, a lot of quiet things we're quiet about. Return of Croatian boat Jadran [[Intruder: Thank you.]] etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122436	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122437	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Grlica Radman, here you are from 9 a.m. and surely you've witnessed very well to the whole situation where our creative opposition from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. supports Croatian foreign policy, then from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. and who knows how long it will last is against, and then who knows at what time midnight or before midnight will be back for. So, in any case, my suggestion is that this is the whole picture and opportunity of our Croatian opposition, and I want you to continue to deal with the MED9 initiative, which might be something good to say, because this one today was too little time, so let's say the initiative of the Three Seas, and also the strategic partnership of Croatia-France, but also the partnership Croatia and the United States. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's the theme. which are extremely important. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122438	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122439	Thank you very much. Indeed, here's how you double a man's job, asked me, asked my colleague Glavasevic if there were any mistakes and I'm doing my job consciously, responsibly, and others are there to determine. Of course, if the Prime Minister is unhappy, he's the one who set me up, and he's the one who's gonna replace me. I have here, my ambition is Croatia, working in the interest of the national interest of the Croatian state, Croatian people, Croatian citizens and supporting this government, meaning this one with the excellent Andrej Plenkovic because for me it is irreplaceable regardless of how someone interpreted it here. But there's a lot of things that you know that, which simply these achievements, I only did when I asked that my preparations really make them out of the analysis that happened in these three years, I couldn't believe that I had 40 official meetings with ministers. There's an MP who said when she saw me on TV, she was trembling, that she was embarrassed, so that 40 ministers weren't embarrassed, that they weren't shaking, and I'm 35 in return. So that's still Sometimes here's what's happening. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] bilateral. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122440	Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122441	Dear Ministers Grlic, the decision of the government in 2016 established a Commission to monitor the implementation of the transitional criteria in the negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. One of the tasks set out in the commission is the monitoring of the legislative framework for the protection of minority rights in Serbia, which has so far not protected the rights of the Croatian minority in accordance with the agreement with Croatia. According to the decision of the 2016 Government, the Commission is chaired by a foreign minister who is obliged to convene at least 4 meetings of the commission annually. However, you ministers have not called a single session of the commission, which violates the government's current decision. Did you get Prime Minister Plenkovic's written order to violate the government's valid decision or to voluntarily sabotage Croatia's institutional oversight of Serbia's obligations? Please give me the exact answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122442	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122443	Oh, thank you very much, Mr. Rasdic, so you're a smart man, watch out for 2016, okay, we can have, of course, so it's not a problem to keep, uh, something that we ourselves talk about and make decisions, but you have to have an associate. So we had later on in a series of areas of a particular commission and they met, so in the judiciary, defenders, etc., the question of missing persons and then, of course, came the crown, then in Serbia the elections, etc., I was really trying to find an associate or encourage that cooperation and discuss these issues and issues that burden us. How that doesn't work, then where Serbia, since it's looking for a European perspective, then I have to do it on foreign affairs councils, which makes them uncomfortable, reminding them that the rule of law is important, that there is no excelling of war criminals, to compensate campers, missing persons, so... It's not just a bilateral question. It's universal issues. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122444	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122445	Art. 238, reprimanding. In fact, it's clear next. If you consider that government decision unnecessary or unnecessary, it should be annulled, legally regulated. And for six years, it's been broken, and in your term of office, the 12 sessions you were supposed to hold, you haven't held one. So either undo that government decision or start doing what it says. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122446	Comrade Rasudiæ, this was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122447	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Uh, I want to somehow touch this interagency one more time, which we often mentioned today because it's pre-liminary. I really want to tell my colleagues, especially my colleagues in the opposition, that it's really pre-named and that we don't do it. Prelimension of something that is not binding at all is not good, in addition, we are only helping those who have boasted this whole week as if the UN Charter had signed and now Croatia has left out there, so let's not do that. It's an ordinary unitary pamphlet that only said something to the man who represented him. And it was also said that no one said anything by CDU/CSU. I'm really calling, I'll take the second time on, on my board literally quote what happened all because [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It was only 30 minutes to discuss it [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Busic.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Comrade Busic, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122448	Time's up again. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122449	Thank you very much, ma'am. Busic. Of course, you're absolutely right, so we really elaborated on that this morning. I am sorry that you may have been conscious or unconscious, that the colleague Rasudiæ, in fact, built a monument by a marginal representative of Bundestag's name, in fact, and caused him unexpected satisfaction in a high home like HS, in fact, you have in some way disgraced the dignity of this High House by exaggerating this accompanying document. Tell me, if you know the EU, what effect will this.../incomprehensible document have? Please tell me, imagine a situation, who will object to Croatia somewhere within the European family that Croatia has no right to defend and protect the Croats in BiH? Please tell me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122450	Thank you. You can't ask an MP because you don't pollomize with him right now, but you explained what you wanted. Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122451	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister. First of all, I regret that, in the absence of facts, my colleague Pavliček had to use the untruths regarding the Croats in Serbia, what seems to them because we were in Serbia together, that is, Vojvodina and you and him and me, but good. That's right. This shows the opposition that later left this assembly. Although my question should have been addressed, concerning the return of Croats to the Republic of Croatia from all over the world, primarily from overseas countries, I will change what my colleague Rasudic said. So foreign policy is not a statistical meeting to put a clutch on if something had been held. Foreign policy is concrete measures and actions that lead to concrete effects. For example, when the Republic of Croatia chaired the EU and when we used that right then to change the methodology for new members and which does not enforce human rights, it will not be able to meet even other criteria [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that's what you're thinking of R. Serbia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122452	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122453	Of course, Mr. Mazhar. Nothing is, you know, time, truth, passing and that's problem one. We can't, I told President Vukic that. Let's go solve these problems. Let's not leave for the next generation. The next generation must be relieved. We need to relax our relationship. No, let's not go back to the past in terms of some kind of border crossing and some kind of nationalist rhetoric. Tragedy happened, the culprits knew who they were. I then use the Council for Human Rights, the Council of the EU and where I am saying that Serbia is not fulfilling its obligations. Therefore, there are third parties. If we can't sit with representatives of Serbia, don't think our mechanisms and political instruments are exhausted, then we have other paths, so someone else will warn them. Also, and this one. High Commissioner of the OSCE for Human Rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122454	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122455	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So since I come from Baranja, with the extreme, practical boundaries, that is, the east of the Republic of Serbia and the borders with Serbia, believe me, I really know the situation in, among Croatians in Vojvodina, Serbia. However, I also have a number of relatives there, although I haven't been there for 20 years until some things have agreed, but here, I can first hand convey to you the thinking, or attitudes of people who live there today, this one. Indeed, for the first time now they feel concrete and strong, solid support for their home country. This is reflected through numerous projects, both in culture, both in education, even in infrastructure projects by the Republic of Croatia, from the lowest level, from municipalities across the counties to, to, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And they are truly grateful for it, after all, it resulted in this election result of Mr. Zigmanov's victory and we need to continue in this style. The only thing they fear, what they fear or that they are disappointed with the new authority in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The city of Zagreb that abolished them [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Summering children at sea. [[Intruder: Comrade Shashin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122456	Comrade Shashin, please, let's just hold on. We're all starting to get out of time. Let's stick to the time, please. [[I can't, yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122457	Thank you very much. Watch the summering of children at sea, watch out we have on Pag this while I was an ambassador we have agreed with the Central State Office for Croatians who runs State Secretary Zvonko Milas, those on Pag have this holiday and it seems to them they are, we have extended even 50 or 59 years. What is important is that the issue of regulation means the position of the national minority in Croatia such as Croatia, Croatia in Hungary is one paradigm in the European context, which was studied in Vienna on 9 November 2015 in the OSCE Resolution. So where the two countries are praised for the best way to address standards, rights as well as with all citizens means the issue of national minorities. And we are satisfied with the position of the Croatian minority in Hungary and how the Hungarian government treats them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122458	Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122459	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, I am pleased that in the opening explanation and in response you expressed some successes of the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but that you also called representatives for inadequate diplomatic parliamentary activity. And I agree with you we can discuss everything and maybe this impeachment is a good thing, because you can express everything you've done in the last few years and we shouldn't be ashamed of it. I didn't get an answer from colleagues in the opening line from Pavliček to my question, but I'll call, and I'll ask you. Today in 2022, your recall is required in the year when we have a representative in the Republika Srpska Assembly, when we have a minister in the government of Montenegro, when we finally merge our territory with the Peljeski Bridge. For BiH, I won't even mention all the activities, when we have a visa regime between me, I think three countries that have free entry into Europe, which have free entry into America. Of course, Feel free to go and talk. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122460	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122461	Yes, thank you very much here you have said, actually I am really then and grateful 32 of these signatures and opposition to really say here and they have the right of course because they are thinking the same thing about these issues, these problems. So don't think that these problems, they're immune to our policy in fact, so we're worried exactly, that's exactly what we're talking about. They make us strong, it's part of our business. We're in this business. Of course, but then it's also not convenient for you to hear, everyone hears when they react normally, I love it if there are arguments, but if someone says you're a third-rate diplomat, I respect it, but then someone reminds me who's first-rate and second-rate, teach me. If I'm not up to this job, let me be told what and what are the arguments. Tell me, find me an affair in the outside world that I'm communicating with, tell me some minister that he complained about me, tell me some country that she was complaining about me. So, Not only is foreign policy here in Zagreb, so am I [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You like me, or you don't like me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122462	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122463	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, and here, listening to these opening statements, including the proponents and the government's manifestations and your obvious all the objections to the work of your ministry and your personal work concerning more elections, the electoral law in BiH. So it seems to me and I am getting the impression, and it is important to stress, in fact, that from your actions both personally and the ministry, the governments of the entire Republic of Croatia will clearly see that no solution will be supported that will not be supported by legitimate political representatives of the Republic of BiH gathered in the Croatian National Assembly. So one short question, if there were no action, your actions and your ministry, would there be any of these meetings in both Neum and Sarajevo and the EU at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122464	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122465	Well, of course we've had a lot of things, all these activities and these meetings we've just generated, we've encouraged so we've put the issue of the position of Croats in BiH on the agenda. It was not seen before, nor on any council before spoke as it was spoken now, not on one but on all councils. There is no council of course of foreign affairs and the European Council, which is a political body where BiH is not spoken of, and thanks more to Andrej Plenkovic, who has advocated the strategic compass and the conclusions of the European Council, where it is said that further efforts by political leaders in BiH must be made. But I'm not an election law minister, it's not just election laws, I'm not sitting at the negotiating table. You must leaders simply they must, they are responsible for BiH's future. You can't influence, I'm just one Croatia is one of the actors in that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122466	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122467	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, most of the signatories of this proposal for your impeachment are recent fans of the foreign policy of the President of the Republic of Milanovic. Now, like you've been dealing with for many years with foreign policy, I have two actually short questions. First, what did the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia look like at the time Milanovic was prime minister towards the Croats in BiH? And secondly, how much does he really harm the Croats in BiH today with his rhetoric?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122468	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122469	Thank you very much. I know Mr. Milanovic, you know this by the time he came, when he was brought by the hand to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in '94. Years, '95. And he was constantly adapting to situations. When he saw that HDZ might also lose after President Tudjman's death, he found refuge in the SDP and was promoted there. However, he has never, in fact, been, in fact, in fact, a special relationship towards BiH. I remember the talks and I know how much he accused both President Tudjman and Croats in BiH were simple or Bosnians and Herzegovians, so what they really advocated is the civil state, out there perhaps in Germany, etc. Therefore, he is not consistent and these, now hastily this one transformation, a change that should contribute to a better mood, is actually more harmful and counterproductive and is not consistent with the government's efforts to do so. He makes a statement and then... He's gone somewhere, and he's gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And we're doing a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122470	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122471	I would like to thank the president of HS, Your Honor. Well, in the absence of good ideas, the opposition does the following. When the bush wears the papers, collects the signatures, when he's finished, then Mrs. Devereaux takes it. Dark-Taritash. When she was finished, Dark-Taritash, then comes Marijan Pavliček, so they've all arranged, and unfortunately all the ministers have come to recall. But their score is zero, and that's how it's gonna be. For those of you who have been 16 times, as I have read in BiH, you are honored not to fight for the interests of Croats in BiH. I don't think I can figure that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122472	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122473	Thank you very much, Mr. Simičević. Here I am truly with a lot of pride, I would never, would not be such a man if this, therefore all you do, you do yet must have honor, you must have dignity and you must have honesty and as I was raised what you know, and always home education is important, which you can, you see in some who may not be exactly like that, do not sin against a man. Therefore, the most important thing to me is this relationship with people and their satisfaction. 16 times, I'm going to Boogoyno 20 to St. Eliu, I was invited there, so I invite everyone who may not have been in that city, where the Croats used to be the majority, unfortunately they have now become a minority and very hard to live and it's not easy for them, I'm going to encourage them, I'm going to give you support, but I'm also going to go to the Nuts as well, and I believe that you know that we're going to start a cosulate there in the September month in Orash, which is important with Posavina that part where the Croats live.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122474	A fellow Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122475	Thank you very much. Today, it's been interpreted as defending, and in our own words, we want to say that it's all wonderful, wonderful. Well, then I'll quote something. The invitation to join the OECD says that the OECD membership clearly recognises that the country respects the most global standards, that it is committed to the values of democracy and the rule of law, that it respects the principles of an open, transparent market economy and that, together with other Member States, it shares a common objective of sustainable economic growth. So that's what others said about us, and to get into the OECD at all in any negotiations and close to that, is proof that some who have now received a call for negotiations with us, to start negotiations in the OECD as Romania, let's say, Brazil and some have made demands in 2012. We're in 2017, we're already on the line, and those of 2012 came with us, so back in about 7, 8 years, and that's proof here, the work of diplomacy, Government, you and the Prime Minister. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122476	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122477	Thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli. Here you were the witness here, so there was one 3, 4 days this OECD General Secretariat delegation headed by Ulrik Knudsen, who later joined us, the Dubrovnik Forum where it also published a publication, we presented together a publication on medium and small entrepreneurship, investments in the Western Balkan countries and Turkey, which is impressive in fact with the work of the government and agencies so far, and indeed within those 6 countries, Croatia is a favourite. There is a big job ahead of us, but listen, membership in such a prestigious organization, the richest states, so there is a G20, or G7, according to which, which have the highest standards, so to Croatia, how to explain to an ordinary man when he asks what that means to me. So a better standard, a living standard, a bigger investment, a legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122478	Thank you. Thank you very much. And the last replica, my colleague Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122479	Yeah. The cream at the end, Mr. Minister. Yes, the world is definitely small, with the prime minister from school, I've been hanging out with you around Zagorje, but here we are. We did not throw 32 stones at you, but simply consider that as an opposition we have both a job and a commitment to talk to you and to point out to you what we think is wrong and that you can do better. We know very well that you will be Minister and tomorrow after the vote and here, I want you to be that by the end of your term. You said yourself that we should perfect ourselves, and here I am some years ago, and I've enrolled in a diplomacy study, so maybe one day, maybe one day I'll try to be a good minister at least like you. But for the end, in these 15 seconds, let's just go once more because it's an extremely important thing, in case R. Serbia tries to excitate its obligation to the Croats reciprocally that the rights, which you will take And what are your plans? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122480	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122481	Don't worry, Mr. Dretar, we're worried about it. They can't eskicipate, we've done hard work, we know history, we know the victim of Croatian defenders, we know how the Croatian state was created, so there's no eskiculation. And what you said about 32 stones, I said it more rhetorically, but you guys heard me sign my recall. Not that I'm anything now, you know, I'm tomorrow, I am today, I'm not tomorrow, I don't care. I'm just a man, but be careful, you want my shift. So I have my dignity, we have our dignity, I have my family. I can't say now that you're my enemies now, but you've now shown yourself those who want to bring me down, therefore, I can't tell you, of course, I'll take it with a smile, but I can't forget it to you, I know what names are signed and who want my shift. Why? So why do you want my shift? I was supposed to be bilateral in Romanian yesterday. You stopped me for this. Today I was supposed to be in Dutch with my minister You stopped me for this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122482	Thank you colleagues, don't throw it away, Minister, it's my fault that you're here today because I called this agenda, it's not your colleagues and colleagues' fault, so you don't have to get mad at them, and in Romania, the Netherlands or Belgium you'll be leaving, and now you can go back to your seat. Thank you. [[/Intruder Grlic Radman: Thank you very much.]] If they want, in fact there are no representatives of the board here, but we are going to the debate right now, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Most, the two are representatives, colleagues Rasudic and colleagues of Grmoja, please welcome colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122483	The unconstitutional Electoral Law in BiH has not changed, I say unconstitutional because it was ruled by the BiH Constitutional Court. Our great partners and friends as the most normal thing mention the need to abolish the constitutionality of the people, which is the basis of the BiH Constitution, which is Annex 4. Dayton Peace Agreement. All parties except the AFD and Linka in the German parliament voted for the accompanying text of this second document, but all including the sister HDZ in the CDU in which they condemn Croatia as well as Serbia, caution that they stay away from BiH and accuse the Croatian leadership of separatism. If God had given it so, may God have been in BiH what the Germans think, that this Covic is a little more alive down there and that they are really separatists when we already have the rights of tomorrow that BiH has failed and disappeared if my people are not equal, that God has given it so, but it is not. 12 meetings were not held to monitor Serbia, 3rd year. The government's decision is broken, no one's decision is made. Hidajet Biščević Ambassador to the Republic of Belgrade muds in Croatian media Tomislav Žigmanov and nobody else. We asked on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia to invite them both to a conversation to see what it was about, it didn't happen. It would be almost as if Serbia's ambassador to Zagreb in Belgrade's politics were to publish a code against Milorad Pupovac, representatives of Serbs in Croatia and nobody. Montenegro was omitted to NATO in 2017 that no border was resolved, as there was a terrible haste, so it is known where the border is. Today, we heard from the minister a mind-blowing thought that will take place on the next occasion, when Montenegro again enters NATO the second time, and then perhaps we will take advantage of it. When all these arguments are made, then we are convinced of some quiet continuous work by Plenkovic and Grlic, but from which no one has ever seen any result or shift anywhere, so we can reasonably suspect that there is anything and any of that work. It's like that emperor's nonexistent new tulip, everyone admires him, and basically the emperor is naked, where are these results? They say put in a strategic, this sucks that a complete German scene this vote this, it doesn't mean anything, but the strategic compass is important. Imagine the strategic compass being placed in the BiH Constitution, these are constituent nations. So nothing, tell the Croats in BiH in the fall when they are revoted, when public companies are kidnapped, when they are pushed on the edge of poverty and emigration, tell them to stick to the strategic compass, it will help them. An opportunity has been missed to do something about the commitment of Finland and Sweden to NATO, we saw, for example, Turkey could, and we did not ask for anything incorrect and not fair, however, only to respect the BiH Constitutional Court's peace agreement and decision. Perhaps an even better opportunity has been missed, and this is the European Council's decision to give candidate country status to Ukraine and Moldova, and the B, BiH skipped. If BiH had entered that path then we could have used some carrot to condition certain things with the pro-European forces, there are even in Sarajevo, and something is achieved in terms of a fair deal, but the opportunity is, the opportunity is missed. Instead, Plenkovic and Grlic acted as anesthesiologists leaving, this is true, they often went to BiH, but they snuck in the Croats, gave them anesthesia, time passed, we warned, I called on the Minister of Greece at a meeting of the Croatian Committee outside Croatia to resign if there is no change in the Election Law. The time has run out, the law has not changed, he has not resigned, he has not submitted, and he has assured the Croats that in cooperation with our partners there will be this change. I will quote only two statements, on February 17th in Brussels, Andrej Plenkovic said, quote, it is crucial to go to the next election with a new Electoral Law that will allow legitimate representation, not to go to elections at any cost, it is not necessary to go to elections under the old law, this is what Andrej Plenkovic said. Now they say we should, so let's all mobilize and list something here so I don't know a few thousand from Croatia that we can achieve something, which is of course useful, but that Croatia can't save. Another quote, Grlic Radman says, quote, we would agree to hold elections under this law which is now we would admit that we do not support the rule of law, completed the quote, March 23rd is... In contrast, High Representative Christian Schmidt to whom Plenkovic awarded the award of Red Ante Starcevic from his political family whose acquaintance boasts together with the ambassadors of France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and the EU's special envoy to Sarajevo in early April sent a letter to the BiH authorities asking for an election to be organised or otherwise to be considered, quote, an act undermining the rule of law and democracy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who's right now, Grlic Radman, because by agreeing to an election under the old law, we've admitted that we don't support this rule of law or that it's not an election which Schmidt says is undermining the rule of law, see you who are paradoxes, paradoxes and colitis? What could have been done? Well, parole policy. We have the right to use vetoes at the level of working groups and EU ambassadors in Brussels for not using BiH here we have hundreds of decisions, etc. which could block the next principle of reciprocity. In the end, it turned out that the whole of us, not the whole of the EU, were being dragged by our noses, as a foll was negotiating with Bosniaks, time was wasting, time was running out, elections would be called, Croats would then be politically decapitated, further and economically and demographically. Who's to blame? No one because there are no huge successes, you know no one's ever done anything like this before and no one's ever seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122484	Here you go, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122485	Since we have said something through replicas about what this government has done to make Serbia actually respect all those obligations, here we have seen the commission not meeting, the government's decision is being broken, and Serbia is opening a chapter, nothing is being done. Our representative must enter the Serbian parliament with the help of Mrs Busic there to participate in election meetings, and here our SDSS team needs no help. They don't come to help them, they have guaranteed seats. But what I'm going to touch is this where you're caught with your fingers in a jam very deep and it's seen by these answers. Plenkovic refused to answer the question, you're messing around, you're saying first that Damir Sablak is our victim then you accuse him that this reporting is a fruit of some unrealised ambition, then you're lying to the ministers and you're saying that the DORH has concluded this case, is not for your notice if you follow less. The DORH has called again, so the Throat, the Throat of Radman, would be good to call you, and will call you soon. He invited Damir Sabelak to the hearing, and you take it out, interestingly it is a new strategy, so this happened at the time of Vesna Pusic. True, it happened at the time of Vesna Pusic, but you're hiding it. Which is even more criminal. HDZ ministers are covering up crime that took place at the time of Vesna Pusic and HDZ's government. Well, Vesna Pusic has a similar policy towards BiH and this Plenkovic HDZ, so it's not surprising. So I'm asking the question here, the respected minister, so I don't know if you know it that proves to the ambassador's wife, Bertosa Kushen, that in 2014, she planned the fraud with the secretary general of the ministry Cvetkovic. So he has an e-mail that proves it. Someone's gonna end up in jail. And if you get on time, if you get on time, I'm gonna end up in jail whether, well, that, that's what we'll see. Only if you introduce some kind of dictatorship and then political opponents might be, did Lavrov give you advice on how to deal with the opposition? Would you poison me perhaps, Mr. Gordan, the Throat Radman? Are you going to poison me because I call you corruption? While you quoted him and revealed that he was a warm poet, he may have given you advice on how to deal with the opposition. But I will continue to expose your corruption, and you, if you continue like this You won't go well. [[Intruder: Thanks a good time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122486	I think politicians who have experience choose words, and in choosing words, and I also think that raised people listen, Mr. Grmoya listen to me, please, choose words. They don't use words like they say you're lying because there's a lot of synonyms. They don't use words like you used in your speech. I won't give you a warning, I won't go down at that level to warn you. You provoke, I know you well, but I beg you in the future a little introspection and look at your conscience a little bit. Mr. Hood, you're safe, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I have to react because I've been listening to the quotes that Mr. Rasdic quoted, so I'm going to quote him. So it is so drastically clear that the Komsics chose the Bosniaks that only complete political balvanies like Milanovic can still express satisfaction with such outcome, Ninoslav, Nino Rasdic on 19 October 2010. I admit I was naive, I admit I was naive. It was even fun how that political elite that [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Hood.]] By yesterday, she listened to every myth from Brussels now playing sovereignist [[Intruder: Mr. Capula time, time.]] Nino Rasdić 2014 about Zoran Milanovic. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122488	I have to give you, I have to give you... A note and two, please, for two facts. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] One is that it was a replica, and the other time you're a little bit of this good, a reminder mostly. Let's move on, Mr. Rasputic. Here you go. Let me put on the phone and hear what you're saying. Let me hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122489	I'm totally behind my statement and you can see that I was right. It was a balvanic, cretinous policy of demeaning Komsic or I am happy that Zoran Milanović evolved and Tudjman evolved after 50 and Zdravko Tomac and Zoran Milanović, it is a phenomenon on the left. [[Intruder: At least a little bit to get up.]] But I'm sorry that you HDZ are sinking deeper and deeper, assist Bakir Izetbegovic. I'd like you to go that way, too. I will commend you as I praise his relationship with the Croats in BiH today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122490	Thank you very much, thank you. The warning, of course, was a replica. Mr. Deur I just have to, he was first. [[Intruder: 239.]] I'm sorry... [[I'm sorry.]] second, but just to tell you one thing, you have a third that you know, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That would be the third, yes. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Deur. No, no, no, no. ... [[I've got a third?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122491	238. Mr. Detachment, you're a genius. Your history is political. You yourself know how many Croatian children died in your town, gave their lives, while you supported the coastal Bosnia. I'm glad you evolved as a Croat. It's nice that you evolved as a Croat. Probably, maybe Bulj evolved you, I don't know, maybe he gave you here as he did today, probably in a few years you'll tell Plenkovic he's as good as Milanovic because that's one process that at your place... [[Thank you. Thank you.]] /Intruder: Time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122492	Not entering any content, for formal reasons, by default, it was a replica and going notice. Here you go, Mr. Hood. That would be the third, you know, I have to, I have to say, but turn it on, turn it on, no, turn it on. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122493	Croatia needs to make it clear that it will not only support BiH's European path but also block the country's candidate status. ... Because of the Croats, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what are we talking about today? We criticise the government for why it didn't open, why it didn't put along with Ukraine, when BiH was also an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122494	Once again, not entering any content, for formal reasons, it was a replica, and I have to give a warning. And now Mr. Marian Pavliček is on behalf of the promoter for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122495	Dear Chairman, Minister Grlic Radman has a very special vocabulary. Some people find it nice, but some people don't. In his initial presentation, he mentioned that 32 representatives would stone him, do not be afraid, Minister, no one will stone you. The rocking times are long behind us, and neither will you become any martyr. But he also said we'd be remembered, so I hope that we won't end up in some court of HDZ and be convicted after a brief procedure. But he said one very important thing, and that's where we differ, Mr. Grlic Radman, my exposure from yours. You told the opposition, don't fight for Croatian interests. In my almost 20-minute presentation, I did not mention in any word that you are not fighting for Croatian interests. I said there was no score. And that's how your war is measured. That's what measure the work of all of us. We were in sports, in any business in private, we were in politics. Finally, the result is only the result, and as far as you're concerned, is far behind, and we cited it in those five points that you're trying to challenge, and you failed to dispute, but your parliamentary representatives then take out visas, with the United States, on the Pelješki bridge that has absolutely nothing to do with what we have stated. You haven't been able to dispute these points that we've cited because there are no results. Comrade Deur, we haven't left the battlefield, we're here, don't be afraid, and we'll be all the way. And thank God. Comrade Mazhar, he caught me like a drunk float. Probably because we are from the same city, mentioning that I am speaking falsely about the position of Croats and influences, or the result of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No results. One more time. Today, Tomislav Žigmanov in the National Assembly of Serbia, thanks to his calculations, negotiating experiences, the support of the Croatian state has been given what, in the words of Minister Grlic Radman 2 days before the elections where the Croats were called to vote for his list, and 3 days before, the ambassador who answers you calls the same Zigmanov and says he is guilty of disturbing the Croatian community, that he is guilty of being the Croatian community on the sidelines of society, that he contributed to it, etc. Here, I would like, Minister, that, after me, here, you answer the question why you have not responded to the shameful statements of Ambassador Bištevic, who directs your accounts. You are his employer and it is inconceivable that one community that has already been so weakened because of the policy that is being led in R. Serbia is further weakened by the statements of its own ambassador. You can't kill this. I'm sorry, you can't kill this. I can't kill your deputies. You can't kill this. You're extracting in your answer, so you're extracting in your answer, I'll quote what you've stated. As far as border disputes are concerned, he says with Serbia, the Croatian initiative was renewed in 2019 but the pandemic of Covid-19 disease, resulting in an end to travel. Well, I believe, with me being at the head of the Civil Protection Headquarters in the city of Vukovar for a while, that we still have those passes that we can't leave our residences yet if you're not able to go to Belgrade or any of them here and negotiate border disputes. And you express your hope that these negotiations after the establishment of the new government in R. Serbia will be renewed, and you, as an experienced diplomat, know that nothing has changed in Serbia in the past 10 years, i.e. since Mr. Vukic took over power, he was the absolute ruler of Serbia before and after the elections, and you did not have to wait for elections to sit with their delegation, it just shows that there is not enough interest, initiatives on the Croatian side. I'm sorry you didn't use your coalition partners from the SDSS to establish better cooperation with Mr. Vukic, which you should have, you should have done, and that's the quiet diplomacy, but she's failed you as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122496	Thank you. Thank you. You have replicas, however. Mr. Mazhar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pavlikek, here we are not only from the same city but from the same street, the Trpin road, the proud road, and I am pleased. For the truthfulness of the data, however, you said that nothing was done for the Croats in Serbia, that nothing had moved, that they were not anywhere. Then we see that there are still from Zigmanov in the National Assembly and down, so I don't know if you were with us in Ilock on June 6th when we signed cross-border contracts between the EU Ministry of Regional Development and the Croatian Communities in Vojvodina in the amount of 3 million kuna, and next year it was planned 5, so Mr. Zvonko Milas 9 million from the central office. Money is ungrateful, not to mention. You and I both know how difficult it is for the Croats in Serbia, but you also mentioned that perhaps the poorest minority may be forgetting the Croats on Janjevo, I believe that they are not much easier and not much richer. So, I was just saying, What you said. [[Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Mazhar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122498	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122499	Here's a thank you. All of what you've listed as your colleague, Mazhar, has nothing to do with the Resort Minister whose impeachment we're talking about today. So I will never challenge you for any kuna or any euro that will come through cross-border cooperation, nor will I ever argue that here are the colleagues sitting on your side as mayors of the municipalities helping Croats in Vojvodina, as well as a number of other mayors of the municipalities and even the county, be at the head of that municipality of someone from the sovereigns, someone from the SDP or the HDZ. And that's commendable. But it doesn't matter. It even saddens me that Croatians must fall for local communities to help them because the resolution ministry has failed to secure their political status. And based on this political status that they would have their financial position in every respect would be much better and then they wouldn't have to ask literally how they say to beg for every kuna that comes from this by the Danube. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122500	Mr. Mazhar, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122501	Coliček, a colleague, injured Article 238, so what we said is demeaning. The fact is that the minister has everything to do with it, he saw it himself from what Croatian representatives say about both the government and the prime minister and the minister and say what was done. But also the fact is that all those funds we won't mention because they're not exactly mentioned are thanks to the members of the Foreign Ministry who are also deciding on these funds and allocating funds. So it's a direct ministry. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] and the minister involved in the allocation of funds. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122502	There was a replica going on a reminder. Mr. Deur, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122503	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I didn't say you were a battlefield, but at one point you really looked to me in a knockout and I see that you've recovered from your recovery, you're great to me, you're the one who is truly one extremely honorable man and noble, and that's why I'm sorry you're coming in, you've entered this riddle. Minister Grlic is one responsible minister, a responsible man with responsibility for his resolution ministry. Surely in this responsibility there may always be some situations that can be interpreted in various ways. But instead of giving support, let's not be destructive and let the destructives use this nobleness of yours. Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122504	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122505	Dear colleague Deur, you have seen in my debate I did not go to insult anyone, demean anyone on any basis, nor did Minister Grlic Radman. This initiative we launched, we launched for one reason because we really think Mr. Grlic Radman didn't do the job right. That there are simply no results, very simple. Maybe he's trying, working 24 hours, but ultimately there's no results. And I'm sorry. As Mr. Grlic Radman put it, he was 16 times in BiH. Well, he can go 66 times, if there's no score there's a problem. There's the biggest problem. And we'll all end up being quantifiable only by that, by the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122506	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122507	Thank you very much. A colleague, Pavliček, Zigmanov, entered from the general list, a coalition list, was not guaranteed a mandate such as Milorad Pupovac and others, a life term and, of course, that Bištić's great friend told Zigmanov, that Zigmanov publicly stated that he had resented him and that he had no support because he took pictures with me on some foreign policy committee. It's out public you can find. So much for Minister Hiyadet and his friendship. But we'll put that aside, too. Chovik, who came from Tomislavgrad to leave his people on a raft without a oar at sea, on the high seas somewhere alone because they don't have a representative. He hit that people so hard, they don't know where they are. The only thing they're good at when they're having votes for when the election's over. and what concerns the representatives [[Intruder: Time.]] in BiH, they don't have anyone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122508	Mr. Pavlovichk, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122509	Here, thank you. That first part of Tomislav Zigmanov said here the prime minister about an hour ago, you know who he consulted with, look, Tomislav Zigmanov made the decision he considered best at a given time to enter the National Assembly and he succeeded in it. I congratulate him on that and it has nothing to do with the minister or any parliamentary representative here because a man had to fight for it himself. Everybody knows that. If we're gonna deal with lies, then we can talk to who he's communicating with, communicate with many of us, but he had to do it himself. As far as Croats in BiH are concerned, their position is what it is. Unfortunately, Croatia did not have the strength to slap in the diplomatic sense a hand on the table and fight to amend the election law rather than the opposite of even our allies, especially HDZ allies from the CDO, from CSU have stabbed in the back with resolution on BiH [[Intruder: Time.]] both Croatia and the Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122510	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122511	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Pavliček, therefore, the debate in which we mention Ambassador Bištovic in Belgrade is one serious debate. So it's absolutely about the ambassador doing damage there. It's about the foreign minister trying somehow to close our eyes and reduce it all together, but let's be honest. Foreign policy is created in accordance with our constitution between the government and the president, while the relationship between the government and the president is a way to put out their conflict or fire with kerosene. So, however, the foreign minister could have done something, there are silent diplomacys and damages that have been done there and the damage already seen for the former elections has already been done, and what really needs to be pointed out and it needs to be insisted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122512	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122513	I agree with you, the great minus of Croatia is that we do not have a uniform foreign policy, and there I do not feel that the minister is guilty because of it, and the president of the country is having great guilt, but I believe that sometimes this silent diplomacy, not sometimes, unfortunately, so far as you speak has not produced results, let us sometimes show little and we Croats teeth, some other peoples show them, and they ultimately profit, and we Croats are honest, just bow down, I guess we learned that in those 45 years. That system just shuts up, put your head down and where whoever kicks you there and stays, and that's why we do, let's sometimes run that sovereign policy. For me, modern sovereignty is not what the government has stated, not because it is the primary goal and obligation of diplomacy and its job to fight for the strategic interests of Croatia and to ultimately achieve them, most importantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122514	Mr. Foreign Minister Mr. Gordan Grlic Radman has five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There was plenty of time for us to be people here, so every man and of course has an emotion, and by culture and social intelligence we try to contain in ourselves maybe some of this or let's say what Mr. Grmoya has caused, so that's outrageous for me in the assembly. I would never say one word like that through my mouth, but Mr. Grumoy has his own home education, he has his own education, and then he knows what he's saying. There's little time to talk here, but I'd like to finally shed light on this truth. Mr. Pavlovek, I like a lot of things, I like the way you say the same thing, but this thing that I wanted to tell you when I told you about the achievements you know, so you have to understand that in all these five points that I'm not the foreign minister of these five points, so I want to tell you what I'm doing, what I'm really dealing with, what's in the jurisdiction and what's in my portfolio, but we can talk about it later if you'd like to share an opinion with you, because I see that we're on the same actually track, and we're losing ourselves in some of these unsaided situations, and that's not good, you know it's not good, we all are in the interest of the position of the Croatian people in BiH. These include Damir Sabelak on corruption in foreign affairs concerning the period from 2013 to 2016. when the MVP was headed by Vesna Pusic, it's because of the public. In the period since March '16. until October of '16. During the time of Minister of Peace Kovac Damir Sablak was authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The case undoubtedly stems from Damir Sabelak's knowledge of items he later called corruption at the time, without any argument, without immediately informing the minister of his duties. Instead, with a year away, only when the Bridges ministers were resolved by the Prime Minister's decision or when Most stopped participating in the government after Damir Sabelak realized that he would not get the promised post of ambassadors appointed to decide on his knowledge to inform the minister and simultaneously submit criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator. Mr Sablak submitted a series of additions to the mentioned criminal application, and subsequently filed criminal charges against then Chief Inspector-General Pejcinović Buric and myself personally when I arrived in 2019. when I was going to call him on a college call, so let's see what it's about, what it's about. I know a colleague of Dominic Sabelak, and there are no problems, so we're at the end of our co-workers, and he figured it out differently for you. In addition, Damir Sablak has launched proceedings before the Committee on Conflict of Interest as the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. In all these actions, my predecessor actively participated, of course, that I was also in the difolt and continued to do so myself, so no cover-up can be spoken of. Taking into account the fact that all criminal charges of Damir Sabek have been rejected by the decisions of the competent authorities can neither speak about corruption in the service of foreign affairs. The procedure of a serious injury against Mr Damir Sabelak was not initiated because Damir Sabelak, even with serious time-out and used falsely, had already filed a report with the DORH 9 months later for reasons not waiting for the decisions of its unargumented authorities, continuously communicating against the authorities, the public and individuals. Despite the facts of the proceedings before the official court, Damir Sabelak was only two months away from the service after the procedure was launched, and because of the fact that he participated in Mr. Grmoje's press conference, which in the meantime became his open political sponsor. This political sponsorship continues even today, you have probably got that e-mail which is actually Loretta is not at all thinking the secret but has sent it as far as I have now understood in this correspondence, you have now, I see that you have received it supposedly, everyone knows, we are small, Croatia is small, continues today, despite all the facts in two proceedings that are further being conducted against Damir Sabek, the procedure of severe injury and the process of distance from the service. Damir Sablak was not fired, Damir Sablak was only temporarily away from the service until the end of the procedure for the serious injury against him, and during that time even though he did not come to work again according to the applicable rules he receives an 80 % salary fee. So, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs during my predecessor as well as during my term of office does not conceal any corruption... in a transparent and in accordance with the provisions of the applicable rules, take part and conduct the proceedings in the case of Damir Sablak. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last episode of the other day when Mr. Grmoya announced a great victory and the return of Damir Sabelak, so you have some insight into the court that we don't actually have, is just talking to work about ignoring legal procedures because the decision to which Nikola Grmoi is called at the same time accusing me of breaking the law is not a power of law, is not a power.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122516	We don't have time for that kind of thing. No, no, no, stay because you have replicas. Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122517	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister. Two months ago, the Austrian authorities abolished the Croatian historical coat of arms which they somehow defiled because they linked it to the totalitarian regime, and it had absolutely nothing to do with it. We have responded to this in front of the Croatian sovereigns, we have sought some kind of, some reaction from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, it came later that day and came in, but within, in the last 2 months, what have you done about destroying Croatian national identity in our neighbouring country with which we should have had good relations, what has happened and what has been your full, how much have I realized and one of your favorites of Ambassador Glancic made on this issue, or if not so far, what plans do you have to return that coat of arms to the mark of the Croatian strategists?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122518	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122519	Thank you very much. Ha, when you say favorite, so Mr. Daniel Gluncic is the original Croatian diplomat, a man born in Germany where his grandfather was also killed on the Crossroad. If someone has a sensitivity to Bleiburg, I'm sure I do. I was at Bleiburg when you weren't even born. I went really up very, very often and then, in '91. Sir, publicly, even though it wasn't that simple back then. But that whole Bleiburg thing has been going on for years. When I came to the minister's post, I gathered and.../incomprehensible/... and the Honorable Bleiburski vod who is registered as an Austrian association, I gathered the entire Croatian Institute of History, to see in fact how we can further discuss it. And the Church had their own suggestions, everyone had all sorts of suggestions. However, here the National Council of Austria has made certain decisions, certain references, where the Greens have been spoken to Schallenberg, the foreign minister. But here's the left government that is... [[Intruder: Time.]] That coat of arms, but a court report was made and that coat of arms would be returned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122520	Thank you very much. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122521	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Grlic, I'll repeat the question. From your taxaneous reading of the chronological event around Damir Sabelak and if we consider the very tone you have read, the ministers feel a certain form of anger or whatever, mostly positive there is very little. If it is true that Damir Sablak is a lawyer, if it is true that Damir Sabelak was all mentioned working under someone's address, then explain it again to me and answer me, for which reason, therefore you informally and informally called to the meeting instead of the way it should be, according to the logic previously given to the official meeting. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122522	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122523	Here you see, I'm telling you so honest as a man, so someone, we weren't born as ministers. So on July 19, 2019, I become a minister. I know my colleagues, I always act human. Of course, everyone has their own responsibilities. So to me, Damir Sabelak, I know him, I know him as a colleague, he's a dear man, I've been a humane, I've never damaged anyone in anything and I've always had an understanding for everyone, but again order and discipline had to be respected. So I wanted to do, I looked, I did an analysis of everything that was going on in those seven, eight years. So you understand? I inherited one file that was thick and during that 7, 8 years, three, four ministers changed, sir. And I want to see it collegiately and friendlyly, let's go solve this problem, I mean, for no reason at all. Because I'm telling you that this corruption as Damir Sabelak just remembered, he had his anger. When he didn't get what he was looking for, then his own one who inherited it went looking for her black under her fingernails. [[Intruder: Time.]] And he didn't find it. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122524	Mr. Sacic. What? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122525	He's been injured. 238. Otherwise, I apologize to the chairman, very rarely use this, so the tool of harming the Rules of Procedure. Minister, this man is being sent home. This man, Damir Sabelak, is being sent home. What he pointed to is what is and the obligation of any of us here. I've been doing the same thing, and so have the great majority of the people here in this House, and none of the words you've said are in favor of that. Don't invite him to an official interview. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122526	Mr. Kujundzic, unfortunately time. Yeah, you use it rarely, but That, but I have to give you a warning, you didn't even mention the article. [[Intruder: I withdraw the breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] That's all it would be, but it was a replica anyway. Mr. Sacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122527	Your Honor. I will repeat what I said, you have already heard when Mr. Plenkovic was there, and it is also very important for the Croatian public and please tell me if he is, yes, if you haven't, come on. It is the victim of the Croatian people, and it is the most vulnerable in the large Serb aggression in the area of the Republic of Serbia and the Army of BiH where more than 1000 children per status, when their parents were killed, 1 or 2 or so, and they have fled to the territory of Croatia in the 1990s, there live, there are years of age, unfortunately Croatia cannot solve these status rights as they have civil war victims in Croatia under this system. If and when you will do something with Sarajevo or Banja Luka, they must be given by the state of BiH elemental humanitarian rights which [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They have the right to all God's and civilian laws. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122528	Thank you. Mr. Secretary's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122529	Okay. Mr. Sacic, absolutely, I agree with you that there is this problem, but I think that we should look for it in the relevant resolutions and the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and the Ministry of Defence, these are all responsible ministers and I don't know if you may have requested some kind of conversation, we can sit together and see, of course, that it is in our interest to have absolutely one satisfaction of those people who are actually suffering one tragedy and one accident. We always follow and always remember these sad anniversarys, here on July 25th a great crime was committed at Brisevo, so at Prijedor, at Prijedor I think it's one of these I think Srebrenica you know doesn't have to mean that, which is the number, every crime is a crime and every crime should be convicted. Of course and responsible for crimes should be processed, but you can see how unfinished these processes are, which require will, political will, cooperation, dialogue and how important it is I actually get involved in all of that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that's why we have all this So long, it's been going on for a long time, of course. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122530	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122531	Thank you very much. Ministers, you assured the Croat people in BiH that they will have a top-level representative in Bosnia by this election. You've given in to your Tomislavgrad, to me, Livno, these are my neighbors. What do you say now when you get there, you swindled, swindled people? You look these people in the eyes and you say we didn't do it? At least we apologize, we forgot you. Even in Germany, a euro-parliamentary like his last name, I don't know who runs Izetbegovic's policy, doing what he did to you as a diplomat who was in Germany and is now a minister. So when you will apologize and apologize to the people from where you came from, because I especially sympathise this people because of course we are neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122532	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122533	Mr. Bull, I know from experience that you never promise anything if you have a clear perspective in front of you. It's a thorny road to the stars. Per aspera ad astra. I knew how complex it was, if it hadn't worked out in 20 years, of course I wasn't a pessimist, but I wasn't some optimist and I wasn't a ruler and I didn't have a monopoly, you know, to settle election law. You're telling me, I don't know someone was saying that I was seeing, Mr. Pavlovich I have nothing against this debate here, etc., but what you know well what followed was actually, which was the introduction when you difamy, when you, when you, when announced in a very low way this someone who might not have grown up etc. All of it, but I was in Germany. What I need may be worse to save CDU, CSU, so there's been a change, there's been an election, there's been a new government that's also forming a certain change. But today we've been talking a lot. Yeah. [[Thank you, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122534	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122535	So, Your Honor, I will now explain to you how you cover up fraud in Australia and the United States. You hide travel orders from Australia, you participate in a false display of the ambassador's wife as alleged flying consulates, you allow Inspector Christmas to continue to cover up fraud, you invite Sabek to an informal meeting and you participate in his anti-zacony distance from the service, twice the Administrative Court has annulled your decision and your predecessors. And the decision to return Damir Sabelak to work is a powerful one, and soon you will hang out at a formal meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122536	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122537	No problem, Mr. Grmoy, but again I think what you're forgetting here is you're discovering that you actually have certain instruments of this, that you have certain knowledge, so you have direct contact with the court, with the judge, with the Official Court. We're doing a distinction here so they're being rejected, there's no corruption, they're being rejected, I want the public to hear it. You deceive the public, Mr. Grmoy. I'm not going to use such a dictionary as you do, but I can see that you've been focusing on this mandate just having one fail-safe and that's all. You should use a lot of things at your disposal here, but you don't use it, you have a fail, you cheat if no one knew anything else people would still believe you in the way you say it. Therefore, here is Mr. Sablek in court for a serious violation of his duty, and there is no party to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but the Official Court and the Administrative Court. The clause is proof of power and is placed on a verdict that has become a power of power She didn't, and you made a play. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And the theater because you sent Mr. Sabelak [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] who made a gift of mar in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] It's not nice, it's not nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122538	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavliček, here you are. [[Aggression: Thunderbolt, circus.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122539	Dear Ministers, here you have not answered the question I asked in my presentation, which is why you have not responded to the statements of Hidajet Bištevic which he gave ahead of the elections for the National Assembly in the Republic of Serbia and with which he has, publicly, and with whom he has indeed done further damage to the Croatian community than you have subsequently tried to save the matter by calling everyone to vote for Zigmanov. What kind of foreign policy is unequal? So your ambassador who makes your bills leads a different policy than your ministry. Why didn't you publicly fence yourself? Did you call him, did you reprimand him? The Croatian public knows nothing about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122540	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122541	Like this, Mr. Pavlich, you have to be sure everything's under control. The relationship between the ambassador and the minister is our internal matter. I'm the head of diplomacy. If something is in danger, it is certainly not threatened, I cover everything, when it comes to Vojvodina and Serbia, I have very good relations and contacts and with Clear Vojnic, who is the president of the Croatian National Council. It's a roof association. And with Mr. Tomislav Zigmanov, who I heard about your information yesterday, and also today because Mr. Zigmanov informed me about the continuation of the talks, etc., and his possible future acquisition in the government. Thus, with Mr. Zigmanov as president of the Democratic Union of Vojvodina Croats, who is a prominent official and representative of Croats, we have an extremely good communication. Therefore, this should not be taken, Mr. Biscevic is on the other hand an experienced diplomat, he has his duties You don't need to be afraid. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122542	The honourable representative Pavliček has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122543	Injured Rules of Procedure 238, the minister did not answer the MP's question. So he did not answer the lawyer's question why he did not respond to Ambassador Bištovic's statements, he eventually thanked him for being extremely experienced. I answered my question I didn't get.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122544	Yes, but it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I have to give you a warning, and that's a third reminder based on Article 240(2), I have to give you a warning that, second warning, I'm sorry the other one. I'm wrong to say, second warning... No, second warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Uh, the Honorable Representative Rasdic now has.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122545	Dear Minister Grlic, you said that these five points are not all the work of the Foreign Ministry and of course not. This would allow you to conclude that you are more successful at some other points. So here's what I'm curious about was the success of calling the former US Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbraith at a conference in Zagreb organised by your ministry on the 30th anniversary of Croatia's recognition. I would like to remind you that the late Professor Miroslav Tudjman dedicated the entire chapter of the book The Hague poaching to the false and tending testimony of Peter Galbraith against President Franjo Tudjman and the Croatian six. Miroslav Tudjman thus writes that I quote the Hague court, adopted Galbraith's statements that Franjo Tudjman was overrun by the borders of Banovina of Croatia. On the basis of Galbraith's testimony, the Hague court decided to quote, according to Peter Galbraith, Franjo Tudjman was forced to give up his big Croatian programme. Why did you call this person and why is he our friend now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122546	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122547	Were you, and thank you very much, were you at this conference where actually Mr. Galbraith's we have an extremely good exhibition that was welcomed, he was also at a concert. Mr. Galbraith was an ambassador at a crucial moment, of course he had his own habitable remarks perhaps, but was generally and absolutely remembered as a quality and good ambassador who later, who later certainly had after a time-out had a different view of what might have happened and happened. So I don't know why you took that part. So, that's one opinion, that's one so Mr. Tudjman wrote it, but generally it was, I talked about it later because I heard that you wrote or spoke to Dr. Mat Granic who gave me actually a second, second opinion, and also with Zdravko Busic so you should see other participants of that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122548	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rasdic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122549	238, insult and demeaning of MPs. Why the demeanor? Because we know very well, and we read not only Prof. Tudjman rather than what Ambassador Miomir Zuzul said, which is that Galbraith tried to block Operation Storm the day before it began by agreeing that America was opposed to Storm. About that, he later confessed to Galbraith himself. Which would have been Croatia if Tudjman had agreed to, he fell for that Galbraith trick. So much for Tudjman's tradition at HDZ. If the late president had lived another year, you'd have put him in The Hague. You'd put him in The Hague. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122550	Thank you, dear colleague Rasudiæ, it was a replica, you are aware and you get another warning. The Honorable Representative Troscott has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122551	Here are the respected ministers I would also like to expand the work of the foreign ministry in order not only to be in BiH and Serbia's position, I would move this inquiry a little bit to Latin America. They listen to us Croats now and down this exhibition and they told me to ask you when you are so successful in your work that in Latin America there is only one official Croatian language professor who is currently stationed in Argentina and who should probably learn 400,000 Croatians living downstairs and Croatian. Chile has no Croatian language professor, Peru has no Croatian language professor, so tell me in which way if language is not a strategy we will maintain our relationship with the diaspora. The second question, when you are so successful why Croats living in northern Argentina in Asuncion and Montevide during parliamentary elections or general elections, must make you, that Asuncion is in Paraguay Mrs Busic that, they must travel 2,000 and I do not expect this kind of incursion from you otherwise, have to travel 2,000 km to vote for their own political option. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122552	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122553	Thank you very much, Mr. Troscott. That's very good questions. When Latin America, I was usually planning to go and visit these several countries together when there was a festival of this game organised in Paraguay, Zdravka Busic, Zvonko Milas, of course the Croats in Latin America and everywhere are very important. As far as the Croatian language teacher is concerned, we really need to see it with the Ministry of Science, I don't have all that information, but you said twice that I said I was successful. I didn't say I was successful. It is estimated by people on the ground, etc., I am here to you from that side after indeed someone can work hard of course what Mr. Pavliček says has no results, but I believe in the results of my own. And, ha has to travel because that's how this one is the former prime minister who has now appointed that they can only vote in the centres [[Intruder: Thank you.]] diplomaticly positive representations. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122554	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, from the way it was spoken here about Tomislav Zigmanov, which you spoke of, which the prime minister was speaking of, in fact, that this attitude is disjunkable with the one that Ambassador Biscevic brought forth. So these are different things. I'm actually interested in what my colleague Pavlikek was saying, and I think that at any point you and Ambassador Biscevic were talking about it. So about that there are different obvious triages, the way Tomislav Zigmanov works, the general assessment of his actions in the Croatian community, so okay, maybe it wasn't a matter of sanctions, maybe it was some kind of conversation, but just so we know if, since he represents you, he represents the government, he represents us, too, and ultimately, the views are very, they're obstructive completely, so I'm just wondering if You've had communication about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122556	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122557	Of course, Mr. Glavasevic, but it's quite a regular job. Well, I talk to at least one ambassador almost every day. Where there are complaints, if there are any complaints, I spoke with Mr. Bištovic, of course, but I don't, after every conversation, don't issue any statements. For what? So, I'm responsible, this is my portfolio for foreign affairs, diplomacy, when anyone does anything, which is not good, of course, always wondering who the foreign minister is. You understand? No visa was issued somewhere or I don't know, no one picked up the phone, it's the foreign minister's fault. The first consular service, the first meeting of Croatian citizens, is estimated so the embassy can perform miracles politically, bilaterally, however, is estimated through consular service. So, don't think that I'm indifferent and that this one, I'm going over these things. Absolutely, to me, everyone has to be responsible for the work they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122558	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Mrak-Taritaš will speak first, and after that, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. First honorary representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122559	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The main problem that Minister Grlic Radman has and we all have with him is that we don't need him at all. We don't need the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs at all. We have a similar situation as we had at the time of another HDZ prime minister and the HDZ government of Ivo Sanader. The Minister of European Affairs of Croatia is Prime Minister Plenkovic, it is quite clear. It's not surprising. The entire career of Prime Minister Plenkovic led to this, and in the shadow of his attachment and commitment to European affairs, no one could do the same job, and especially not Minister Gordan Grlic Radman and quite frankly, with all the criticism I have for Prime Minister Plenkovic, the fact is that I prefer that our country's European affairs to be run by him, not Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. That's all we need. The prime minister is, of course, perfectly aware and therefore has not given himself much effort to elect a minister who will deal with European affairs. In fact, he chose a man who even if he wanted to, he wouldn't have had a chance to get involved in his business. So that part of his job called the Minister of European Affairs was immediately removed from the table. Before becoming a minister at all, the second part is the foreign minister, but unfortunately Croatia doesn't need a foreign minister, the same as we do. We don't need a minister of space program either, that's because we don't have a space program. And we don't have any money or foreign policy. And looking at Gordan Grlic Radman, it often seems to me that we are closer to the space program than something that would look like foreign policy. Do we know what our foreign policy is? Do either of you have an idea, can any of you list one element of our foreign policy that you might say we are dealing with in any systematic and recognizable way? We don't. And it is particularly difficult to answer the question do we have any foreign policy that we are doing successfully? That's where we don't have an even bigger one. Minister Grlic Radman exclusively, but only talks about the situation of Croats in BiH, and that is because, as he said in the Parliament this morning and this is his homeland and with all due respect for everyone and everything, but the foreign policy of a serious country is nobody's home club and minister who doesn't see beyond his birthplace in the neighbouring country cannot be foreign minister. And you know why that doesn't work? Because Croatia must have partners in order to be a factor on the international and even regional political scene. And our potential partners don't want to sit at the table with us. We get on their nerves, and we get on their nerves because we're only talking about BiH, and then the first question that can be asked by our co-workers, and what about Dragan Covic, and that moment, everything falls into the water. Our foreign policy has narrowed down to the position of Croats in BiH, and there is a man who is holding back any serious role of Croatia on this issue. We cannot ask that we be taken seriously about the issues that are important to us, if we support those who are participants in the political destabilisation of BiH, participants in corruption processes which are one of the key nodes that must be set aside there to move the state further and which are an obstacle on its European path. Many have been very angry with the Bundestag resolution on BiH, but it might be wise for us to consider why the strongest force of Europe and the country we have long claimed to be our ally is critical of the role that we ourselves think is our priority for foreign policy. That's because we don't have foreign policy. How about I get back to the beginning of my presentation. We don't have to think the same thing about BiH. We don't have to agree on possible solutions. But what we all agree on is that it's a policy we run there that's tragic, bad and unsuccessful, and when the entire foreign policy of one country turns into one single question and you're not dealing with anything else, and in that one single question, you're disastrously unsuccessful, then it's time for you to go away. In conclusion, it is not Minister Gordan Grlic Radman's main culprit. The main culprit is the man from the beginning of this story, Andrej Plenkovic. After six years at the head of the government, foreign policy doesn't have a bit of a v. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122560	Now will continue the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please, on behalf of the club, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122561	Dear MPs and MPs, that Croatia is lucky enough to be foreign minister? It should be Croatia's mirror because, according to its function both in Europe and in the world, we should promote our foreign policy positions, coordinate and direct their implementation. Now for the fact that no one really understands what the positions of Croatia are on foreign policy issues in relation to any country is not entirely or not at all guilty of the minister himself but the inability to reach any agreement between the president of the state and the government, or in essence the constitutional disability process of co-creation of foreign policy. Now, if Croatia had any luck at all, we would have a minister of foreign and European affairs who, if nothing else, had at least his integrity. And because of this integrity, he would not allow his boss's ego to harm the interests of the Croatian state, but rather such a minister as a professional, as head of diplomacy with a diplomatic dictionary, in diplomatic language, would tell his boss to simply put himself in constitutional frameworks. But my colleague Anka Mrak Taritas was right to conclude that such a man with the integrity of Andrej Plenkovic would never have chosen as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, and here we are again at the very beginning. Well, since we already know that the main problem is the head and we know that we cannot have a man with his own position that at least Croatia has little luck, so that there is a man at the office of the minister who, if anything else can be well articulated by what his boss wants to say, even if it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because there is no question in any prescribed process of the president of the state. But our foreign minister can't do it either because unfortunately no one understands him even when he speaks Croatian. And all in all, with everything they've said and my previous opposition colleagues, that's quite, quite enough reason for his shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122562	On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoi will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122563	When taking over the post of Foreign Minister Grlic Radman admitted in his assembly that he had seen the Faculty's Faculty degree, Joska Para, who graduated from the university in 1997. One year earlier, Paro was appointed chief of the ministry's post, which was the condition of a college diploma Paro had not yet had. Grlic Radman in 1997 did not report to state institutions persons who had previously abused the position and put Paru on the job without the prescribed conditions. Grlic Radman decided in 1997 to continue to cover up the fraud after which he became chief secretary of the ministry, so the ambassador and here he is now in the position of the minister. As a minister today, he is surprised at the officer who has reported frauds about the positioning in the state service without prescribed conditions. It is surprising that, three years ago, diplomat Sablak refused to meet informally with him to agree, as is the practice in HDZ, on which the Croatian public had the opportunity to convince the representatives of the Tušek filmed in the Zagorje terminal. For four years now, the persecution of Sabek has been carried out at the Official Court, whose members are appointed by Andrej Plenkovic. The persecution began by Pejcinovic Buric and continued by Grlic Radman. But this mounted persecution is not working. So far, the ministry and the Official Court have issued as many as 8 solutions and all 8 have been annulled in senior courts. The only result of the persecution of Sabelak diplomats is the discovery of new details and documents that further prove the cover-up of fraud. Thus, this post I was talking about proved to be the ambassador's wife, Bertosa Kusen, so a fraud was planned in 2014 with the secretary general of the ministry Cvetkovic. An e-mail was also revealed that in 2016, the chief inspector of the Christmas ministry asked certain officials to keep their mouths shut about Sabek’s first law enforcement report in Australia. Documents have also been found to prove that Minister Pejcinović Buric allowed inspector Christmas 2017 to collect and draw up documents on determining the responsibility of that same inspector, Christmas. You got it right. Sablak, an inspector of the Christmas ministry, reported to the minister for cover-up fraud, and then allowed the minister of the same inspector Christmas to select and draw up documents he provided to USKOK on her own responsibility. You're already guessing, aren't you? Inspector Christmas is a member of HDZ, and Sabelak is not. However, the most important document discovered during Sabek's persecution is the USKOK's 2018 resolution on the rejection of the criminal application submitted by Sabelak in 2017. The document is USKOK's solution, which confirms that Deputy District Attorney Dijan Pervan's rejection of criminal charges did not discuss at all the concrete information that diplomat Sablek listed in the criminal report. Diana Pervan did not consider the inspector's cover-up of fraud, nor did she consider favouring the ambassador's wife and Konstantinovic in their place of work in Australia and the United States. It is yet to be determined whether Diana Pervan's incrimination from the application was recklessly predicted because she was deceived by documents selected by the inspector Christmas or by Diana Pervan's incrimination from the application, because she was intimidated by Prime Minister Plenkovic's intervention in the Assembly. Prime Minister Plenkovic points out that the reported corruption concerns the period of Prime Minister Milanovic and Minister Pusic, which is true. However, no documents on Milanovic and Pusic's personal participation in the corruption are available. But documents are available on the personal participation of Minister Grlic Radman in the cover-up of the same corruption, and therefore Minister Grlic Radman should not only be removed, but should be answered. And since Prime Minister Plenkovic today confirmed that there is no such thing as a flying consulate, I am here to ask Minister Grlic Radman if he will replace the new inspector who knowingly lied on the Anti-Corruption Council. You'll promote her. Excellent. So you're the real example of this HDZ corruption, so that's what you're rewarding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122564	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott. He can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122565	Dear colleague Mr. Grmoya, first I have two questions for you. The first question is, what exactly are you building on these issues of cover-up if I'm not mistaken in Australia and the United States? And another question. Here I am now interested in the entire programme of foreign policy, and Grlic Radman Minister, when the allocated citizenship is analysed outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia analysts, says the largest number of citizenships given to people at addresses in Banja Luka and Belgrade. And now I'm interested, how do you comment on the fact that, for example, Serbs can get citizenship without a problem, and our Croatians in Latin America are stalled for two, three, and some and four, five years to get citizenship to come to Croatia to live?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122566	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122567	What you asked me else is, therefore, the fruit of this particular policy. Remember that there was a trade on the Law on Citizenship that should have been supported, that Pupovac should have also supported SDSS representatives, therefore the head of the HRT, that we had protested against it. And the answer to this first question is how, on which I am convinced. They cover up and hide these people here travel orders from Australia. They're taking part in a false display of the ambassador's wife as alleged flying consulates. They're allowing Inspector Christmas to continue to cover up the fraud. So they are calling on a minister who is now without Sabelak to meet informally and is illegally moving him away from the service. It's quite clear, and what do they say? Did you hear the minister? That she would advance the lady who lied on the Anti-Corruption Council and talk about some kind of flying consulate. You heard him here, all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122568	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli Thank you very much. [[Intruder: It will reward the cover-up of corruption.]] Dear Representative Totgergeli. Please, let's just stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122569	Thank you, Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoja today insists all the time that there is some category of informal and formal meeting. When a minister in one of his employees calls for a conversation, does an employee have the right to refuse not to come to talk at all? What does a formal and informal meeting mean? Perhaps you can explain this better because in 2016 you said that you insisted that Marin Vukmir go to Croatian waters. Did you then hold a formal or informal meeting before insisting on changing the Statute of Croatian Waters?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122570	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122571	So the Bridge has two affairs that you attribute to us. Public notary...... I'll answer you. Here, be parliamentary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So two affairs. A public notary and this Godfather affair that didn't happen. The man wasn't appointed. And as for informal, I'd be happy if we HDZ could be called in for affairs that didn't happen. Unfortunately, every day we testify to your affairs and arrests. Every day, he arrests someone and then Plenkovic boasts. He says, "This one that was in a brothel in Austria," he says, "is not HDZ." Happy Plenkovic, at last not one of his. A bright, bright face. So, informal and formal meetings of the minister cannot invite someone besides working time to be hidden somewhere and to agree to cover up corruption in the ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122572	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122573	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs, respected by the public. In this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, it has already become a regular practice of discussing trust issues for certain ministers. So last week... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122574	Comrade Deur, my colleague Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122575	So last week, we discussed Minister Beros, today Grlic Radman, and I think it has already become clear to all of us that such demands at the very least only further strengthen the position of the same minister and on the other hand our Club has made clear and sent a message that we believe that the Government in its entirety does not provide satisfactory answers to everything our country is facing. Because apart from looking at the very vague and confusing foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, the very policies where perhaps the most qualitative results and the most serious policy are expected in parallel to that, nor do we work properly for other sectors and resolutions. So our health system is on very weak feet, our debts are too big, waiting lists too long. Equally refurbishment is late. There is no such thing as a reconstruction. Agriculture is on the lowest branches so far. Rats and cattlemen cry for a quality approach on this issue. We continue to import 900m euros in agricultural and food products more than we export them, and the issue of agricultural land is not to mention. Low wages, small pensions, uncertain autumn, price growth, drop in living standards, low social capital levels, and general dissatisfaction of people living in Croatia and who, as a result, point to the dysfunction of the state, and of course, there is also the fact that Croatia does not meet even certain foreign policy objectives, especially if we look at the issue of changes to the electoral law in BiH that have been failed. If we look at issues of non-fulfilment of dialogue and common language on the subject of the election of ambassadors and also the issue of encouraging emigrants to return because of the data i.e. In particular, census data clearly indicate that diaspora is increasing from day to day. Because of all this, it is clear and unequivocal that our club will support the departure of Mr Grlic Radman's Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, but as during last week's debate on the replacement of Minister Beros, we would like to point out once again that we participated in the signatures on the application itself, so we did not participate in the so-called. catching media headlines by impeaching individual ministers. And given that Croatia is actually going below everything, below what I have stated here and before, and that is also below the level of the need of citizens who expect the government to solve problems and that the government is actually keeping the dignity of its country's citizens, we are thinking that the debate on the replacement of a minister who will certainly remain, and probably this will also strengthen its position won't change much. However, when we talk about the work and action of Minister Grlic Radman in his portfolio, we can first of all talk about a failed policy based on the return of love to people in Croatia. So this is what the minister and his ministry represent as measures that are being implemented towards the potential returnees, so the measure presented to our emigrants outside the Republic of Croatia measures, which I have recently asked the Minister on which it is based and on which encouraging models are actually based, so what we are actually offering these people is also here to come to Croatia and to get self-employed. So what is it that will ultimately draw them back and what are the positive trends that follow us? What are these economic standards that make us desirable? What are the economic and social standards on which both these and other measures are based? In fact, the minister's answer was in the sense that the people I'm talking about don't need any special incentive, but that he, as a minister, too, counts on a desire, that there is love, and that this is another perspective that I may find incomprehensible. Whether it's incomprehensible to me or not, I don't think it's that important, but it's still important whether such a policy is understandable and acceptable to those who, who we want to encourage to return. The attitude we heard from the minister then certainly leads to the fact that the balance of those who are leaving is growing and greater and is certainly one of the reasons why we are here today. And with this I'm going to conclude these other arguments in the debate we're not actually going to enter. So, Croats around the world, and apparently we have, there are us, there are more of you than in Croatia itself, we see it clearly from the census that is here from every year, actually showing such data. So, Croats around the world never forget that the government of the Republic of Croatia is working on your return to your homeland counting on it first and foremost on your love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122576	On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Vesna Vucilovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122577	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We don't have a minister, then respected associates, colleagues and colleagues, another request for the impeachment of the minister, I see that the minister didn't like it very much, so somehow he took it personally and emotionally. We hit on him with stones, etc., what to say then Minister Beros, three times asked for his recall, the minister soon former Maric twice, so former Minister Coric twice, if I am not mistaken in past terms, those who are there longer, there was more. He may be angry that after each one of those calls, it's a little tough for him, he doesn't like the prime minister to have the opposition change him, but somehow after a while they all go away, do they? There are few who have been held back. If there was a colleague named Bauk, maybe he'd know how to count it well, he's been here a long time, and he's getting it together quite nicely. A lot has already been said in the debates and related to these five reasons that the sovereigns cited so that I do not want to repeat myself and I will agree with those who spoke before me that when we talk about Croats outside the country and about our foreign policy, about our emigrantism and what we do, how, what we do about them coming back, what we do to invest here, then our entire foreign policy, and here in this debate is somehow coming down to BiH. And a colleague, Pavliček, said at the outset that it was some 350,000 Croats who now live. We're estimated to have $4 million in the diaspora. Who cares about these 3.5 and I don't know how many, not a little more millions of Croats? What about those in America, South America, Australia? With this newer emigration in Germany, in Ireland? Those are some questions we don't get an answer to. And colleague Mrak Taritash is, here I was listening to her exhibit sign every word, she made a very nice diagnosis and why Minister Grlic Radman is in that position where she is. And then somehow we get to grips with his statements that are often, uh, what would you call them, a little weird. BiH is a dysfunctional state, so it has not won candidate status, and Ukraine is probably functional though it is at war. From the fact that the Bundestag resolution on BiH is not Germany's position. Whose is it if it's not Germany's attitude? So when the Croatian Parliament adopts something, it is probably the same attitude as Croatia. Croatia is the most organised member of the EU. It would be nice if it were, I don't think so. But most of all, I'll look back at his two statements, one from 2020 when Russian Minister Lavrov visited us and then called him dear Sergei, read him poetry in Russian, and said he discovered his warm poetic soul. In the first month of this year, our Minister Grlic Radman visited Moscow again, and again he invited Putin to come to us. They openly discussed the situation with Ukraine, discussed new flights, the opening of a Russian cultural centre, etc., so that already on 23.3., our Minister Grlic Radman said Putin was a war criminal. He didn't call again for a visit, suddenly some sort of copernicus turn. And we've heard a lot about this quiet diplomacy, because, as you know, we haven't talked, how you know we haven't done anything, how you know this, I've talked, this one's been talking, everybody's been doing something, and this quiet diplomacy by the words is how great I realized it was, but what about this loud diplomacy. Are these statements of an experienced diplomat and are those statements that raise Croatia's rating and reputation abroad, or are those statements that Mr. Bačić must do a little bit of ironing at the time, and some others are reporting from HDZ, and they are also ironing it, and this once experienced diplomat probably shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122578	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122579	... Parliament, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, so does Croatia actually have foreign policy? [[Specially enabled.]] That's the question, what countries in the world have foreign policy at all? Probably foreign policy has only those countries in the world that have aircraft carriers and nuclear weapons, we can probably have international relations. Now the question is, who in Croatia is leading international relations? Is this led by Minister Grlic Radman or is that run by Andrej Plenkovic? I personally think it's being run by Andrej Plenkovic. As for the minister himself, the SDP Club believes he is incompetent as a minister. So, we don't go into judgments or judgments like that, we just don't care, so this is a political arena, and so it's not a choice I don't have a clue for Miss Beauty or for a higher or lower level of IQ. So, one politically incompetent for us, but there is one excuse that his boss, Andrej Plenkovic, is in charge of Croatian international relations. So we at the SDP Club resent him for two key things. I won't rank them at all which is the first one that's the second. So one of them is an important relationship to the Hungarians. So remember the gentleman, and perhaps not even a gentleman, but remember Orban and his scandalous May 2022 statements, so where he discusses a common EU embargo in which Hungary opposes, he says that countries that have seas and ports can bring oil to tankers, and the Hungarian sea has taken Croatia away. So, to that, except for some three sentences, no letters, no figures, no sentences, nothing. And remember that Mr. Foreign Minister sang with Hungarians, Croats and Hungarians two of the brothers at the border two years ago, I guess. And of course that's the problem of geopolitical, geostrategic Republic, which is actually our neighbouring state of BiH because we think BiH must have a shortcut, a road to the EU. Also, they must protect the rights of whether you are 350 or 500 thousand, so EU citizens who have a Croatian passport, so these are Croats in the BiH that are definitely, definitely to say so to the citizens of the second order. And now I'm not wasting my time because most colleagues and colleagues have articulated their views on why they think Mr. Radman is not a good foreign minister or international relations, as I would say, so I'm not repeating myself. So, I'm just going to say one last final thing, so we think he's an absolutely incompetent foreign minister, and that's why we supported an initiative signed on 2-3 irrelevantly, so the sovereigns who were as far as I know are initiators of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122580	Now, again on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122581	Since corruption at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has been all said and the minister himself has admitted that those who conceal corruption will be rewarded instead of being held accountable for it, it no longer makes sense to talk about it, but it makes sense to talk about the protection of the rights of Croats in Serbia. According to the 2004 agreement, Serbia and Croatia have committed that national minorities of one country must be represented in another country at national level. Croatia has made a commitment. The law regulated that a representative of the Serb national minority must sit in the assembly, not only one representative but even 3 representatives regardless of how many Serbs go to the polls. Moreover, only the Serb national minority is allowed to vote for 3 candidates in Croatia, which is artificially held in power by the political structure of the same minority currently dependent on Plenkovic's majority in the Parliament. In return, Plenkovic's authority has made the same structure possible for privileged business from the state. And now we see some accusations of BUSKOK in that sense. But we return to Serbia, which does not comply with the international legal framework established by the 2004 Agreement with Croatia, according to the Croatian national minority. Until 2016, Serbia was obliged only to Croatia, and since 2016 it has become Serbia's commitment to the European Union. In the accession negotiations with the EU 2016, Serbia committed itself to implementing its legal framework for the rights of national minorities, including the legal framework set out in the 2004 Agreement with Croatia. In 2016, the Croatian Government adopted a Decision establishing an inter-resorial committee to monitor the implementation of the transitional criteria in negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on Serbia's accession to the European Union. One of the established tasks of the Croatian Commission is to monitor the establishment of a legislative framework for the protection of minority rights in Serbia, and the commission is responsible for proposing decisions to carry out that obligation by Serbia. According to the Commission’s 2016 decision, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in The commission is chaired by a foreign minister who is obliged to convene at least 4 meetings of the Committee annually. The Commission started working in 2016. That year it held two sessions. But then Prime Minister Plenkovic took over after which foreign ministers did not call for a single session. Grlic Radman has been in violation of the government's decision for three years because he has not called for a single session of the Commission that is not only responsible for monitoring the execution of Serbia's obligation, but is responsible for allowing the representation of the Croatian national minority in the Assembly, to co-operate in the detection of the fate of missing persons, to compensate the victims of aggression on Croatia and to abolish judicial jurisdiction for acts committed outside Serbia's territory. There's a question. Why do all of Plenkovic's ministers violate the government's decision and do not call a session of the Committee on the Control of Obligations of Serbia towards the European Union in areas of vital Croatian interest? I do not see any logical answer to this question, but I see the vital dependence on the maintenance of Plenkovic in power with the votes of 3 Serbian national minority representatives whose connection with the authorities in Serbia was demonstrated by Serbian President Vukic 2018 when he directed Pupovac, you do not have to vote for every law, Milorad. Vukić deliberately does not fulfil the obligation to protect the rights of Croats because he does not pass the Electoral Law on the representation of Croats. Grlic Radman deliberately does not fulfil the obligation to protect the rights of Croats because he does not convene meetings of the Committee. However, the Parliament cannot replace Vukic, but it can replace Grlic Radman. All MPs who vote to maintain Grlic in the ministerial position personally assume responsibility for Grlic's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122582	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative, Gary Capelli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122583	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague, colleague of mine. Since taking office as Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, we have been following a whole series of activities that the Ministry of the Head of the Grlic Radman is doing quality and dedicatedly in this government, the Government that has shown resilience and driving power and that it is known and able to deal with global challenges from the pandemic of the virus to a series of security circumstances, crises and challenges of today. In the international action of Croatia, the Schengen, the euro area, the opening of negotiations with the OECD thanks to Croatia's strong foreign policy and diplomacy headed by Minister and Government Andrej Plenkovic. With regard to the region of Southeast Europe, the Croatian foreign policy of this government is today the leader and engine of European integration. A series of support is provided to the Croatian community in Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo, and on Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is continuously committed to protecting the equality of Croats and all its citizens, and to helping through development cooperation and development projects contributes to the democratisation, stabilisation and necessary reforms in BiH. It has been mentioned many times today that there were no reactions related to the ongoing resolution, no resolution at all to clear it up once. The resolution was in that segment of the vote of 50 German soldiers to go to BiH. The second part that was about 25, 30 minutes I followed was, was not voted as ALTEA voted i.e. sending German soldiers to BiH, already through factions that were in parliament. With CDU and CSU responding and looking for corrections in that document if we can call it the one that was sent. Bosnia and Herzegovina's friendships deserve all the attention and support we all agree on. Croatia understands best the danger of potential threats to stability and security in Southeast Europe, especially in the light of the Russian Federation's aggression on Ukraine as well as the direct neighbourhood of the European Union. With our own experience in the 1990s, at the moment of the state's creation, we came to realize the importance of foreign political support and understanding of friendly states. I therefore welcome every engagement of our allies in the European Union and NATO, which is aimed at the stability, security and functionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as its solid and irrevocable path towards the European Union. I would like to remind you that just the German representative in the European Parliament Doris Pack 2014 as rapporteur for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Parliament has significantly strengthened the importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration by a report in which the European Parliament's always participated, and today's Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, with a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, also warning of the danger of separatism, but also of unitarism for the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the European Parliament confirmed by adopting Resolution 6 February 2014. As in others, in all conjecture resolutions on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, brought by the European Parliament in its 8th term. And recently in its European Union document, the Strategic Compass on the same trail points to the importance of supporting Bosnia and Herzegovina in the integrity of territorial integrity, sovereignty and unity based on the principles of equality and non-discrimination of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and three constituent peoples. The Dayton-Paris Agreement, as well as the great efforts of the international community and all co-signature states, and so did the Republic of Croatia in times of war, created Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that Croatia is the only Member State of the European Union bordering a thousand kilometres of the common border with Bosnia and Herzegovina and shares with it numerous historical, economic, geographical and cultural links with special care all proposals and discussions on Bosnia and Herzegovina are being conducted at the level of the European Union and its Member States. That is why our support, support for the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina in building security at these challenging times in its European path and approaching NATO and strengthening the rule of law as well as the security of the Southeast Europe region is of the utmost importance. The Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, which was witnessed by the then Chancellor Helmut Kohl in his 95th presence, is a document that rests on the principle of equality between three constituent peoples and all other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, Croatia, as a guarantee of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, cannot remain indifferent to the actions which undermine the basis of the particulars of the agreement. That applies to Mr Ahmetovic. This is exactly what he wants to undermine the basics of the agreement. This specifically refers to those political forces that advocate and implement the policies of separatism and unitarism and destabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign state constitutionally formed by two entities and three equal constituent peoples. I am convinced that you are aware of the fact that in 2018 the Croatian Parliament adopted a Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its European path with the aim of empowering Bosnia and Herzegovina and all necessary reforms key to the functioning of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution, democratisation, the change of the electoral system as well as the implementation of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that it is crucial to establish a functional and non-discriminatory electoral process that would ensure the right for Croats to choose their legitimate political representatives in the way that they are elected by the two constituent nations and ensure the right and all other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that, regardless of nationality, they can be elected at all national levels. The Brussels Agreement of 12 June and the conclusions of the European Council of 23 June 22 discuss the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain candidate status for membership in the European Union. Croatia welcomes them and shares the satisfaction that they enjoy the strong support of our German friends. Therefore, Mr Roth, President of the Vanjskopolitical Committee of the German Bundestag, I am telling you this way that I am concerned about the proposal for a resolution of the FDP and the Greens under the heading "I support Bosnia and Herzegovina on the road to a better future which I believe, despite my good intentions in helping Bosnia and Herzegovina, contains certain irregularities as well as an unworthyly characterised role Croatia would like to discuss with you personally. The proposal and resolution of one part of the military, and the other, which is as a document, can be used for different interpretations by various ethnicists, which could lead to further slowing down of Bosnia and Herzegovina's euro integration, but also seriously favour undermining the rule of law. I am afraid that such a document could become a kind of tool in the hands of those who do not want to see Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Union, and it also opens up a number of politically sensitive issues crucial to the European perspective and future of Bosnia and Herzegovina." I read this letter that went to Bundestag 7 days before the debate in Bundestag in agreement with 12 members of the Committee on Foreign Policy which they did and the opposition and not just ruling so that I will not, I do not have time to continue speaking details about which I today and my colleagues and I have spoken about the support of Minister Radman, his impact, the work and everything that was mentioned. So, we are unique about the fact that the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina is crucial at this point for security reasons, and we have explained very clearly to Bundestaga what we mean by the attempt that he tried to realise through Mr Ahmetovic who is probably still seeing civil Bosnia as his parents may have seen many years ago, which may have been good at that time. The best ones who lived there know it best. But today with this approach they are completely wrong and the only guarantee of peace from the Dayton Agreement to date is the Dayton Agreement which gave peace and the possibility of evenness at all, so three peoples. So that's thinking, that's what we're up to. I say, once again, not only isn't the HDZ signature, but there's the signature of 12 parliamentary deputies, so both. And I would just say that in the end, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the current work of the foreign minister and will vote for his support to continue to act on this duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122584	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Marko Milanovic Litre will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122585	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here I wasn't planning on talking about the resolution, but since you're the principles of this subject one more time, we can continue in it, on it. And above all, all praise for the letter. As far as I'm aware, my colleagues from Bundestag told me that Dragan Covic also sent letters similar. And okay, that's no problem. But you did it as a parliamentary representative as part of the majority along with opposition deputies and that's quite legitimate. But you're not here today on the wallpaper, you're not here today to debate. The topic is the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the head of diplomacy, Minister Grlic Radman, who has not done much about this. Speaking of this Resolution, which in every way you try to discredit as irrelevant, why did you send the letter? Why did Dragan Covic intervene with his colleagues in Bundestag? Obviously, this carries some weight because the ruling majority voted there 190 CDU MPs who were there or since 190, 160 who were there all voted in favour. They're your coalition partners. It's your sister's party. This is the Pucana party you are working with in the European Parliament. With other Croatian sovereigns and European conservatives and reformists, the group to which we belong has prevented such a single resolution, i.e. the amendment of the left, which tried under the same excuse... to push into the European Parliament where on the committee on this report, or about that directive, everyone voted against and that is how we fight for the Croats in BiH. Addis Ahmetovic means Bosnjak, a representative of the German SPD in Bundestag, one of the main authors and the nadadic resolution under the premise of the civil political concept pushes Bosniak unitarism and we can agree there. I guess, here I heard before the end of your exposure I agree with you. But the problem is that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has done nothing about it. The question is, what was Minister Grlic Radman doing, where was his influence as ambassador to Germany in the last three years if I wasn't wrong before he came to the ministerial post? These are all questions that are legitimate for today's debate. But we go back to that, that resolution. The concept that Addis Ahmetovic pushed is the concept of former Yugoslavia where there is one people, it is Bosniak, where there is one language, where there is one culture in which there cannot be Croats or Serbs. That's what they want. They do not want to return the settings to the Croats who were guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement. They're comfortable with this situation, so they haven't been able to negotiate. That's why the Electoral Law couldn't be solved because they're pressing. But they're pushing it smart. Because here I will now read to you two years ago that Bakir Izetbegovic who is not mentioned in that Resolution. Only Covic and Dodik were mentioned. That's right, thank you. So two years ago Bakir Izetbegovic said: "Croatians have too many rights and if they continue this way for two years in 2022, the probossance forces will not have what they have today. We'll break the chains of parity. The Croats can't have the same as the rest of us who have four times as many. If necessary, we have friends from Europe and Islamic countries. God forbid we will also win the military if we have to." These are messages from Bosniak politicians coming daily. They're no exception. They are a rule, a rule discredited by the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But not now if I were here on the side of the ruling, the Croatian authorities have so far done nothing about it. You look at the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how many of us there are today is less than 15%, about 15%. Correct me if I'm wrong. The Serbs are about 30%, and the Bosniak is more than 50%. And whose policies led to the fact that the Croats are no longer there? Whose foreign policy has led to us becoming a minority, a minority manipulated by whose rights are being violated daily in Bosnia and Herzegovina? No one can be guilty except for the Croatian authorities so far. Whether HDZ is 4 years old or SDP 4 years old, no government has been able to do so so far. More Josip Juratovic of the SPD made German than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122586	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122587	In part, I can agree on some things. But we can't, as a first deal was to react to the Bundestag which is logical to react to the parliamentary side of what we did and get a consensus really in a certain way about that letter which is a very big deal. And we need to say one thing about Mr Ahmetovic where I am then calling in some way and that opposition part where he was. He visited the Croatian Parliament recently before the proposal he handed over to the Bundestag, so the Croatian Parliament which is nonsensus. Usually, the opposition and the ruling or vice versa are visited. However, he chose only to visit the opposition and this left, and the left one knew with the suggestion of what it would go like, but there was no reaction long before this proposal went to Bundestag. So I wonder what we have done here in Parliament not only by ruling but also by this other side?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122588	Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122589	Yes, I agree, of course it's logical that in front of the Parliament we send a letter to Bundestag. But the question is, why did this resolution come on the agenda in the first place? This is where we see the lack of foreign policy strategy. It wasn't supposed to be a subject in Bundestag at all, that's how it solves it. Don't put out the fire when it starts, but you do everything you can to keep that fire from happening and that's what we need to agree on that we need an external policy strategy. We cannot have foreign policy that is set in Brussels. Here's a colleague of your Prince's if I'm not mistaken, is that how he was recently at a conference or a round table on the stands? Thank you for having responded. We had delegations from... about which we explained the problems of the Croats in BiH. The biggest delegation of Europarliamentarians was in Mostar. It didn't go to Sarajevo. I don't know who that is, has the ruling majority ever done that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122590	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Bojan Glavasevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. You were the president. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing whether or not we trust Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. The debate so far was I would say about everything except the minister, not everything ok, but it was mostly about some other topics, about Tomislav Zigmanov, about a lot of things, and at least about what would be some measure of why we don't really trust him. As has already been said today, foreign and European policies in this country have been co-created in several places. The main two hills are actually. This is where we are, but mostly on the other side of this square and one part in the Croatian Parliament on boards, but also on that other hill on Pantovčak. Among the parliaments, the Banski dvora and Pantovac there is somewhere Zrinjevac, the unfortunate and government minister led by Andrej Plenkovic, who is in fact the minister of foreign and European affairs of the Republic of Croatia to be completely honest. I think for one Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Grlic Radman, to be completely honest with each other and not have too much space outside of the administrative part of the job that the Foreign Ministry is dealing with. Here we mentioned a few topics that I think are, that have a measure in that context. We mentioned the issue of talks with Ambassador Bištevic, who I really think is a very problematic situation in which the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, expressed his view of a representative of the Croatian minority in Serbia, especially in a situation where the Croatian minority in Serbia, which is hampered by the diametric attitudes that this man about Tomislav Žigmanov takes in not only the Government of the Republic, but also this assembly at the end of the day. We've had several meetings with Mr. Zigman and definitely the ambassador's position is publicly communicated, disjunked with what we've communicated from several other places. That's problematic. And the issue of our diplomatic services, we didn't talk much about it here, but I think it's a very, very problematic area. In general, how our diplomatic representations of dear colleagues and colleagues work here are not much spoken of, but it is one of the key problems in our foreign policy. Our diplomatic service is working under extremely difficult conditions and I think there must be significant changes in some perspective. Minister Grlic Radman was definitely not the one to bring about these changes. I would question the question without getting very much into the sphere of personal because I really want to speak here son of ira et studio, I would ask perhaps a more philosophical question about how much someone who is actually a career diplomat is a good choice for, for the minister because the minister is, and the foreign minister is also definitely a political person. The diplomat, a career diplomat, is used to communicating with political positions that come from the government. And Minister Grlic Radman is a career diplomat, so his personal to say that I think she's questionable, and that was seen in several examples. And there comes his character to some extent, he seems to me, I want to interpret it as a rather sentimental expression that has come to terms in the not-know-to-know reciting of poetry with Sergei Lavrov or in enthusiasm at a meeting with Viktor Orban, with a very sentimental statement about how this is about our common history, ignoring the fact that we and Hungary have actually had a tremendously problematic relationship throughout our history, a terrible problem of a Rijeka cloth even before. So, it is not so, that his sentimentality in several situations was an obstacle that, as a political representative, as a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia would react in a way that would actually be adequate and appropriate to the situation where we and the Hungarians have an open energy issue that is particularly important in these circumstances, and in this sense, it seems to me that Minister Grlic Radman has failed to be a good minister. It's said here already, colleague Dark Tarritash said we don't actually have foreign policy. I will say that it is very difficult to have foreign policy in a situation where the prime minister and president of the state cannot agree on the appointment of heads of diplomatic missions either. It's an impossible mission. And it's very difficult then to have some kind of foreign policy if you can't actually agree on it. And in those things where the government had foreign policy or neighbourhood policy, above all, it was a focus on BiH. A huge amount of energy has gone to that, and in fact, success, one that would have been a success from the position of this government and this minister is missing. And then we find ourselves in a situation where the Bundestag delivers a resolution that is again disjunctive with the situation in BiH that this government has. I agree with that, with this vision of this government, my colleagues and colleagues and I have talked about it many times from this club. With what was written in that declaration, I can largely agree in the assessment, I think that nationalism and the playing of political representatives of Croats in BiH, and especially those in the HDZ order with separatism that led to major problems, and I think it was a wrong tactics, should not give a chance, a completely different position should be taken and Croats in BiH would live better today, but this is not a topic today. What I need before in this time that I have left what I want to point out as problematic in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is currently a relationship to development aid, so we have talked about it many times in the budget here. The way development aid is recorded, in which statistics are conducted, we find it wrong because many things that are recorded as development aid should not actually be recorded in that way, although it is allowed by the rules, but it is not the development aid of a colleague and colleagues. Of course we need to help the hospital in Mostar, no one said we shouldn't, but then we have to book it as something else, it's not development aid. That's why, yes, one more thing about it. Focus was mostly on the multilateral, and the bilateral was lagging behind, and bilaterally it was a soft powder, bilaterally what led us to be, say, a leader in the region, which is one of the declared goals. Bilateral assistance and development cooperation are, are the main tools of our country to create influence in our neighborhood. And what I don't see is that Croatia has an alternative to the Serbian world, if colleagues and colleagues and we have a serious problem here because we don't offer an alternative to one doctrine that is very well articulated from their perspective, which has worked for years, which has been well in line with their allies, but we don't have an alternative to Macedonia, according to Montenegro, towards BiH at the end, because our focus on something else is what we can offer as here you don't have to in the Serbian world, it doesn't matter what fellows and colleagues from Macedonia share the same faith and share the same letter and maybe you understand a little better and understand with them, but you don't have to go to the Serbian council of colleagues from Kosovo and Albania, you don't have to go to the Serbian world because Croatia offers you something that's much better, we don't have an articulated and we won't be the leader in the region until we figure out, but the question is at the end of theday , I would sayit , and I would say it't have to the sin of the minister't be the minister't be the minister't go to the way of his country and thecountry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122592	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122593	Dear Vice President HS, I would like to really congratulate my colleague Glavasevic this way for saying a very interesting thesis, which perhaps man does not expect someone to say from the left spectrum, which is precisely that Croatia has no alternative to this so-called. The Serbian world. Now let's get back to the past. What is the problem with us Croats, and in particular the problem comes the most from our diplomacy, not only in this mandate but also in various previous mandates. 45 years old. Those common states have managed to impose a less valuable complex, they've managed to impose guilt on us so-called. Genocidal people, to have the need to apologize to someone all the time, to worship someone for some of the sins of our people's past. I don't want to talk here right now and make historical speeches, but in '41. Europe was divided, the good part of Europe was on the side of allies, and the good part on the side of the axle forces. So in one conversation with a colleague from Hungary, the mayor of one city, in the evening we came to this topic of World War II, and so we said Hungarians were officially on the side of the axis force in that period of '41-'45, so I say to him, so it's good if you have a need or if you apologize when an envoy of the State Department comes to you, if you apologize to any of the neighbours, I see by him that he doesn't understand my question at all, so I repeat it again, and he says what you would apologize for something that was before 80 years ago, so he says whether the French apologize for Napoleon, if the Italians apologize for Musolini, if the Russians apologize for Stalin or whether they will ever apologize for what happened to me today for Putin, but the problem of the Croatian people is in that. A good part of us and our faith teaches our son forgive me, so it will be rewarded in that world, but unfortunately our diplomacy has taken over this narrative, so that I will not be rude now, and of the servant diplomacy where we need to worship constantly, and there is our biggest problem, and then it is not rewarded in the end. So the representatives of Serbian diplomacy are far more aggressive in their performances, clearly and loudly speaking and trying to change history, so imagine that the Croats have created a genocide against Bosniaks in Srebrenica, never, but the Croatian people could never wash it. The Serbs managed to level the sacrifice and the aggressors in all respects of both the Homeland War and the war in BiH, and to congratulate them on their diplomacy, there they are truly supreme. Their diplomacy goes much longer than ours, but we have this problem, we have this problem we have to admit to ourselves that our diplomacy has taken over this narrative of worship, exclusion and listening, before it was Budapest, Vienna, Belgrade today Brussels. And there's our problem. We've never hit a table in the last 20 years and said enough is enough for us to go through this, so let the whole world turn around. So what's it gonna be? What will isolate us, throw us out of the EU? So as many individuals don't know about Orban, he's tactile and best dancing, and he'll achieve all of Hungary's strategic goals in every way. And you think he'll get out of the EU? So the EU asks that it does not come out because another exit of a country means the end of the EU. And that Orban knows very well and nothing less he draws European funds from us, but his citizens live much better and pay 9 kuna fuel. And that's a fact. And there's our problem. We don't have the right, true sovereign diplomacy that will say now is enough, let's just say that for the Croats in BiH doesn't go like this anymore, let's change everything, let's talk about the third entity. No Croatian official should say that because he is afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122594	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Nevenko Barbaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122595	Dear President, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the course of the debate leads me to begin this brief presentation again with one questionnaire. How have we been brought into this situation even though the winners of the Homeland War, with so many victims, have made a significant contribution to the creation of the Republic of Croatia and an immeasurable contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia? We have repeatedly tried to clarify from this pay phone the essence of the signed peace agreements from the Washington, the Danton, the Parisian and all sorts of processes that took place 20 years to the failures of the non-Muslim, Sarajevo, Brussels negotiations and the decision to still go out in these unconstitutional and illegal elections. Aware of the complicated situation in BiH today, however, a lot of things are being said here, so I must ask myself whether the aim of this debate was to replace Minister Grlic Radman or other motives. If we are talking about the foreign minister's responsibility, then one of his major sins has fallen short of negotiations on amending electoral legislation in BiH. So there are 16 official visits to BiH, as far as we know and how much we follow official meetings with all possible European administration, the US administration and the Ina have always been one of the topics of BiH. The fact remains that we have not reached the final goal of amending the electoral legislation, however, it must also be acknowledged that the minister was not uninterested. Someone who went to the polls for 5 cycles is aware that certain positions will be lost for the sake of numbers, when you object justly then sanctioned, and often the official, official Zagreb, official Croatian policy was against us. So, we are pleased that with the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have managed significantly to preserve the Croatian question of life even strengthen our position. Now not to mention, so there have been a lot of verbal manipulations here today, whether it's more important, whatever's called from Bundestag or it's a strategic compass or some other document, whether it's a more important statement from the American ambassadors or a third-rate official in the Council of Europe or something like that, I'd leave it for some other time and for some other analysis, and let our viewers and listeners evaluate it. Was negotiations too much to ask? By no means does the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia... followed the conclusion of the Croatian National Assembly and a defined platform for negotiations, it was based on the Dayton Peace Agreement in full, in line with the Venice Commission, with the European Court of Human Rights verdicts and courts in the BiH court itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Underneath it, the Croats can't and won't go. Here for several months, access to negotiations is also mentioned, or as the strategy is said, so stronger rhetoric, conflict, conflict or blockades of the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO are mentioned. What would I ask myself is such a policy brought by the Republic of Croatia? Certainly challenging entry into Schengen and the euro area, slower inflow of European funds, damaged credibility of Croatian foreign policy, and during these times of all crises from Covid, from all the way to this energy and inflation that would be said by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? What good would the Croats of BiH benefit from? Would that little understanding we have from most European countries, but the US administration would lose in that case. Doesn't all the documents in the Croatian strategic documents state that BiH is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia whether it's a geopolitical, security or economic aspect. So, the negotiations and the agreement of the three nations with the mediation... The middleman has no alternative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is good that most political actors in the Republic of Croatia support the legitimate first Croats, to understand our situation. It is in no way good to become an issue of opposition within the Republic of Croatia. Think of the older 2000s of intense demeaning, underestimation, jokes, labels that resulted in the distance from the Croats of the BIH whose consequences we still feel today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122596	Two replicas, the esteemed representative of Saturday first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122597	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Barbaric, you are coming, so let's say from this Corps, how do you actually see this situation helping all of us from Croatia, and how do you view the EU strategic compass, which is actually going to be the purpose and role of this, this programme for the BiH area?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122598	Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122599	Thank you. My dear colleague, I thank you for asking. So, when it comes to any kind of help to the political or financial ones in terms of preserving and strengthening our essential institutions, health, culture, education or any other projects, it is of invaluable importance to us that the assistance of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the position of the official Croatian policy in respect of compliance with the signed agreements, signed international agreements guaranteeing us and guaranteeing full equality with the other two peoples and all other citizens of BiH, without the Republic of Croatia, we will not succeed, we will disappear. Therefore, the Croats of BiH are grateful to this government, this Prime Minister for everything it does for us. We need strong Croatia, Croatia with greater and strong international influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122600	The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122601	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Barbaric, as well as longtime mayor of Ljubusko and longtime political official and representative of BiH Croats, I believe that you are definitely relevant to say and assess that this government, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's government, is referring to the Croats in BiH compared to some previous governments from the past?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122602	Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122603	Well, look, I have already referred through replicas and through, partly through and through, and through the exposure that there has been a sub-valuable relationship, a party-colored one, mentioning the recommendations both in the Croatian public space and in this assembly what has been said, as far as it has been said, so the facts say that we have lost most of our rights in 2000-years to amendments to electoral legislation and limited amendments to the Federation Constitution where we are practically disabled in the choice of our representatives, just the opposite of what the BiH Constitutional Court later also confirmed to us as a key principle and the Dayton Peace Agreement, but also through the ruling Ljubic confirmed every nation's right to legitimate representation and on that side of the Republic of BiH has confirmed us in many ways of invaluable importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122604	He will now speak to the esteemed representative Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there's no opposition here, but you are, though, so you are the opposition, but you are also the promoters, so I'm very sorry that there really is absolutely no one, and today, and today... Yes, but they're proposing [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] , and today so much actually I would say the storm was about many things that were least concerned by the submission that actually our colleague Pavliček wanted and had, right, I do, I hope that he would eventually agree with me because we still understand each other well despite everything. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, yes, yes, yes]] But in order not to stay, I'm going to really get ready here, but I'm just gonna say it like that, round it up a little bit, and I'm going to be a little bit résumé of what we talked about here today. He's a colleague of Cappelli's, and I'm going to look back on what's most, and I can see that Mr. Proposer, you've actually put your accent on it somehow. Namely, most of the talk was about Antrag, who spent about 13 hours last Friday and 15 minutes in Bundestag. Mr. Pavlichek, I would really like you and I to go through the whole text, and that's a public document, we can go through and see exactly because if anyone, here I won't disrespect, maybe, maybe someone followed, followed the debate exactly what was said in that debate, how many people looked back at that Antrag at all, no one but the promoter and... I don't speak at Bundestag, except for the promoter. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And when we say that none of the CDU, CSU this Kurt Abrahams is, he is exactly in his exhibiting well, well listen again or read the transcript of his, his review, he said that the constitutionality of the three peoples of BiH should be respected, is that what he said. Then why is it that no one today, and I've been trying in replicas, but I can't do it all, in two minutes you can say very little. That's why I'm asking you, really, but here's who I'm going to pray for when there's no one here, and we, we know that because we've been discussing it, so I'm sorry, I'm really sorry because I'm not a contentious nature, neither am I, nor is it, so it's not us, of course, I think we should compete in our own discussions and arguments, but one is an argument, and the other is an argument and the things that don't stand, just don't stand. So what I'm trying to say is, and I really want to get out of this, that we can figure out one thing out from today's debate, which is that this Antrag, which is actually a recommendation, didn't come from the government and didn't vote individually for it, and it's not binding, and now that he's asked one respected representative a question to our minister why he didn't and that he should call the German ambassador at 5:00 today, the German ambassador, so why doesn't he call, so what do I have to do with it. He would simply answer as he did. It's not binding, the government sent it, neither does it concern him, nor did it have to, so what do you think the same thing is that, here I, I'm going to take out, I'm going to separate myself, I'm going to write something down here, and now and yes, what I'm saying is non-binding and irresponsible. Besides, it's a lot of inaccuracy, a lot, a lot of things that don't fit the truth. That's what you'll confirm in that search. You'll agree because we read it, read it together. And to come now, come this country that we now call this ambassador. So wait, what's this about? Is he responsible for what I said to the non-binding in the assembly? Well, it's not true, so please, it's been pre-remended here for hundreds, for an ent potency, for an ent potency. Please don't do what's not true, it's not true. Non-binding, non-binding and non-voting individually, individually voted only for Althea only for Althea. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122606	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We have four replicas. The first is a respected representative of Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122607	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and you've touched and today we've heard so much about this interagency, so many stories that actually, in some way, I'd dare say that you broke through last Friday in Bundestag, but somehow it seems to me that the weight of this ordinary like you told the pamphlet, and today here, it's actually given our opposition, let's call it that. In fact, it seems to me that somehow it's going to go to the right drilling media. which, who actually use this opportunity and raise actually complete this case to one height which, ultimately, as you said yourself and did not deserve. [[Intruder: Exactly.]] I'm sorry that so much talk is actually the most harmful way for all of us here, some more than just our Croats in BiH. So give it one more time, no matter what you say, you do it a little bit again, so someone will hear us, how that vote actually came about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122608	Excellent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122609	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122610	Thank you, forgive me, but you've asked an excellent question. Exactly. We forenamed it, dear Mr. Saturday, you've really asked a good question. So, this really goes to the mill, goes to the hands of those who look like in BIH, well now the Croats are practically what we've fallen on our knees all and we're kneeling now and we're raising our hands. So wait, what's this all about? So are we, are we ever gonna say, are we even normal in this situation? We didn't. That's what was voted, in Bosnia I'll understand it, and I overheard it by accident once because I read Andric, too. What's the meaning of the dwarves? It was voted in the dwarves there. The factions are here this will be understood by all those who listen to me, it was voted in the jute I think it's said so. So it didn't vote individually. And you've excellently set up to go to the mill to those who liquefy here you see what we are. those unitarians that we succeeded, and these Croats nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They didn't make it. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122611	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122612	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, Bušić, the role of diplomacy and co-operation with the states of allies and partners in today's time of geopolitical instability is more important than ever. This is also a significant contribution from Minister Grlic Radman, who, with his active role, promotes Croatia as a responsible, reliable and self-aware country. You've lived and worked in America for many years, worked at the university, and you know the American system well. We know that America has abolished visas for Croatia or for Croatian citizens, so I ask if it is the merit of Croatian diplomacy or if it has come from itself or if it has fallen from the sky? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122613	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122614	Thank you, dear colleague, that is a very relevant question. Here I was just three weeks ago in New York at the ECAP conference, and the ECAP is your conference of Croatian-American young professionals. And they praised it so much, that decision of America, so here was some two days ago at the American Embassy where they celebrated their four. July Independence Day where, in fact, this Deputy Ambassador and... and state secretaries spoke in their message to, which we saw on the video, about how important it is for Croats who want to come and the second, third, fourth generation, and how important it is for American, American people who want their business work, not I'm about visiting, but also business so it's really a success, thank you for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122615	The Honorable Representative of the District. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122616	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bušić you have been selected on the list for the 11th election unit for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and often through a conversation with you and when I became a representative and all this time you emphasize how our people live, our Croats around the world. I think you're definitely a relevant person who can answer these questions much better than the opposition that's not here. They raised the question of the minister's trust, and they're not here. So much about how much they care and how much they care about these questions. What I want to ask you, what exactly are our Croats saying outside the Republic of Croatia that you are in contact with, what is their opinion on the work of the Minister and the work of our Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122617	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122618	Thank you, thank you very much. That I often travel especially in European, at their invitation, of course I always have to at the invitation most often, but also where I see that, that there are needs. The minister is real, I mean, you shouldn't, you shouldn't defend him here, that's what they say. He's been in Montenegro so many times, he's been in, in BiH so many times, I don't even say, in Serbia, in, in each other, on each other, I'd actually say the hotspot is where there's needs. And as for the overseas countries themselves, in the overseas countries, I would really like to have some of our opposition, at least some of them who are the most critical sometimes come, so that they are just here because, yes, that they are actually camouflaged, so that they do not say that they are opposition and let them not speak to anyone so that they hear what and how these people are just talking about Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122619	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Marijan Pavliček, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122620	Yeah, and I'll give you a nice word right now. Dear colleague Bušić, here I have just read once again the document that came out on the official pages of the German Bundestag, which reads, and you know the same German as Minister Grlic Radman, and so is my smallness, entitled "Separationsbestreme in Bosnia and Herzegovina". ‘Insbesondere das politische Agieren vollkisch-nationalistcher Politiker wie Milorad Dodik, gegenwaertig Mitglied des Staatspraesdijs, und Dragan Čović, Vorsitzender der Partei HDZ BiH East Darauf Angelegt, BiH als Staat und Heimat einer vielfaeltigen bevalkerung zu zelstoren.’ Die Politik see eine Gefahr fur den Frieden and Sudosteuropa. Among other things, it still writes a very important thing: Ausserdem sollten die politischen Fuhrungens Serbiens, auch mit Blick auf das laufende EU-Beitsverfahren, und Kroatiens in aller Deutlichkeit zur Distazierung von den Volkisch-separtistischen Kraeften in BiH aufgefordert weden. In short, Croatia's service policy should be fenced from separatist aspirations, and these separatist aspirations are marked in the same document as the HDZ BiH headed by Dragon Covic, or SNSD president and BiH presidency member Milorad Dodik. This is a clear accusation in this resolution of the Republic of Croatia which is a co-signator of the Dayton Agreement and accordingly has the rights and obligations to fight for the interests of the Croatian people and according to your constitution, and you say that we have all pre-named it. But Minister Grlic Radman says this on June 7th, quotes: The proposal for a resolution on BiH does not send good messages to Bundestag, a strong influence of the Bosniak lobby is visible. Look, that's not what I said, that's what Minister Grlic Radman said and I agree with that, but I also think this resolution is a dangerous precedent. It is not binding on the German government, but of course the German government will try to act in accordance with the resolution adopted by the German parliament, but it can... but it can and it's a fact. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you're saying is that everybody voted in the jute, it was a vote, but the representatives of the CDU, CSU, also voted... HDZ party along with sending German soldiers to BiH. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to point out once again that it is very important in the whole story, we all smoke as I once said we need to blow in the same direction and it is in our best interest for all of us that the Croats in BiH stay and survive as a people and that there are no 330 thousand but that God gave them to be half a million, God gave them and their influence to be as great as possible. But we also have to admit some things that here as far as this resolution is concerned, and we knew for months that she was preparing, she was in all the media, that she was still diplomatically scheduled. It was eventually brought to the German Bundestag and stands on their official site, so it did not bring it, not underestimating any state, some state in San Marino, this was brought by SR Germany, their parliament, which is our historical view of allies, partners, we should be and we are with them in the EU. If I didn't talk about other connections and links and it's unfortunately a defeat of our diplomacy, we can now flatter ourselves that it's not and that it's non-binding, etc., that's where our diplomacy unfortunately failed and the Bosniak lobby unfortunately won, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122621	Dear representative Zdravka Busic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122622	Thank you very much. My dear and esteemed colleague Pavliček, so why are we talking again about, we're raising that to N's potential, that's, that's the text of one man who wrote this one, called Ahmetovic, so what else did you expect from him? And this is really this, this is, I called this a pamphlet and this is a pamphlet, so just call it whatever you want, please don't do it, so you see it really, at the mill of this, so don't, so you're a better man than that, so don't put it on the mill of this, this one, so the media is you, so it's amazing how the Bosniak media looks and pre-name it really, I'll say it, I'll repeat it if it takes three thousand times, pre-named, so it wouldn't accidentally get misunderstood both this and then misinterpreted. A colleague of ours, Gary Cappelli, said everything we said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122623	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you, thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122624	Thank you. No one likes, God forbid, so I would be most fortunate if this resolution had never been passed on to me and that today she was not standing on the official pages of the German Bundestag, but she stands there and no one likes it, and if someone had forenamed it a month ago, then it was Minister Grlic Radman with his statement that it was too much Bosniak influence. That's not what I said, that's what our minister and minister said knows what words he can use at a given moment, and today when the resolution is passed let's reduce it to the maximum and say that it does not reflect the official position of the German state. I agree, as I said earlier, the German government does not have to act on this, but it is very easily possible and very likely to act in accordance with the recommendations of its own parliament as it implies. And tell him this is a defeat, this is the defeat of our diplomacy as much as it hurts personally now, but it's the defeat of our diplomacy. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122625	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122626	Thank you, Vice President. I mean, I think this debate did help to make things clear, even in your presentation as it was at the beginning now, yet you say she's non-binding, is the German government doesn't have to act on it. Let us remember, for example. when it was a strategic compass, it is a basic document for European not only German but for the EU as a whole for foreign security policy. And there exactly writes the equality of three constitutive peoples in BiH and then some said, and well that's just, it doesn't matter it's some document, and then on the ent potency raises this, in that, this Bunestaga declaration, in that is the disproportionateness of what counterpart Busic warned. So this is optional, this is an important document, you're raising this to an ent potential, this is the other you've been disdaining. So there's that difference. However, as one evolution has been so far in this debate, so now you admit some things, I think it will be clear to everyone by the end of this debate that Croatian diplomacy has done the job and is seeking support from the Croatian Parliament and will get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122627	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122628	I would be pleased to see that, by the end of this debate, HDZ officials admit certain things and that diplomacy has failed in certain matters. And individuals tell me that in the hallway, they say you said it well, but here in the assembly they still don't dare say it, and that's clear, it's party discipline. But why in the whole debate, no one said it was an appointment, let's just say, in the case of Hidait Bištevic, no one mentioned it. Well, admit it, we were wrong, here's the minister I was wrong, I didn't react immediately, I called him secretly I don't know, we don't know if you did, you didn't talk, you didn't, I didn't do the job right. But there's this problem that you're asking us to correct our mistakes, you're in power, and you don't want to admit your mistakes. And the fact is ultimately the suma sumarum of the whole story, where the result is. Where the result is, that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122629	Thank you very much. The Honorable Stier has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122630	Yes, Vice President 238, in that it is imputed here that we do not recognise certain facts and reopen this issue of debate between Ambassadors and Tomislav Zigmanov, which was the answer. The answer was that the minister had left and given open support to Tomislav Zigmanov. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122631	Well, that was a replica, not this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give you a heads-up. Comrade Stier, that's a second warning, be careful. This one will now speak to the respected representative Tomislav Okroš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122632	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and MPs, the foreign and European ministry headed by Minister Grlic Radman performs all his tasks in accordance with strategic documents, political decisions, but above all in accordance with the rules. The minister, but also the entire Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, is an important international position, influence and visibility of the Republic of Croatia in the EU and the world. But I also point out that the ministry is working to strengthen other common policies. BiH Minister Grlic Radman highlighted several situations that are happening there. BiH has great importance and, with permission, I quote it, we want BiH to be functional, prosperous and stable in order to help its people after years of internal dispute and stagnation. Regular keeping in touch and meetings is an important engagement of the minister, not to mention how important the situation of Croats is to him as a constituent people in BiH. The results and concrete negotiations in Neum and Sarajevo on the demands of Croats for equality are in addition. In addition, BiH is involved in an EU strategic compass that explicitly cites the equality and non-discrimination of constituent peoples and all citizens. An additional contribution to this issue is the March 2021 initiative of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Offering BiH support for candidate status through a Croatian proposal supported by another 5 members. It is Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Hungary and Slovenia. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro on protecting the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro minority in Croatia makes it important to note that minority rights are part of Serbia's obligations, an obligation to protect minority rights. By an international agreement adopted between Serbia and Croatia, Serbia has taken responsibility to implement it. The meeting of Minister Grlic Radman and the president of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina Tomislav Žigmanov in March this year resulted in a mutual emphasis on the importance of further work on improving the status, position of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. In particular, with regard to their positive political representation at all levels of government. The problem arises in the area of the Republic of Serbia where it continues to be implemented, implementing provisions of a bilateral treaty on mutual protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia and the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, Croatia provides support, security and assistance to Croats in Serbia for an identical reason. I cite that an important segment of the previously mentioned agreement is mutual respect for minority groups which Croatia is implementing in its full part. Borders are important and have a security identification and political value, but more important than that, as states and their governments approach the topic. Unsolved border issues are specific for Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Serbia, but we also have examples across Europe. Croatia is seeking peaceful dispute resolution, but it requires peaceful negotiations on both sides. The border between Croatia and the other countries, unfortunately, has not been defined to the end. Detailed demarcation, which at sea, which on the other side of the land still needs to be solved. Borders are a temporary basis based on the 1999 Protocol on the provisional regime along the southern border towards Montenegro and the 1999 Treaty on Borders with BiH, Croatia is making efforts to address border issues. Negotiations with Serbia have stalled the pandemic, as many things the pandemic has temporarily stopped. A bilateral agreement is being offered to Slovenia, the extent of Croatia's initiative is visible, and what are the feedbacks. It is unacceptable to say that border disputes are not trying to resolve. Successful dispute resolution, the consolidation of already existing ties between states is just an example of Croatia's slowness, but is fundamentally going towards the goal of resolving disputes over its borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122633	Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122634	It is regrettable, then, that during today's debate in which we tried to get answers to some questions we could hear one minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia, one of the most important ministries saying they would reward those who lie on the Anti-Corruption Council and those who conceal corruption. Not a single answer to these questions that we have opened here we have not received, so we have received an insult from the opposition, we have received, I don't know, messages from colleagues from deura to fellow sovereigns who have in good faith started this initiative, we have actually wanted to warn them about all the failures of Croatian foreign policy, even in very correct debates in which no one has been offended and gone below some level, so I would like to send them a message that they got involved, as you said, in a riddle, even though I don't know what it means, so that they got involved in a riddle, here, I would like to explain it and we don't see any riddle here. I see here a failure to find the first man of Croatian diplomacy who wants to convince us that something brought by the parliament of Germany Bundestag, so there is no significance, we all know that Germany is the most important member of the EU where it is condemned and Croatian politics, where it is condemned by the Croatian leader in BiH to conduct some separatist policy, although we all know that the Croats are the only guarantee of the survival of BiH and the most constructive people in BiH, because we have on one hand the R. Serbian who goes into some kind of separatist policy, and we have Croats who do everything that this BiH is actually to be stable and thus be stable and certainly our entire environment here. On the other hand, we didn't get any answers either, so we had an insult to a colleague, because there he was, because of some very likely private obligations, he couldn't stay in that campaign, and now it's like his crime. What should we all do here from HS to participate in Mr. Zigmanov's campaign in order for him to be elected to the Serbian Parliament? Or it is your task as the authorities to ensure that the 2004 Agreement is respected and that Croats have guaranteed representatives in the Serbian parliament. So that's what's embarrassing, and that's why I reacted and told you that we're actually miserable. If we were to compete here how many times someone was in Serbia and supported Zigmanov so that Zigmanov would be elected to the Serbian parliament, although you are aware that everyone is aware that this support, anyone to support him, did not go to the coalition that he would not go, that he would not be chosen, and this was also questionable, or that we should be grateful to Vukic because here he is now negotiating with Zigman about being part of that government, so he does not do it for Zigmanov and for the sake of the Croats, but rather for an unfortunate position in which Serbia is now located between the east and between Russia and the west and then, I suppose, he wants to send some message because, as a result, the Croats took the government. So, as far as corruption itself is concerned, it is scandalous that Minister Grlic Radman here is a series of lies, so I can freely tell lies because they are lies, so Damir Sabelak has been returned to work, an illegal solution that Gordan Grlic Radman has brought down in the Administration of the Court, just like the terrified solution of the minister, former Minister Pejcinović Buric, and this one has actually been proven to be a beast only because he has exposed corruption. And if it wasn't true what you're saying, Mr. Grlic Radman, you claimed that Damir Sabelak had started reporting this whole thing for some of his ambitions. So can you answer me why Damir Sabelak, in 2016, refused to sign the extension of the mandate to Mr Konstantinović? Do you people realize that in Washington there's a man named Konstantinovic? who is employed by an internal [[Thank you. The replica will have.]] [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122635	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122636	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Grmoje, I come from Slavonia and Baranja, from the east of Croatia and what worries us from that region is that during the term of office, Minister Grlic Radman never met an interstate border commission. It's not just about acres of land, it's not about some hell, it's not just about that, it's a very important security issue, we live in times when an angry war in Europe and it's not so far from us in the East, because when we look at it for as long as it's up to the sea, so it's as far as Ukraine is. So the fact is there's absolutely nothing to do about it, and the crown isn't and it can't be an excuse for that unhappiness and riding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122637	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122638	Dear colleague Vucilović, I agree with you that this is a very important issue, and I thank you again for starting this impeachment club and, in fact, by your activity, forced the rest of the opposition to give you signatures and that we have this debate today where we have touched many important issues, here is one that you have now opened. We definitely see, therefore, that Serbia is opening chapters, that Croatia is not doing anything, we also see this example that you pointed out, so this Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs definitely doesn't care about Croatian national interests as much as the colleagues of the ruling majority do not like what we say, but we are speaking on the basis of facts and calling the minister not on the basis of his statements, and he made all kinds of statements, but on the basis of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122639	Thank you, thank you. Now they will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122640	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, here we have not heard the answer from the minister to the questions I have asked, would only briefly ask a few more questions. Minister, what do you say to the people of Tomislavgrad in Duvno, which is why they don't have their representatives in BiH bodies, about the silence, and I would have told my people that, if you only used them as a voting machine and nothing else. When we talk about your foreign policy, then we will remember there are Croats in Serbia. Croatians in Serbia annually, at the annual level i.e. to compare how much comparison there is with Serbs and Croats in Croatia, Serbs and Croats and national minorities in Croatia, 37 kuna Croatia gives compared to one kuna for Croats, as much as it invests in Serbia. Where's the propriety in that? It's gone, it's gone. The second question, I'd still ask you what hurts the most. I don't give a shit about the relationship to Serbia or Serbia. Which is why Serbia, what you said you would fight for, and you did not, that you would stop it before joining the EU, did not Serbia do what it needed to do to Croatia, which is why... And that's our missing, nothing was done except to spread their red wallpaper and what you received then means that you received it and bowed down to that Chetnik. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that your policy is a policy that does not work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, but also this policy with regard to Croatia in the current crisis. I do not understand why Croatia did not protect, and you as a man from diplomacy, which Croatia did not protect its interests like Hungary. Can you explain why the fuel is gasoline in Hungary's Croats as in Croatia, and Hungarians are not? Why is food more expensive to Croatians in Croatia than in other EU countries when you could use your diplomatic skills, you know? So we are currently in the EU not equal, and on this issue I can also say agricultural land. What you have done to Croats at this time, that at this time Croats can protect agricultural land i.e. that there's no sale of agricultural land to foreigners? You colleagues and colleagues know that Hungarians, in Hungary, Croats cannot buy agricultural land. Why? Because Hungarian politics obviously protects in the same form as you say the EU, protects national interests, and we trade with our own. Minister, you have not done your job, you have worked with Croatian interests, you have no sovereignty towards BiH, nor sovereignty, therefore I believe that the minister needs a government that will protect only the interests of the Republic of Croatia and not Brussels interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122641	Dear Representative Kujundzic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122642	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, so here we heard from, it seems to me, colleagues of Stier that the minister has given support to Zigmanov, and you, if I am not mistaken, have been in contact with Zigmanov and since you may be the most popular Croatian politician in the diaspora, have contributed greatly to him or helped to enter and be a voice and Croats. So on the other hand, we have Bištevic who was against so Zigmanov. Now what I do not understand or understand well is how is it possible that the foreign minister, therefore his support, his Suport to Tomislav Zigmanov, and that Bištević, who was sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is against the same election?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122643	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122644	Oh, yeah. Zigmanov said before the parliamentary elections in Serbia that I, you can read it all, that Biscevic resented him for taking a photo with me here as a representative before I don't know, a year and a half, two days and he doesn't trust him. Of course, it is the minister who is familiar with it, it is a public statement from Zigmanov, not Mira Bulja and Žigmanov and Andrej Plenkovic and Grlic Radman conduct absolutely the same policy. Absolutely. Because they were created in the same incubator, and that incubator is called the Foreign Ministry. This is the point, during the Homeland War, that was done by Budimir Lončar, and also by Mate Granic. I was at that time as a young man for a year in the war in BiH. That's why I like to talk about the Croats in BiH because they made a big contribution to Croatia in BiH and Croatia and we there. That's why Once again, it's all politics [[Thank you very much. Next individual debate...]] Mr. Budimir Lonchar's incubator. [[Intruder: there will be a respected representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122645	... Ante Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122646	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected and respected colleagues. Here, it's nine o'clock in the recall of the minister who, we see for ourselves, the opposition has given its signatures, wanted an act event, but here we see everything, unfortunately empty, unfounded, is all about insulting the government, insulting the Prime Minister, the minister, without arguments. We are all aware, as the minister said on several occasions today, what has been happening in the last six years under the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and what has been found by the government, former Zoran Milanovic. There is no need for us to go back to history, unfortunately, through everything the Croatian people have been going through in BiH since 2000, what the Croats have been going through in Vojvodina today, we can say with certainty, today we have a government that cares for its people, not only in BiH and Serbia and Montenegro. Today is this Strategic Compass that we often hear in opposition, he is irrelevant, he has no function, he brings nothing to the Croats, but unfortunately so far no one has done it. Croats in BiH were ridiculed, as were Croats in Croatia. None has been brought except insults and jokes. Today this minister, as responsible minister, stands here in front of all of us and answers every question. Surely, if someone has broken the law, if he has violated the law and the Constitution, it is known that there are institutions that must deal with it. No one can defend anyone if something was done outside the law, no matter who he was. I said, I'm sorry and I really think about our sovereigns very positively, without at all, my Sacic is my war friend, we can politically disagree, but one great respect. And I'm sorry that one of Nina Rasdic's theaters and his boss came along and I'm sorry that you don't belong here, that's my personal opinion that I have the right to. That's not good. The fact that you think someone is capable and incompetent, that's just your attitude, your opinion. Do not let Nino Rasdic, who did not even know this year that the Croat was from Mostar until he saw that it was politically very current or interested. His only agenda is the support and urge of today's president, the former prime minister, and we know what left everything behind. There is no colleague from the SDP, so it is not correct to mention it, but we must mention that Croatia did not have any friends or partners, I am aware of that when I came to Pantovčak with Grabar Kitarović. Yeah, she took Wolfie. In good faith and with pride I can say that I served the Croatian president. What certain representatives here can never experience, and also that patriotism, unfortunately, can't even have. Once again, I want to give full support to the Minister of Throat for everything he does. This government has done a lot in all these turbulent difficult times. Dear sovereigns, I call on you to support Minister Grlic and this government because it is expected of you, it is part of you. Don't be these riddles with this team of Rasputic and the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122647	Thank you. Dear Representative Vucimilović has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can go away from your colleague Deur. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122648	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured by the demeaning of the Croatian sovereign MPs, who, throughout this debate, somehow leads to the fact that we are as crazed as we do not know what we are doing, has been indoctrined by someone who has not responded for the first time, but since you keep saying it, I have to remind myself once more that this is an initiative. The Croatian Sovereigns' Club. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122649	It was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Let's go on, on behalf of the promoter will speak again to the respected representative Marko Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues here I did not plan to comment on my colleague, Deura, I had another topic, I hope to at least get some work done. I don't know, I guess, I mean it's already proven today during this debate that we live in one world, HDZs and governments in another. It's incomprehensible that we're considered to be someone who we've been seduced by someone and who we've come to right now and made this whole impeachment, we've been collecting signatures because someone has instrumented us. And we have proved so far since the first day of the assembly that we are none but our own. What was yours was gone from our club, now it's with you, I hope you'll cooperate happily with your colleague, we obviously couldn't, but it's obviously good for you especially at the moment when you're gonna miss which hand, and here we see coalition partners leaving you, so maybe it's an opportunity for that new hand to show up tomorrow and to support the minister, I don't know. But speaking of the unfounded and insulting others, none of us have offended anyone here. You may be able to take it as an insult because we're giving the facts. The facts that you couldn't kill during this debate because you don't have, there's no, there's no, there's no argument against any of these five points. I didn't hear them. And Kolinda and Vukic that is a special pair of sleeves, perhaps even better not to enter, but given the records or documentation we received from Vukic during his visit, I think it speaks enough at what level Croatian diplomacy, external relations and how these visits are organised. I actually wanted to mention here and talk about the crossroad, the biggest Croatian strategist we haven't been able to touch and has been neglected by this government, but also by all the authorities so far. He was neglected to this level that the Blaibur water organized gatherings at the Music Academy, if I am not mistaken, here we were and General Sacic must call Slovenian experts. Slovenians, Slovenians come to explain how they explore Croatian sites. Slovenia is doing a better job of marking the deaths of innocent Croats, who were not judged by the regime against which you should be against, I hope that most of them are, although you did have this one period of defection from the communist party to HDZ, you may have cleared yourself up to this day, but why you as ruling have not raised that question, why you have not done more on this issue and why in Croatia are not marked, marked sites such as. in Slovenia, even if there was a cross one, one cross put on that place doesn't take much more than that. And it's kind of a start not to forget the past, because the one who forgets his past will be repeated for sure. But here I would actually like to refer to that one, one myth that goes, which is that Croatia means the first white field that is the Ustasha symbol. I've got here meaning in Insbruck, Austria, 1495, the first coat of arms found the first white field. After that, I apologize to the Kingdom of Croatia under the Habsburgs first white field from 1527 to 1868. Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia 1868-1918, Earth of the Crown of St. Stepped the same period even the SFRY has at first, first, pardon the SRH, here I apologize. And it was this and your Tudjman, or our Tudjman, the first president to come here with the first white field. There was a flag standing in front of here with the first white field. And the question of why it came to this, why we are our national identity and now it may not matter to us first or white and red it is all Croatian, Croatian coat of arms but we must not give up on the truth. And I have a feeling that foreign policy and internal politics in Croatia have given up on the truth. She gave up because she's keeping quiet, because it's easier for you to get over something than to tell the truth so you don't accidentally resent someone in Brussels, outside or some lobby within Croatia. That's that HDZ defeat, and that's the compromise that's been made. through this year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122651	We have several replicas, first, excuse me, first is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Busic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in 238, I really respect you all for what you're doing, you're really insulting common sense and me personally, and I mean all of us here. So you know how many Croatians have marked the cemetery in Slovenia? How many Croats go to all those cemeterys and how many books were written about it and that he didn't come just like that. But in the end, we have translated, there is 10 years of his book, but this.../incomprehensible/... he describes the cemetery in Slovenia And it's nothing new. [[Thank you very much.]] Well, I know. [[Intruder: So insulting common sense...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122653	...it's certainly not an art. 238 So I have to give you this, a warning. [[- Well, it's fine.]] Dear Representative Deur has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122654	Here, thank you, Vice President. Here, Your Honor, I was thinking something, but here I just want to relate to what you said, surely to thank Slovenia for every Croatian sacrifice that has been marked. And I'm asking you as a man and as an agent at HS to go to the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, the Department of the Missing, don't do it again like the last one, two, three hours ago, you're one of the lies again. Go away, you'll see how much this Department and the Ministry is doing. How many tombs they found, where, how many people they really work for. Here, I beg you, then come to HS and take it out. Don't say anything, say anything, insult people, insult a party, insult people who do their job truly. Here, I'm asking you as a man, but also as a representative at HS because I think that would be quality. And after that, we'll have a debate, so here you go again and get your signatures and arrange it. It's freedom, it's... Please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122655	Honored representative Milanović litre. No, no, you, after I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122656	Okay. Yeah, here, I didn't actually say you weren't working. ... I know, I know, I know, I speak, I speak, I speak the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I speak HDZ, you work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No one can argue with you, surely you do. But you don't do enough or you don't see those results. That's the thing, that's the thing. The results are not seen and you can't tell me that the better marked sites of Croats from World War II, the second thing is Homeland War, that, I don't think at all, it should be groundless, but the sites and history of Croats, the Croatian national identity, I think that's where HDZ has failed through this year and I don't think I'm alone in that opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122657	Honorable representative Sacic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122658	Your Honor, the President. It is an unusual violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I must refer to my colleague Deura because it is not about the care of the cemetery in Croatia, but about the deafness of the body of the Republic of Croatia, ten years old, to transfer the remains of Slovenia and Austria to the skeleton in Croatia. That's all I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122659	Okay, that was, of course, a replica, so you get a warning. The Honorable representative of the Hood has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122660	Thank you very much. I've been following this debate, we've been arguing all day. Look, I mean, I really don't get it. First part of the opposition spent a year intensively.../incomprehensible/... politics of the usurpator of the position of the Croatian people in BiH, Zoran Milanovic. Part of the opposition has been undermining all efforts, political, diplomatic, financial that the Republic of Croatia is investing in the protection and position of the interest of the Croatian people in BiH, making fun of, making fun of. It was inaugurated to promote a new approach to all the actors that exist at all, everyone. They were garnered to the end and were ready to garner to the end, to the last stone of the Croatian people's constitutionality in BiH. You masterly turned them around three times, pushed their foot, ball through their legs and centered it on Bakir Izetbegovic and what Rasdic would say, evala wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122661	Thank you. Honored representative Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122662	Well, I don't know this, when you heard anyone, the Sovereignist gave any support to Zoran Milanovic, Of Croatian sovereigns absolutely certain [[When I heard, I listened to them for a year.]] You didn't hear that. [[/Intruder: Please, not from the site. Not from the scene.]] And I can guarantee it or find out where someone supported Zoran Milanovic. First of all, I can tell you from my personal experience, my last namer, a part of the last name that didn't usually go to church so much that it remained on Milanović, unlike my family whose Franciscan nickname they gave us litre, I know the history of his family, I know where it came from, and I certainly don't fall on his flossules about protecting Croats, protecting Croatian interests, although I must say that I support that in that context that at any time and in any way put the question of Croats in BiH on the wallpaper. But that doesn't mean that at any point I supported him, more or less, I was in charge, one of these main critics, and I believe and considered and still what has been confirmed [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] that they're all floscules. [[Thank you very much. Next debate bit... /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122663	... willrespector Radoja Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122664	Honorable Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Tonight, we are discussing an initiative to vote in confidence to honor Prime Minister Radman. One of the main items and criticism of his work, it is said he has tried, but there are no results regarding the negotiations on amending the election law in BiH. I can also say here that I suspect that the minister could have done something, that the minister depended on the success of these negotiations, that the first one, and that he missed it, that he first raised his hand to be all because the conduct of the verdict in the Ljubicic case is so important for the Croats in BiH, is so important for the Republic of Croatia that it exceeds the importance of any individual and me and all of us here together. I am convinced that the big, unfortunately missed opportunity to stabilise the situation in BiH through an amendment to the election law, to improve the relations between Croats and Bosniaks and to make progress in BiH to stabilise, to make progress, to include BiH in Euro-Atlantic integration, and then to ensure the security of progress and the Republic of Croatia. But we need to know what's going on here. In BiH, two major national projects of Bosniak and Serbian clash. And these projects have been collisioning for 30 years. There are different concepts as we see BiH Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks. The Serbs have been clear since the beginning, they want big Serbia. At first, it was the whole of BiH, and after the Dayton Agreement, the unification of Serbia and Republika Srpska. Bosniaks want a Bosniak nation where there is no place for Croats as an equal constituent nation. And that policy lasts 30 years. And all those who have criticised the minister here tonight are not aware that it is not the minister, that it is the essential Bosniak policy and that they will not give up easily, and that we see it every day. Unfortunately, they took advantage of the occasion in 2000, 2002, when a different policy came to Croatia than the HDZ policy to lobby the high representative and part of the international community to help abolish those rights to Croats who guaranteed the Dayton Agreement. The Croats were then in such a position that they were accused, that they were convicted, that they were punished. From Croatia came silence or... That's the kind of move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, when we talk about the failure of these negotiations, we must be aware that we have a verdict in the Ljubic case which is essential for the Croats in BiH and BiH, that we have a debate on the Croatian issue in BiH in the European Council, that we have the conclusion of the European Council that negotiations on the amendments to the constitution will continue, that these negotiations will also have to include a verdict in the Ljubic case. We have a strategic security compass that clearly says the security issue is the issue of the equality of Croats in BiH. And what I try to conclude, thank you Minister, is that the results are great for us from persecution to equal participation of our representatives in the negotiations on amending the electoral law. We should continue this path, be open to Bosniaks, offer them cooperation, but we must also be determined. First of all, we in BiH need to stay and develop a strategy on how to make the Croats demographically, economically, politically stronger in BiH, so that Bosniaks do not trust that we will leak out of BiH, go away. Croatian diplomacy should continue to lobby wherever it can in international factors, and above all in the United States because the key will be the solution to the issue in BiH in the United States as the world's most important force. We also need to make it clear to the Bosniaks that issues of equality between the Croats in BiH, issues of strategic, security, national interest for all Croats wherever they live and that they will not be tolerated by trampling out these rights, trampling out international peace agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122665	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122666	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coliga Vidović, you, colleagues Barbaric and colleagues Bušić have been at the assembly for 2 years about your high Croatian home. You come from the diaspora, and I am sure you know the best well and know the problems that Croats have in BiH and that you certainly advocate and view interests as a parliamentary representative from the diaspora that the better they do for the Croats in BiH. So I'm just asking you, recently when there are opposition colleagues, specifically from the MOST, who today publicly defends and says that the ministry is not working and Minister Radman is doing his job, how did you feel as a representative when asked, who are you, who are these two sitting here in the assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122667	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122668	Thank you, so it's important to me in life that I know who I am, what I am, that people who went 30, 40, 50 km drive to vote for me, my colleague, my colleague Busicka. And we are responsible first of all for them. Those who say that talk more about them. And whoever in this assembly is taking care of the Croats in BiH, while at the same time pushing for the collapse of this government, forming a government with Wecan, it cannot be an honest friend of the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122669	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Željko Sacic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122670	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public who followed us, here I had, I had the wish and the need of Mr. Minister to express my position on what we have done over the past 30 years. With one aspect of the Croatian defender, I know a lot of what we are facing today and what has offered us for this initiative is not you personally in your mandate, that you have inherited a lot, but unfortunately you share all of this, all of these shortcomings and all of these failures and all of these mistakes and, in fact, you wear them on your back as the last one. You are 15 in a row appointed by this council, this government. Crucially, after the death of President Tudjman until that time we had a situation, we had ministers to remember the impressions of the late Professor Šeparović and those before, many are unfortunately dead, rest their souls during that period. However, it remains a bitter wound to every Croatian patriot, to every Croatian defender after the process, Mr Davor Ivo Stier and to you, after the process of detudmanization that took place by the election of one sinister President of the Republic of Croatia, who first made himself a fellow gentlemen, the name of adviser Budimir Lončar, the biggest enemy of Croats and Croatian statehood and Croatian sovereignty and every Croatian defender and such adviser Mr Stier and Mr. Minister, forgive me for raising a tone but I must, he created a human policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What has contributed, which has contributed, to the extent that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has today spoken of him in another way, to the extent that this villain against the Croatian Budo Lončar, who in several terms, even Josipovic kept him, has created such policies against the Croatians worldwide and in Europe, these are crucial issues. Why did we keep silent, why are we today saying that our foreign policy is kneeling, that it is flimsy, that it is not determined, so it is the personnel of Croatia's enemies amongst other things. And now it was expected that when our government called it that after that third month to fix it, but our power under Sanader was all but our power was unfortunately not our power, so 500 thousand Croatian heroes of Falcons, how many more youth, Ante Deur you know very well how much the potential of Croatian gorillas for Croatia, how many young and smart people in my sector alone, police resistors, special police officers, today we have 4-5 doctors of science, some have competed for the president, for the constitutional court, so why not a wide pool of Croatian patriots took them out of the model of Israel 100, two hundred, five hundred Croatian diplomats and all sorts of people in sectors that will protect Croatian national interests because they were protected in their lives in war. It's the crime of this ministry globally, not you personally, but it had to be done, and it wasn't done, and it's the cancer of our system's wounds because you, I don't want to accuse and count the blood cells that are from Buda Lončar, who isn't, who's from Pusićka, who isn't, I want to say there's a lack of sovereign, brave, determined, smart and educated young diplomats, and not that we have Goldstein who has Tito's statutes in Paris, and how many there are we don't know about. That is, there is the cancer of our wound, our state and our ministry, and not to mention why we are not responding to all these aggressions that someone has said well to the Serbian world, our dear Bojan told us so. So is there no one, is not motivated enough, is scared, is not, is not raised in a way to defend Croatia with their lives and health and all, all mental energies. I'm sorry about the noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122671	The Honorable Representative Totgergeli has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122672	Thank you, Vice President. Well, he was injured in 238 because the promoter is actually insulting our intelligence here. Now he just said that the minister is not guilty of anything, and here's a proposal on his recall, and you've made a good point of saying where the problems are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122673	He doesn't know anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122674	You gave them a good list of where the problems are, and this minister is the one who solves and moves the foreign policy in the direction where it needs it, and you've actually kept us here for nothing all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122675	My colleague Totgergeli this was not, it was a replica because insulting this common sense is not...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122676	I agree with you, I support you, Mr. Chairman absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122677	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The Republic has a respected representative, Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122678	Dear fellow Sacic, here is, unlike some colleagues, I think that we are not lame here, it is our job to be here, so we have the support of Croatian citizens and to discuss correctly, politely, to point to problems, to the shortcomings that we consider to be from the opposition that they are, and it is up to you to try to defend them. I personally believe that we have given much more arguments which we seek for the reason of the Minister's impeachment than you have given counterarguments to his good work. When you look at all the suma sumarum realistically looking at your arguments don't exactly hold water, your arguments don't hold water. Col. Sacic, here's a simple question, do you think that Croatian diplomacy is the last 3rd year? performs quality tasks in protecting Croatian national interests, both in BiH and in the Republic of Serbia and in other neighbouring countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122679	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122680	Well very simple and short, unfortunately, I don't think so and I don't have that conviction and I really don't think that Mr., I didn't say that, that Mr. Grlic Radman was amnested by an answer but that he didn't do enough to correct these brutal long-term injustices and irregularities, not fast enough to correct them. It was supposed to be cut with a razor when it came into position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122681	Now finally, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Mosta will speak to the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122682	What would you be running from, Minister? So, yes, I saw that you were a fugitive, so you avoided this debate and answers to questions about corruption, and I see HDZ boasting on Twitter that there is no opposition, there are oppositions, the right opposition is here today, those who will support you tomorrow about constitutional changes that will take away the referendum of the Croatian people, but we, we don't count them as, as an opposition. So what counts here is not the number of hands, what counts here is the strength of the arguments, and the strength of the arguments is on the side of the proposer. Both your relationship and your behaviour towards Serbia where Serbia opens chapters, and you do nothing yet violate a valid government decision. So you're acting against the law. Just as you acted against the law when you made an illegal decision about the distance of diplomats who exposed the corruption instead of listening to it, that's all he reported. Yeah, no, no, he wanted to come, he wanted to come, but neither did the DORH, nor did the minister call him, but without talking, they removed him from the service. And the DORH is now calling him, the DORH is now calling him, he's already on two calls, and he's going to be in jail, there's only going to be a question of who's going to end up in jail, that's the question. So, I'll finish, I could, I could end up so I said only if you establish a dictatorship, how much this left opposition helps you we're close to, but you're wondering something and the people. And you forget, and you forget, you forget that there is a sovereign people in Croatia, not a Constitutional Court. What I want to say here in December 2016 is that the General Consulate from Sydney Hrvoje Perusic sent a submission in which he wrote that no professional diplomat worked in Sydney in the previous months, and Bertosa Kushen wrote in her resume that she had been deployed in Sydney just because of Sabek's first application in 2016. So everything you've been saying here is a lie and a lie. A half hour after Sabek's application, Mail Christmas proves that inspector Christmas has asked individuals in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to remain silent, imagine the impediment, the mafia, so he orders to remain silent about the crime in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On Christmas Day, Pejcinovic Buric allowed the ministry's documents to be prepared for UKOK because of Sabek's report on suspicions that Christmas covered up applications in Australia and the United States. Everyone has to be individually responsible for their actions. And that's what's gonna happen to you. Not only those who committed corruption, but also those who covered up corruption. The government will change, and the furniture in the DORH will change. The DORH will become more independent and free. And then all those responsible will answer. I will not say Gordan Grlic will end up in prison as the minister told me here. I will tell all those who participated in corruption, all those who covered up corruption, when institutions are independent and free will be responsible for corruption. If we didn't have the European Prosecutor's Office to fight corruption, nothing would happen, and I don't appreciate it. I find it ugly that Croatian politicians are arresting the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It sends me a message saying we're not a sovereign country. That's what he's texting me, that's what he's texting me. So, we will not end it, Mr Kapulica, but we will make Croatian institutions deal with corruption and Croatia a sovereign state that leads to interest in Croatian citizens. What I wanted to ask you, Mr. Deur, is what happened to the families of Sotina's missing, what did you help them with Colinda Grabar Kitarovic and you? What did you, Mr. Minister, do for our people who file private lawsuits in Serbia and receive compensation for immaterial damage? Do you know what's going on there, does the ambassador in Belgrade know what's going on? They send me messages and say, "Let there be shame, from Soto's people, let there be shame." The shame of Antu Deura... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122683	Thank you, buddy, please stick to the time. Dear Representative Deur [[Intruder: 239th sir.]] You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. [[- Sir, Mr. Grmoya.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122684	If anyone should be ashamed it's you, it's you because all you're saying is lies, insinuations, and you're being witnessed by people from your neighborhood that you've done crime and incorrect things. You'd better talk about it, so it took an hour to talk about the subject. You better fulfill what you've been doing and how you've been doing these crimes because you're, in your view, you can see that you're one of those criminal profiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122685	My colleague, my colleague Deur, wasn't that, it wasn't this violation of the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, I would ask that we avoid such a way of talking to each other, is this one, of course, that I'm giving you a warning. This fellow Grumoya, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122686	Article 238 was injured, it is nice to see a colleague named Deur refer to Velimir Bujanca. So on his shows where he muddled me like the muddy president whom he represented while she was praised before or as Miroslav Scoru rose to heaven, then Miroslav Scoro was the worst man in the world. I'm glad when Velimir Bujanec and such like you muddled me. Then I know that I am on the right track, on the path to protecting Croatian national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122687	A fellow bush and it was a replica of this unfortunately I must give you a third reminder of this so with taking... Slowly, slowly he'll get now if he persists, persists in it he'll get back, but you've got [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: 239.]] but you have received pursuant to Article 240(2) of the notice [[Aggression: Grumoja turn around.]] by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this topic. [[Intruder: Grmoja.]] Are you sure you want to? All right, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Vice President, the privilege is that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122688	Privilege, 239, Mr. Grmoya, have you been consulting this guy with Mr. Capulco lately? And we should do a little bit if you've forgotten the situation, that's... Because it's already a few things you've done and what you've lied about, insinuated and Mr. Hood has publicly presented certain facts, if all true your place is out of politics, sir, beyond human and moral value because you've lied so much that it's terrifying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your every moment is yours. beyond human value. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122689	Thank you very much this has not been a violation of the Rules of Procedure you also receive a third reminder and a confiscation of words in accordance with Article 240(2) until the end of the debate on this subject. I beg you, I beg you hold on to dignity I know it's 10 in the evening but please hold to your dignity first and then the dignity of this home. Please. My colleague Bulj, you want the same violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122690	Thank you very much. A colleague, Deur, was injured by Article 238, demeaning the representatives. But this is to him it seems to me 23 reminders today so that you can take a good look at what you've done. The second insults the MPs as if he were a criminal while he was taking these brushes with Colinda Vukic because Chetnik Vukic was well told. You've received a colleague of the Deur Chetnik Vukic red wallpaper of the Croatian honorable soldier you've lined up for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122691	Okay, this one I gave to my colleague, Deura, for that notice, this was completely unnecessary, and you get a third warning in accordance with Article 240(2), with the wording taken away until the end of the debate on this subject. Dear Representative Davor Ivo Stier, finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, i.e. co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, are already late and may be falling a little hard words, but after a whole day's debate, perhaps what John Fitzgerald Kennedy used to say could be remembered, no one could be stronger outside than he was at home. This debate is also seen by Croatian citizens, but also by those who want to know what is going on in Croatia and how Croatia will act. And let us not give cause to those who do not want Croatian national interests to be realized by potentiating divisions where they should not be. It is clear, the opposition and has its function, for this we have fought to live in democracy and it is corrective, but there should be a measure in everything. The government and minister lead a policy that seeks the equality of Croats as a constituent people in BiH. And I think it's a platform that at least everybody should in principle and everybody supports. And that's an important message, but when it's being represented, and that kind of policy has those that don't agree with it, and there's going to be criticism as well as those we heard in the Bundestag, there were before, there were '90s. how much, even when the storm was being prepared and later when there was so much criticism. But this is not a reason, and this should not be a reason for us to replace the minister, but rather for the parliament to support him to insist exactly in achieving the equality of Croats in BiH in the vision of European BiH where all three constituent nations will be equal. And I believe that's the message we have to send at the end of this day from this high house. Likewise, as regards Chapter 23 in accession negotiations with Serbia. There is a lot of mention of this chapter, we know that just then the government in the HDZ-MoST coalition during Prime Minister Oreshkovic has fought to enter into the negotiating framework conditions that Serbia needs to meet. And I believe okay, there's been a debate about it that's why the commission was made, not everyone was happy, but I think today we all see how important it is that these conditions exist within that negotiating framework. And what happened? It happened that during this government during the European Presidency of 2020, the whole mechanism was changed so that not only Chapter 23 but no other chapter in the negotiations could Serbia close unless it met the very conditions that our government had requested to enter and which are now within the EU's negotiating framework. And that's a fact and we have to say it. I know today there have been different statements, some who have sought a firmer position, some have even said we need to improve relations with Alexander Vukic, so there was division within those who signed this, this non-trust claim. There were also those who even accused each other now of seeking a dictatorship, so there were many divisions even among the opposition. However, we must send a clear message on these terms by the Croatian state insists and the EU insists and they must be fulfilled and in the new mechanism I repeat one, none, none of Serbia can close unless it meets those conditions first, not only Chapter 23. And about border disputes in the end, let us not fall into one criticism often used by those who did not want Croatia to join the EU, and today they do not want to enter Schengen, which is that we have unresolved issues with all neighbours because it is not. We do, we certainly know where the borders of the Republic of Croatia are. There are certain disputes. Many European countries have them, but Croatia knows where the borders are, it is ready to keep them, and it does, and that is why it will enter Schengen space. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122693	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is this long day and exhausting, in fact perhaps more because of an unusual controversy that is not superior to a high home as the Croatian Parliament. I respect the initiative, absolutely, is no problem, Mr. Pavlovichk, as far as impeachment is concerned. Congratulations, thank you. But I'm sorry not to recognize, I agree when you say you care about citizens' interests, and I want to tell you, isn't it the interest of Croatian citizens to travel without visas to the United States? Don't you see anything, absolutely nothing, no achievement? Isn't the launch of a double tax avoidance agreement with the United States a achievement? Well, we're not doing it because of someone's paper, etc. than we actively participate, as we listen, we visit our people. We're talking to our people, I believe you're talking to them on your own level. But we're more involved, Mr. Pavlovichk. I lived until '91. Mr. in Switzerland, and I know, so I have one experience of work, responsibility, discipline, habits and knowledge. I'm back here and I'm an original Croatian diplomat. I respect Mr. Sacic when he tells about the doctors of the science of Croatian defenders. There are Croatian defenders, General Consul, you don't need me here right now, why should I tell you who's what? There is no reason if I am certain of it and if I know that as an original Croatian diplomat, one who believed in freedom, independence, sovereignty of the Croatian state, if I pass and promote the Croatian state and its interests, then I know what I am doing. On the other hand, when I was also in Germany a short ambassador, not as long as you thought, but long enough to advance relations and say what needs to be said, that I initiated and protect integrity and bl. Aloys of Stepinca in German public opinion. It was a new paradigm approach. I'm saddened not to feel rising... I guess people think it's some kind of metaphysic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's look at a little sense of the prosperity of the state, of the citizens, how can an ordinary man feel it? He doesn't need to know how to get this... Rating, what it means, how it is raised, who estimates it, etc., but stronger reputation of financial Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Doesn't entering a Schengen area where the safety of citizens really matter to you mean anything to you? Well, Croatian citizens want security, he doesn't care about anything. He wants to live well, on his own, that he has the social standard and all the conditions that every EU citizen has, and that is why we have entered the community of values, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and entry into the euro zone, the impact on the growth of Croatia... Croatian citizens and the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, you don't refer to anything, and it's all in the interest of Croatian citizens, and you keep telling me, I don't know, the border of Prevlaka, etc. Well, you know that, sir! I, it's unquestionably, that the border on Prevlaca is on land. I'm still going, I'm telling the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, don't talk to me about Prevlaza and the border at sea, so we know it's '46. to the Bar was Dalmatia. So we can also talk in this way, but of course we respect international law, international law, international law and, and, and, and, the borders of modern states after the collapse of the former state, but this is something that can be discussed, there are very many countries in the EU that have not resolved border issues, but we are resolving both fate and law and Croats, of course, in Croatia and BiH. But here's your initiative, how very good it is here, to invite me, thank you. Even Mr. Komsic referred in his tweet to your initiative and, like, takes it as his political victory, and you've disappointed me very much, you're using a dictionary that's rude, that doesn't belong to HS, so I'm saying it's better to lose you twice than once to find you, you've done a great job when you've been sharing accreditations. in Metkovic at Maraton Shipyard and I want you to keep doing it. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122695	I thank the Minister. On behalf of the Proposer, Dear Marijan Pavliček [[Intruder: Arguments, Ministers.]] [[Intruder: The corruption you're protecting.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122696	Here's the esteemed vice president of HS, as they say, sugar at the end. First, I want to thank you, here, everyone who has participated in this debate so far. But in the end, I'd like to point out something. We have indeed, although some accuse us of entering into this with some others, entered on our own initiative because we believe that Minister Grlic Radman did not do the job for which he was paid. Once again, none of us here said he didn't try. If he hadn't tried, but the result was gone, he wasn't gone, the results unfortunately are gone, and that ultimately measured everything. In sport, measure the result, measure the result in business, measure the result in politics. This is where the score is missing. There has been no change to the election law in BiH remains so, Croats remain on the verge of political action. There has been no implementation of the 2004 Agreement between Croatia and the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The Croats have played the case, thanks to Tomislav Zigmanov and his ability to negotiate entered the National Assembly and do not gird yourself with other people's feathers. Tomislav Žigmanov and his entry into the National Assembly of Serbia has absolutely nothing to do with the work of the Foreign Ministry, as well as Adrian Luksanovic is the minister without portfolio in the government of Montenegro as a minority government, has absolutely nothing to do with Minister Grlic Radman, and there is no merit for Minister Grlic Radman on this issue and should be made clear, it has absolutely nothing to do with you. These are the processes that happened at the moment. As you know, the Croats do not have their own representative in the Parliament of Montenegro. They don't have it. They lost, they split into two sides, and they don't have one. But what hurts, there's a guaranteed one. They should have it because it's a very low threshold, they don't have it in Serbia. As for border disputes, I note once again, the inter-border, inter-state border commission did not meet in the mandate of Minister Grlic Radman. counterpart Davor Ivo Stier says Croatia knows where its borders are. Croatia will defend its borders. So the Croatian foot, the foot of a Croatian soldier, never stopped on Vukovar Ada or in the Sarengrad ad, without talking about 15 thousand hectares of Croatian land on the left bank of the Danube. So what are we protecting our external borders for? What makes our citizens think they're safe? She didn't set foot. Fifteen thousand acres plus Charengrad hell. And that's a fact. And that's where we didn't move from the dead spot, we didn't have a conversation, and they're pulling out that it was the crown, it couldn't travel, etc. But I do believe that all of us who remain here want well for Croatian foreign policy and the Croatian people, both in BiH and the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia. But I wouldn't want to, really, if I had to come to a level of insult. I really didn't, I tried to keep this controversy at some level, I had a series of suggestions and memos from Switzerland, react to this, react to what, I won't get to that level. I can't even think of that. But I would only like you to confess your sins by ruling, and you have enough sin, or failure. It's not all as great as you're showing it. Well, there was so much here, when you don't have enough arguments, then you're dealing with things like the Peles Bridge. What does the Peljeski Bridge have to do with Minister Grlic Radman? Let's face it. What does this have to do with the foreign minister and this subject that we're talking about? What does it have to do with entering the euro zone, which we of the sovereigns believe is premature at the moment, has to do with Minister Grlic Radman? Absolutely no connection. A series of things you have listed here are not achievements, under quotes, Minister Grlic Radman and his portfolio. We specifically cited things that we consider to have failed and could have been better, better done. And it could have been, you know that. And yet in this whole story, how much you defend Tomislav Žigmanov and him you love, none of you, none of you condemned Hidajit Bištevic, but none of the MPs or the current minister. And that's interesting and you don't have the arguments, you tell me what you want. You have no argument here and you will not have it and it is the defeat of Croatian diplomacy because that is not how diplomacy is conducted. Can't say one word to the ambassador today, and tomorrow the minister to whom this commanding officer is to say something else. He can't. If we're a serious country, then let's be a serious state to the end. And I really started this with an initiative, with the intention of pointing to a problem. Of course, we are aware that as an opposition, we cannot change the relationship of power and that the minister will receive the trust of the majority tomorrow, but to point to certain problems and there is no movement. I thank everyone in the opposition, as much as you are now accusing, we see, they've given you support on the left, right, this, that. But that only shows that 99% of the opposition is dissatisfied with the work of the minister. No matter what the party of the far right has launched, as many of us show thanks again to my fellow bridge colleagues for staying until the end, I thank all colleagues who have signed and shown collegiation. We stayed until the end. Honorably. We die, but honorably. But we made our arguments, and we have those arguments. You unfortunately didn't have them in this whole story. Unfortunately, you didn't have one. Because in the end, I'm telling you one thing again. I don't challenge anyone's efforts. That's why you're paid, we're all paid for it, for our work, that's why we have diplomacy, that's why we have a minister who's paid for the state budget, but ultimately it's only one thing that matters, and that's the result, and there's no result. But in the sign that this is not to be a fight until the end, I really hope that the Croats, regardless, will win their true representative in BiH in the Presidency chosen by the Croatian people, not the Bosniak representatives, that the Croats will manage to keep, let's say, a balance in the House of the Federation of BiH and I am giving this support with the flag of the Croatian people of BiH here in HS because Croatians deserve it, is here a good part of us like Minister Grlic Radman to bring his roots from BiH? And never, but we must never give up Croats in BiH. There are 300,000 of them today, although there are 10,000 of them, we must fight for them until the last. When it was the Homeland War, regardless of the borders, they did their best from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, and we always have to keep that in mind and fight with their fists at the table, even if they opposed the entire EU to say openly that they are part of us and that we have a commitment whatever Bundestag has brought to Berlin and its resolution under the Dayton Agreement, according to the Washington Agreement, protects our people in BiH who unfortunately turn into a national minority regardless of what political options we come from. I don't believe that any of us here who stayed here today, colleague Bulj came in this morning and now he's had some sleep at his club as much as I have information that needs to be re-traveled, came here this morning to discuss this subject. We all care about our own people, and here we all have to breathe as one. But let's admit the mistakes, let's just admit here I made a mistake and let's change something and no one will say you're the guilty ministers for everything. All the governments before you were guilty because nothing was done for 20 years, they had no support at all, and they even had difficult circumstances because they were told x times to look for your happiness in Sarajevo. But the fact is, we haven't used that mechanism to the end. We did not use them because we are a full member of the EU and we could. We just need to be a little stronger, a little harder and implement the sovereignty policy and we will protect the Croatian people. Well, we as Croats have bowed our heads and bowed down like the last 45 years, let's take a break. We have more respect for ourselves, and nothing else is smarter than us. Absolutely nothing. And we're smarter and we're more capable and we have mechanisms in our hands. As we need to help our people in Vojvodina not to fall to 10-20 thousand tomorrow, so we should do this in BiH as well. Now it's like I gave a political speech. Thank you again, everyone, and good night. There's a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122697	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122698	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He was injured in 238, a colleague of Pavliček you said yourself that the minister was doing his job, but you would measure him with some other instruments of his results. And you're saying we admit our own mistakes, and you missed the whole debate saying that in fact it hurts the foreign policy of the President of the Republic of Croatia three times more than anyone else, than anyone else in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you missed to say, and that depends on the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122699	Time, you used this for replica, you get a warning. Next injure of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122700	The President-in-Office shall be President-in-Office of the European Parliament and of the Council. And my colleague obviously doesn't understand what we're discussing here today. No one's saying it wasn't working at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, we're saying there were no results. If that's not clear to you after 6 hours of debate, that's your problem, buddy, that's your problem. And as for everything else, look no, I mean here at the pay phone I said what the problems are with Zoran Milanovic, and what you don't want to hear is your problem. You might have it written somewhere on paper, so there's nothing else you can do. except say it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122701	And you get a warning, it's your third warning you lose your right to debate. Replica Radoje Vidovic, a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122702	Well, here's the thing, even though with a pretty good part of this, I agree with you, I can't agree that there's no result. The US-Croatian Forum of State Secretary of the United States clearly states that the US supports BiH, two entities, three equal constituent nations. There's huge progress compared to the previous one. And that EU strategic security compass makes it clear that equality, the constitutionality of the people, is of strategic interest. A decision by the European Council that says negotiations on BiH's candidate status will continue when implemented, when it comes to re-election law. We also can't say that these negotiations are over with failure. We have that success. The myth has been broken that the verdict by Sejdic Finci is that it is not in line, that it cannot be brought into line with the equality of the Croatian people. Also, the HNS proposal, the Constitutional Court said it does not offend any inviolable interest of any people and passed the House of Peoples So it's half-successful, and it's not there yet. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122703	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122704	Dear colleague Vidovic, I want you to succeed in selecting your member of the presidency in the upcoming elections of all hearts, regardless of which political options came from, as I want you to win in the first local elections as many municipalities in Central Bosnia and those we lost and to keep all those municipalities in Bosnia Posavina because it is the interest of every Croat in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-14-0.u122705	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
