ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102765	Thank you very much. We will now stop a little debate because an hour has already passed and we will go to the meeting on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives and the first to speak as an independent representative, the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102766	Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday's meeting of the assembly and the behaviour of Prime Minister Plenkovic and President of the Jandrokovic Assembly testify about the deep crisis in which Croatia is located, but also yesterday it proved that the most responsible for the crisis does not show any indication that they are planning to change or do something to stop the decommissioning of Croatia because the everyday life of Croatian citizens is very often dramatic. When you regularly order for example a MRI check in Croatia because there are indications that you have cancer, it is known that the first term is 14 months from the day of your application. It's clear to everyone as long as they're waiting for that person's time to die. The fundamental question is, why doesn't our health care work? Why are our teachers paid miserablely? Why do shop employees make bad money while prices are in these shops like in Germany or Austria where employees earn three or four times as much? We must seek the answer in the non-functioning of the Croatian state system, more precisely in the suspension of the legal order in Croatia and the non-compliance with the European culture policy and the insistence in the fate of the Croatian corruption system. A few weeks ago, a German minister of the Anne Spiegel family had to resign because she had to resign as a minister in the province's government, and after the flood that took place in its province of Raina... went on a vacation that had paid for much earlier than the flood. By the way, her husband had had a stroke, so it was a kind of rehabilitation, but when texting her and the ministry's spokeswoman came out of it that during the flood, the lady took care of her image, and not of the flood victims, the public felt that she had to step down because she considered it immoral and unacceptable. The message is clear, you can't be a thief, a liar and a thief, and you can just manage public good. Public goods must be managed by people with morals and ethical principles. Ladies and gentlemen, Andrej Plenkovic named Ivan Paladin as minister when his business activities were already published, which are extremely harmful to Croatian taxpayers. Minister Zdravko Maric has proved to have been pulling corruption tails for years in which he has had direct personal benefit, which have been extremely harmful to Croatian taxpayers. Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic has evidenced that he has participated in the setting up of competitions and has damaged Croatian taxpayers. Former Assistant Minister Ciocic suspects Coric personally suffered damage to taxpayers and affected delinquent entrepreneurs. People like Mladen Bajic still operate in the DORH, although there are serious indications that they personally participated in corruption and protected corruption in Croatia for years. Why is it important to quote all of this? The reason is very simple, in the corruption system, the vast majority of Croatian citizens are disfigured from the health system, the exercise of social care rights, employment to science, etc. Only the rule of law and respect for the law can ensure the development of a society and the well-being of citizens in that society. It is proven either legality, orderliness and well-being or violation of the law, powerlessness and poverty. This government or rather this HDZ, SDP and their satellites are caused by powerlessness and corruption, and as we can see, not by the parties and their membership, but by the powers of the past with the pedigret. We must create conditions of legal order in which all are equal before the law and no participation in secret criminal groups can be a criterion for participation in power, but we must punish those people. As long as the President of the Constitutional Court has 10 million kuna savings and hides the source of this wealth, Croatia is not and cannot be a legal state. No one can and cannot be above the law in Croatia. The sacred goal of every patriot must be the arrangement of Croatia in which the rule of law is functional. This cannot be ensured by those who brought Croatia into this crisis, so we are obliged to do everything possible to overthrow HDZ, SDP usurper and build a fair and happy Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102786	In the name of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102787	Does the Croatian village have a future? According to DZS data in February, purchasers collected 33,168 tonnes of domestic cow milk, the minimum quantity in each month since these data were published. This is 3% less than in February last year and even a third less than in February 2012, and before 10.g. Almost 50,000 tonnes of domestic milk were collected in February. Since the consumption of milk in Croatia has not dropped, it is obvious that more and more import milk and processing such as cheese, cream and yogurt are not produced from domestic raw materials on the market. The way things are now, things aren't coming to an end. DZS data reveal that during a 10-year period, the average amount of milk collected in Croatia fell by as much as 30%. We don't need to think of anything new to stop this fall and improve production, just look at an example of us close countries like Austria and copy it. None of us are likely to view Austria as a agricultural country, but Austria has long become self-sufficient using funds within the framework of the common European agricultural policy, and in recent years its exports at 10 billion euros have become self-sufficient. Austria has achieved a turnover of 2 billion euros of organic food while in Croatia it is only 100m euros. In parallel, Austria destroyed the makija and forested what had to be forested with indigenous forest, developed extensive farming and Polish forest management in the karst area, cattlemen paved their treasures in the forests by protecting them from fire, responsible for the biodiversity and contribution of organic meat and milk production, while we have a rather abnormal situation, cattlemen are being defended by pastures in abandoned and grown karst pastures, fertile pastures are being forested with invasive alpine and black pine trees that destroy biodiversity, and Croatian forests are taking off electric shepherds, persecuting herds, even the regulations defend the keeping cattle in the countryside. The common agricultural policy also applies to Croatia, so many are unclear why we are not self-sufficient and where European funds go, but it is still a question for those who decide. In this regard, the European Commission has found that Croatia has spent as much as 80% of the strictly dedicated funds for non-agricultural purposes, infrastructure, construction of firehouses, unnecessary kindergartens in those areas where children do not have children, then editing municipal buildings so that the work of municipal chiefs is as pleasant as possible, regulating markets, trails and the like, we are almost the worst since the withdrawal of funds from the EU, and we do not invest in agriculture, and it is no wonder that people have emigrated us and that we have a drastic decline in agricultural production. We all swear on the development of rural areas, and so far, 500 thousand people have moved out of rural areas. This is an indication that rural development is not being carried out in Croatia in line with the European Commission's plans, but that farmers are only a means of withdrawing funds from European funds, and these funds do not come to farmers at all, but they are being rerouted to who knows exactly where they are by political ties and guidelines, and all with the aim of political survival, not by retaining the population and increasing the production of domestic food. Agriculture is not just a question of food production; it is a question of the survival of rural environments, demographics and the preservation of biodiversity. Agricultural production can and should be as the new CAP and requires in the service of conservation of the environment, plant and animal species and ultimately human health. The development of agriculture would have developed other branches of the economy such as rural tourism, which is still in our crops and is largely dependent on the initiative and investment of enthusiasts, and this should certainly not be so. It is sad to witness daily phenomena that a Croatian citizen living in an intact nature is buying Austrian organic food while our country administration is making it impossible for him to produce it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102848	In the name of the HDZ Representatives Club, the honourable representative Ljubomir Kolarek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102849	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, about a year, a year and a half ago in our Međimurje, there was a great sea of bees, and we all somehow believed that this would never happen again, but unfortunately 4-5 days ago again, a great killing of bees, and now in this part, I'm going to say to the Drava part where more than 20 million bees have died. The inspections work, investigate, but the fact is that the sea was after treatment of the oily turnip, and perhaps not at the right time and not in the right way, was treated in a warmer part of the day when the bees went to the pasture and were treated when the oily tail was already in the high blooming stage. It's not good, it's not good, because the pesticide used to treat our farmers in a strange way, perhaps from Bosnia or some other country, is illegal because buying pesticides and using pesticides in our country is a way, a procedure, and every one that uses pesticide has to go through a certain education. And now we're all asking ourselves what to do? Of course, in the worst case, the sea will still be at least 10 days but it's about the survival of the bee, it's about the survival of life because let's not forget that if we destroy the bees five years after that there won't be a human life either. We will do everything and we, the mayors, probably the mayors and the ministry to help beekeepers, but there is one thing that I think is important and important to say. We've got hunters, we've got foresters, but somehow we've forgotten the fielders. Fielders should control fields so as not to damage Polish roads, not to steal, and also to process agricultural land in an adequate and quality manner. This may be one of the good measures, although it may all be a burden to local self - government units, but health and life are first. I also believe that this problem should include insurance houses and, in my opinion, the most important education, education and responsibility of all our warlords towards nature, the use of pesticides and people who deal with beekeeping. There should be an agreement, a notice that treatment is being done, that bees are being protected, that human life and health are being protected. And I believe that we will all help our beekeepers to survive together together and thus demonstrate our very responsibility for the laws that we bring here in the Croatian Parliament and on, and we first show that they must and should be properly and fairly applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102977	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u102978	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the level of anxiety in our policy is once again reaching new peaks. At the same time, the level of communication has fallen again even lower than we thought possible. One source of this tension is surely the government's reconstruction announced. Yesterday here in the assembly, the prime minister said one very interesting thing that actually in one sentence depicts the character of that reconstruction and everything that is with it is a problem. The sentence was about to say that the reconstruction wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for DORH's activity. Ministers are arrested, investigated and new indictments are announced, and that is the basic problem with reconstruction. It is normal, I agree, that every government needs to be refreshed from time to time, as the prime minister says, people change, jobs change, circumstances change, and the solution that seemed perfect two or three years ago in the meantime may lose its glow, but this is not the case. This is not a reconstruction that comes as a refreshment. This is a reconstruction because the ministers are on their way to trial. One of them has already been held in Remitance, and some of them may be waiting for it. And that's why it's not a normal reconstruction, and that's why we're saying that in these circumstances the only reasonable move would be for that reconstruction to take place in the elections, so let's see what the citizens think about everything. Until that happens, we stay on one P.R. move and nothing else. There's a rotten fish left in the trunk of a car for days in the sun. That no scented fighter can freshen up. The prime minister announced the reconstruction, but when it will really come to it and what it will look like we don't really know. What's he waiting for? If the DORH is waiting to see where and where and to whom all investigations are going, then the government under quotes is refreshed. Maybe no one wants to be a minister and that's possible. Today, information has surfaced that people are massively refusing Prime Minister Plenkovic's bid to join his team. It'll come out of that old joke that eventually it'll be enough to put on a suit, walk around Mark's square, and maybe they'll take you as a minister. Maybe the Prime Minister's afraid of his own decisions, his own judgments, and that's possible. His human radar obviously needs one serious reconstruction. It didn't exactly show how time goes that way from worse to worse. Every next choice is even worse than the last one. I think former Minister Horvat at home is banging his head against the wall and wondering who God I've been replaced with. Fighting corruption is a good thing and, of course, ministers who are on such suspicions should be replaced, but this is already getting ridiculous. From the government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has left a lot of ministers because of such suspicions or accusations. It would be time to admit that it is no longer sustainable. To select the frames is obviously wrong and it's time to find a completely new solution. This great anxiety about the things that happen is being overrun and in the way that we communicate in our policy. Regardless of all the political differences between us, the disagreements and grudges that each other has, we should be able to maintain at least the basic level of polite conversation. There was another sad day in the assembly yesterday. On the subject that was important and which was to be seriously discussed, we again had a series of personal insults and attacks that had absolutely nothing to do with the subject or with personal respect. Who went to school, who should be ashamed to walk on the road, those aren't the things we should be talking about. I understand that someone may have the impression that they're working hard and doing well, and that nobody else appreciates it, and they all just attack, but that's our job. And if you think someone else is communicating below the level in a way that is inappropriate, then the last thing you should do is become the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103060	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the honourable representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The pictures that come from Ukraine these days and the last few weeks are really terrible. The horrors of war in Ukraine are probably at the worst possible level, at the worst possible intensity and remind me of the injuries that Croatia suffered in the Homeland War. Because, yes, colleagues and colleagues after 24.2. this year, nothing is the same. The international order is no longer the same, the old alliances are no longer the same, supply chains are no longer the same. The internationally established rules of conduct, for example, are so conditionally not the same. And in such a situation, I think we must remain committed to helping Ukraine. And once again from this pay phone I would like to say that we from the Social Democrats Club support the government in all efforts to help Ukraine either morally, or humanitarianally, or actively. All the help is welcome. In such an atmosphere of colleagues and colleagues on April 12th this year came the appeal of Deputy Mayor Odessa, who prays to Croatian institutions, the Croatian public for help. It is again talking about the commitment of the Ukrainians to defend their country, but it says that cities suffer and reminds us of the horrors of Kiev, Herson, Buche, Irpin, Kramator and many other unnamed cities in which lives under the attack of the aggressor have been lost by civilians, women, children, old people, powerless, unarmed people. They must be threatening world order or Russian peace. But as I noticed my colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately Deputy Mayor Sergei Titjukin did not receive an answer to his letter. That's why I'm my colleagues and colleagues today, where I said that someone who has lived through the horrors of war and who knows what it means to be exposed to aggression with a very similar aggressor, with an aggressor that has a very similar rhetoric, with an aggressor whose behavior absolutely reminds you of what's going on in Ukraine can have empathy towards what his city and his country are going through. But it's not enough just to respond to letters from colleagues and colleagues, it's not enough just to show empathy. I'd like to tell you and order from this place, that we all need to engage in support of Ukraine in accordance with our affinities and possibilities. No one has the right to remain neutral, especially not my colleagues and colleagues, because we suffered from the neutrality of others who turned their heads when our country was under aggression. Sam Dante said in his Divine Comedy that the darkest places in hell are reserved for those who are neutral in a time of moral crisis. If this isn't a big moral crisis and every other crisis, then I don't know what it is. In my post as president of the Committee on European Affairs, but also as representative of the Croatian Parliament, I wrote to the presidents of the EU institutions, I wrote to the presidents of political groups within the European Parliament, I wrote to our prime minister, and all in my desire to give Ukraine candidate country status because it is a symbolic act and a clear message that one day we see Ukraine in our European family. I also wrote to many mayors and commissioners and I am glad that some of them accepted my initiative and pointed out Ukrainian flags in the appropriate places as a symbolic act of support again. First of all, my hometown of Osijek, which has housed many refugees. But colleagues and colleagues aren't enough that I'm the only one involved, and it's not enough that only a few colleagues and colleagues and representatives are involved. I call upon you all to work in accordance with our capabilities, to engage theaffinities in support of Ukraine, and we can engage in various ways from humanitarian, active, advocacy to someone else. The Embassy of Ukraine in the Republic of Croatia has published a list of humanitarian organisations that help Ukraine where you can pay the amounts if you want to. You can house Ukrainian refugees, help the Red Cross, or you can write like me to the institutions of the EU and the Republic of Croatia to be more determined and responsible in support of Ukraine because it is our moral obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103105	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative Ante Kujundzic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103106	Thank you, Chairman. For the past six months, I've talked twice about a problem that I'm going to touch today, and I certainly won't stop there. It is an extremely poor condition in which Croatian car schools are located. The specific driving and teaching training on the rules in question has been largely reduced to the old ones as much as the money of so much music, and this all started with the National Security Committee meeting in 2018 when, despite the fact that the profession was saying one thing, the members of the National Security Committee have actually proposed to quantify an economically profitable and sustainable minimum cost of auto-school cost. Under the cover of opening the market and creating a form of competitiveness, we were compared to Germany, France, Belgium, but only by a price-free number of hours from driving, lectures, fuel prices, nothing we say is really relevant because if we took the relevant facts we would come to the conclusion that the prices of auto-school services in the Republic of Croatia are generally extremely low, not only compared with EU members but also with our neighbouring countries, so Slovenia and BiH. What is the result of obtaining an economically minimally cost-effective price? We have a situation where all those who are trying to pay the state what the state expects them to do, so high taxes, those who try to be professional, honest and quality are forced to black people to live with as high minuses as there are those who pay absolutely nothing on the other hand and consciously touch the bottom with accumulated debts closing their car school then open a new one to one of the family members and continue on their good old practice. If we take into account that today, before all these gatherings, the lowest cost of an hour's drive was about 160 kuna, if the cost of the class is somewhere around 30 kuna and we multiply all of that by the legally prescribed number of hours, we'll get to a very clear account. But then, both on the other hand and on one of the indicators of the decay of this system in the beginning of 2018, which are specific action prices that we can find on the different websites of different auto schools, where even a health check that can't possibly be gratis is offered in certain countries. But here's some health care, what kind of medical examination is behind the gratis of a medical examination I think someone in this country should ask themselves. We do not need to repeat the pay levels that driving instructors and other professional staff receive in Croatia today in auto-schools. It's about wages that are far below one pay that we can put into the category of dignity pay for workers. The most frequent instructors in auto-schools at the scheduled 40 hours a week drive over 50 auto-schools with predatory prices directly impose unfairly and unjustly low prices and conditions, e.g. as I said I'd already mentioned a free health check. Who's in the interest of auto-schools to go with pretty dumping prices and stay on the market? That's the first question anyone in this country needs to ask themselves. Another reading that someone needs to set up for themselves is, are all car bills fiscalized? Is there any payoff on the hands outside the reported amount? What Croatia certainly can and should do under emergency is to protect prices in auto-schools or in individual protection of the minimum economic cost of teaching and driving, or on the other hand to protect the entire activity of auto-schools as a unique area of particular public interest and to prevent any specific business entity from engaged in any other activity with auto-school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103205	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, the respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103206	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable couple of MPs. Today, an open letter has been published by the Director of REGEA, Minister Ćorić, who aims to mobilise investments in the increased use of renewable energy sources by citizens. So it's about investing in the development of civil energy, which is the topic we talked about many times before the attack on Ukraine intensified the energy crisis. For years, it has been clear that the climate crisis has been seeking a rapid and energetic response from the global community, and energy transformation and transition to renewable energy sources are important components of the process. The increase in energy prices, the invasion of Ukraine has only intensified the need to rapidly reduce imports and use fossil fuels. The proposals of Julia Domca, which we agree with and which we support, relate to the release of VAT from small power plants, and then support the proposal for permanent open competitions to co-finance citizens with a unique rate of co-financing of investments in solar power plants up to 25% instead of current competitions which, as you know, were held very occasionally, very irregularly and on the principle of the fastest finger. In this regard, we believe that, in addition to EU funds, the revenue achieved through the burdens on fossil fuels should necessarily be used as a source of funding for this subsidy. Then, we agree that it is necessary to establish a financial mechanism for investing in solar power plants available to citizens in the form of favourable loans with a low interest rate of 1 to 2%, which would, in addition to the above mentioned VAT exemption and co-financing, allow the closure of the financial structure of such an investment in its own solar power plant for the vast majority of citizens and their households. With the proposal to deregulation the electricity price, which should aim at equating the price of electricity for all categories of consumers, we disagree, so we believe that the price for citizens should remain regulated. In addition, we add that it is necessary to enable simpler joint investments of citizens through the energy community, first of all to abolish the bad legal solutions that the energy communities limit to the same low voltage trafostation, so we need to enable mergers outside the low voltage networks. When rebuilding the earthquakes affected areas if ever the construction of these replacement facilities should be envisaged to install and subsidise heat pumps, and not so far natural gas, therefore natural gas is necessary in process facilities such as Petrochemy, but it is insane to subsidise the destruction of therefore valuable hydrocarbons for heating such as insanely subsidising gas boilers that have been done for years. In addition, it is extremely important to facilitate self-supply consumers to return energy to the network, that all civil energy producers surplus or all network, all, all the energy that remains to be sold to HEP, and that the price remains as regulated as it has so far for citizens, because so far it has not been directly detimizing people to sell their energy and to produce it and to sell it to HEP. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Electricity Market Act, which absolutely does not support and stimulate therefore civil energy, as is necessary and to change the paradigm and general energy transition strategy, which is primarily focused on large players and investment schemes such as Krš-Paden or schemes where some people who do not actually have investment capital serve only as a front for covered investors. It is also important to say that holders of these changes and energy transitions should be primarily states, but also regional and local self-government that could thus achieve huge savings and reduce carbon footprints, through intensive solarisation of all public facilities with public emphasis on how much savings they have achieved, through active information from citizens in order to encourage them to self-salarise and through the establishment of certain advisory points so that once citizens have a project or ownership list, they can manage the administration as quickly and easily as possible, and all that they need to be solarised themselves. In addition, all new constructions should at least have economic uses of solar plants and must have a certain degree of energy efficiency. I am proud to point out that Zagreb has stepped bravely and vigorously in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103285	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Željko Sačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u103286	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, colleagues of both colleagues and the Croatian public. Here we were by who knows which times surprised by yesterday's concessions, by the sharp appearances of our executive heads, the representative government. These were canonads of mutual insults both by the President of the Republic of Mr Milanovic towards Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and the entire organisation of political and executive authorities on the other hand and even more strongly by the Prime Minister Plenkovic towards Pantovic, according to the president's office, according to the president himself, according to the president of the Republic of Milanovic. In the middle, the reasons are now and irrelevant, the causes are irrelevant and I, as a parliamentary representative, have absolutely no legitimacy, no desire, no need to arbitration in these infertile and barren disputes, but as a parliamentary representative, I am obliged to point out that the legal system is suffering us, that there are no terribly important levers of the executive authority in particular that need to ensure the Croatian national interests both towards the internal territory of the Republic of Croatia in the internal politics and, more importantly, outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the international stage because it has now been proven and surfaced yesterday and today that our two executive authorities that have shared their powers after the death of President Tudjman, following the arrival of the third-country government under the leadership of the late President Racin, and Mesic when a new constitutional framework for the operation of our executive authority from the presidential system came into the country. some hybrid half-presidential system that could have worked. We have seen approximately as much acceptable to both the domestic and international public if the political options and authorities in the assembly and the executive power have in some way co-habitated under certain circumstances with this authority with the elected representative of this president of the Republic of Croatia. This worked in a certain way in relatively expected frameworks when President Mesic was there, and in the assembly, the majority who was then President Josipovic, followed by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. However, now that so much tightened political options and personal, obviously personal animosities, the attributes of animosities between President Milanovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic have come to this extent that the institutions, in fact yesterday we heard from both President Milanovic and President Plenkovic's mouth, have been blocked, our system of foreign policy, our ambassadors are not rotating to the extent to which it was necessary and expected, our system where they share those powers means that in the Ministry of Defence does not work in the way that is expected, our system in international representation towards, in the EU, in NATO, in the organisation of the UN and many other organisations also does not work, there is no cooperation, there is no, our system at national security, we heard yesterday is not functioning. The National Security Council for the War in Ukraine has been convened, it has not yet met. So as Croatian sovereigns, we call on all relevant factors in this Croatian state, all members of the Croatian academic community, all other moral and all other scientific institutions to join the proposal to resolve the new constitutional legal framework so that we are not Croats, Croatian people hostages of conflict, personal animosities between President Milanovic and President Plenkovic, this must be overcome, we must find a framework that Personal animosities are no reason [[Intruder: Thank you.]] there is no reason why the state of Croatia does not function. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104340	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs, please colleague Vukas, please calm down so we can begin our work. Today's first item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, Second Reading, P.Z. the number 182 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172 in relation to Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. Before I give my word to the Honored Minister of Agriculture, we have several requests for a break. First in line, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104341	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS where we would like to emphasise once again a few facts. The first fact that this amendment is an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land and that it is an extremely important and important law. Secondly, it is a law that tries to define how to manage the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The experiences we have had so far have shown that we have nothing to boast about, that land has not been used in many cases in the way it was assigned, it has not been used according to the programs that have been established and not been used or left unused or what has been done with it is not somehow to praise and praise the good idea that was. This law should allow it to change. I have been taught that when you enter some kind of reform or some kind of process that is good, those processes in which everyone is a little dissatisfied because if everyone is very satisfied, then you have some who are very dissatisfied, but that the right balance is that they are all a little dissatisfied. But I'm afraid that with regard to this law and what we have is that these dissatisfactions are very large, and it took a lot more to listen to the profession, a lot more to listen to what was said from the field because it's an interest for all of us together to get a quality bill that will be enforceable. You have laws that sound good on paper, but in reality, there are problems. Some of the questions that were defined in the first reading were answered by the Proposer. Some things between the first and second reading have changed, but we appreciate that it's not enough, and that's why they're kind of announcing amendments, and I guess that there will be a will and a proposal to some of these amendments and accept. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104342	Thank you very much. The break is approved. Now it's time for a fellow wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104343	Thank you, Mr. President. Please, I apologize, thank you, I thank the President, so on behalf of the Representatives' Club For a fair Croatia I also request a break of at least 10 minutes. So today we are talking about perhaps the most important law that creates the future of the Croatian village, which is in very serious trouble, but here the ruling with this proposal has managed to cause a very large number of emotions on the ground, mostly fear. The fear of our OPGs that or not to reach land means that they must move from their rural space and seek the future across the EU and fear among those who have land, and they are afraid that they will not be able to keep it and will not be able to continue their agricultural production. What we've been looking for in the first place is a revision of the current state-owned land. However, this proposal does not really foresee it. Why do I consider that the most important thing? Mostly because the State Audit Office itself said that although the ministry had an obligation to establish a register of current land availability and the collection of current availability, the ministry did not do so. On the other hand, you have a situation where, on the basis of false economic programmes 10 or 15 years ago, certain competitors received land, entered the property, never met these economic programmes, and today they have the right to this proposal at a new 20 points that will give them a head start compared to all the others who have not lied, who have not worked fairly and who have not been able to reach state land. At the end of the day, I ask a question, and who says that the law of 2018 is no good when no single hectare is granted under that law, and no farmer is ever introduced into possession under that law? Why do we claim Is that a bad law? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104344	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, I'm asking for a 10-minute break to further consult, but also to highlight some things. Yes, there are amendments, other readings, amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land that have some good things and where some of our suggestions and suggestions have been adopted, there is something that is not, and I will discuss it more in the debate itself. What made us happy and still rejoiced is Article 44 that item 4 of these amendments where there is a ban on the formation of particles less than one hectare. And that's okay, it's a small but important step and a first step towards trying to stop illegal construction. It means a lot to us in Istria, and I believe it all over the coast. There is only one doubt, I hope that by the end of the debate, or at least until the vote, we will be able to resolve it, and that is whether it also applies to private agricultural land. We have various interpretations. We need to explain a little bit better. In fact, the law is on agricultural land, but it's practically more than 90% of that in state agricultural land. We will propose an amendment, so unless our proposing or ruling majority is adopted that if it is correct we will surely support it only to further clarify and remove any misunderstandings that might occur on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104346	The apartment is approved. Now the demands will be explained by counterpart Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104347	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. I also request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to further consult on this law and to highlight some other issues. Namely, our agriculture, which is not a secret, is not in great shape, rural space even less. And that is why this law should be the main document to fight further devastation and rural space, but also to improve our agricultural production that is never more important, especially now in times when the raging war in Ukraine, when food chains are supplying them, and how much more we need to rely on our own production, and in many things when we talk about food, we are not still self-sufficient. It is no secret that our agricultural land, so above all, was not properly available, that part of the agricultural land was not used, that it was not processed, that it was not used, in fact if I were to sum up the disastrously we had this strategic resource and we think that it would give extra attention to the adoption of this law, that it would not even be a bad idea and put it into third reading because some amendments had already been announced, it would still be safe, but I think that the third reading would make a significant contribution to having one enforceable law, first of all, which will be as fair as possible and which will help our rural space and our agricultural production. Also, Mr. President, I don't know how politically legitimate it is that politically walking dead people are all ministers in the government until the reconstruction is defended by such an important document.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104348	We're all dead in a certain way, so let them do their job while they have a mandate. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104349	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am looking for a break in order to consult once again on the terrible dissatisfaction that the government has not only in our club but also among those most concerned by this law, which are farmers related to the draft of these laws. These are the third amendments to the law of 2018. and we expected a lot from him, as much as this inflation is, but even now, the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine has shown that those countries that are poorer, whose income is much lower than the other European countries are going much worse in crisis because energy and food costs are the ones that put them in that, with low incomes in that unfavourable position. And what is crucial at this point, and this is understood by all European countries is to ensure the food and energy independence that may be utopian at the moment, but through this law we can lay sound foundations for Croatian stability when we talk about quality and food security. Unfortunately, this law does not offer this, it offers very unclear criteria that will not prevent the manipulation of state land, further does not offer the necessary measures to encourage the remaining young and family in Slavonia and agriculture. Likewise, there are others and other incentives such as what is crucial, and that is the finalisation of the product, which does not guarantee the basis for this law. We will have more than 20 and some amendments, and I hope that they will come across a positive echo, and that depends greatly on how we set ourselves up under this law, there is still a chance of a change if you're open to amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104350	Thank you. 6th, dear colleague Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to point out once again that agricultural land is our strategic resource for food production, for staying in rural space and for generating employment. In this sense, certainly all the administrative obstacles we have seen, which so far have generated a number of amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, thus creating a problem for farmers and JLS who are in charge of law enforcement, we want to remove this proposal. Also in terms of the agriculture strategy recently adopted by this assembly, the Agricultural Land Act wants to follow the objectives of this strategy to put emphasis on the higher productivity of agricultural production on the generation renewal of Croatian villages and on increasing the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. In this regard, they are also recognised those branches in which they should be particularly invested, and therefore the system of points has been introduced in order to reward these agricultural branches such as livestock production, especially meat and milk production, but also fruit and vegetables production, in which we have additionally rewarded the points and supported the deficit. This law also values small and medium-sized family economies and supports domicileness. This is exactly what we have always said that we want to especially emphasize that people living in the Croatian village and dealing with agriculture would be kept there because they were the real ones who kept the Croatian space and they produced food for us. Inaccurate information is that some of the problems that were in the holding of agricultural land have been ignored, just last year the Ministry of Agriculture launched a revision of the economic programmes on our initiative, the analysis of 246 contracts has been carried out, those who did not stick to the economic programmes will not be able to achieve points on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104352	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104353	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club. To sum up, the price of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is the lowest today compared to the EU, the standard purchasing power of Croatian citizens relative to the EU is not the lowest with Bulgaria, the commission has not been implemented, the restructuring of agricultural production is not, the solution of the landowners of the catastra is not and can still be all I have read the reasons why you asked for a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners 10 years ago and have promised the EU to resolve it. Not one thing, not one thing you've solved. And this whole law is about to be prepared to adjust so that the land can be sold to foreigners. Now I'm asking you. Which Croatian farmer will buy when the standard purchasing power of someone from the EU is 10 times bigger than Croatian farmers, when the hectare of agricultural land in Croatia on average costs 24,000 kuna and in the Netherlands 560,000 kuna. What did you do? And don't be angry when I ask who you work for when you work like this because you don't work for Croatian farmers. He according to all the parameters that can be measured that did not flossule from your work had no use, whether you were, was autopilot in your place it doesn't matter anyway, don't be angry. And I don't care how you solve the problem, you've led to this. Go lobby in the EU, do whatever you want, but you have no right to do this because this is death for Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104354	Thank you. The break is approved. Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104355	Thank you, Your Honor. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of HSS and RF related to the Agricultural Land Act which is already difficult to count by which times it changes and brings. After 31 years, we haven't solved the problem of agricultural land, we don't have energy, we have no food and all of those stakeholders that have affected this over the past 30 years have, unfortunately, affected the adoption today. on the construction of agricultural land, the Law on Agricultural State Land. State agricultural land is the basic wealth of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, is subject to various influences such as the total economy that has been destroyed in the Republic of Croatia over the past 30 years. We've also created new tycoons over the past 30 years that have destroyed existing agricultural industrial combinations. I remember the time when Franjo Tudjman was alive when certain HDZ powers on the ground, in the birts assigned the rights to some people on agricultural land, some today kept the right and used this agricultural land, and some started everything in this direction to direct their influence and their money in that the entire agricultural policy was headed towards achieving their, building their great empires, their large estates, so today we have many people who created not even living in, where in these parts of the people from rural space they simply went away because they can't get land for their family holding, and these emperors paid people so little that people went to Ireland, Germany and across Europe with bread. My dilemma is, will this law ever move anything on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104356	The apartment is approved. If we have any more interested, if we don't get back to work at 10 o'clock and 5 minutes. [[It's 9:50 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.06 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I call on the now respected Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, to present the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104358	Thank you very much, well-respected President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys special protection of the Republic of Croatia. Management of these non-renewable and limited natural resources is a cornerstone of agricultural production, and is extremely important for the sustainability and development of rural areas such as the vast majority in the Republic of Croatia. The agricultural land law of 2018 is in force. whose amendments and additions are proposed for faster implementation, administrative discharge, removal of certain doubts related to the new Agriculture Strategy, and in order to make the largest area of agricultural land available to Croatian farmers available in the short term for reasons of legal and investment security in the function of the development of agricultural production, the achievement of the agriculture strategy recently adopted and the implementation of the Strategic National Plan submitted to the European Commission within the legal time limit for approval. The main objective of this law is therefore to make it easier to apply, shorten and speed up land availability procedures, remove some of the observed difficulties in the implementation process, and in particular to the observations relating to the obligation of the maximum area and to the criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder in public leases. A programme solution for applying to a public tender for the lease and sale of state-owned agricultural land will also be established for the implementation of the law. The final draft law requires JLS to open public tenders for the lease of free agricultural land and land used without any legal basis within 3 months of obtaining consent to the agricultural land available to the State. It is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture assumes the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, as well as the means of availability which would be the income of JLS if JLS does not adopt the programme and/or open a public tender within the time limit prescribed by law or does not implement this law. It shall be arranged to determine the maximum area for the lease that is no longer prescribed as a commitment in the programme but is possible in the context of a public tender. Changes and shortens the procedure for the implementation of a public tender for the lease and sale of land owned by the State, the possibility of an electronic execution of a public tender for the lease is introduced. The lease period shall be changed in a way that the lease is given at 25.g. For permanent or multi-annual plantations, i.e. 15 years. for other types of production, given the expected return on investments which vary depending on production and is generally the longest for permanent plantation. A credit rating system is prescribed to identify the most favourable bidder in public lease tenders, with priority being achieved by the highest number of points of 100, with the highest number of points being made by the bidders who carry out agricultural activity on a country-owned agricultural land in line with the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, in particular in view of insufficient cultures or production in the balance sheet. Also, according to previous owners, it is clearly prescribed that those who have fulfilled the economic programme and all other obligations are also valued through residence, if it is a natural person or seats, if it is a legal person, youth, taking into account the need for generational renewal of the Croatian agricultural holding and others, and other criteria, in particular organic agricultural production, the status of Croatian defenders, association with producer organisations, and in the final proposal of the law, also the implementation of agricultural production and preservation of biodiversity through the property and care of indigenous Croatian original breeds. It is prescribed that in a public tender for sale the advantage comes true, henceforth the owner and owner of land bordering the land which is the subject of a public tender for the purpose and rest of the people in the Croatian village, but also the rounding of agricultural areas. Provisions on the temporary use of agricultural land owned by the State are deleted because they were not used correctly, as they were rarely a reason to delay competitions and because they also introduced investment and legal uncertainty for farmers. A direct contract for cadastral particles which can only be accessed through land owned by the applicant for rounding purposes shall be added, and the area of the cadastral particle to be sold by such a direct contract shall be less than the area of land owned by the applicant. The competent authority for the finding of a replacement agricultural land in the recovery proceedings shall be required under the Property Compensation Act taken up during the Yugoslav communist rule, the obligation and delivery period shall be laid down for those who did not have it as a liability in previous periods or for those who, for different reasons, have it in the archives of older 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. Lost. Additional measures are also prescribed to control the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Despite the field controls carried out by the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, the inclusion of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food in the control of soil and control of the implementation of agritechnical measures is envisaged because it is one of our most valuable resources to be kept for the future. Additional administrative control of the implementation of economic programmes by the Ministry of Agriculture and the units of local self-government is being introduced, infringement provisions are prescribed for the unauthorized use of state-owned agricultural land and for the failure to provide an annual report on the implementation of the economic programme because the audits we carried out last year have been found to be of frequent irregular behaviour. In the public space, the most controversy triggered a provision on the score of certain criteria for the identification of the most favourable bidder in public procurement for the lease of agricultural land owned by the state, and following the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, several meetings and discussions were held with representatives of institutions and the interested public on this topic in order to produce as high as possible rules, and the following changes were made in the final draft of the law: points for the production of vegetables and the production of sugar beet on at least 25% of total areas of plant production, given the insufficient balance in the Republic of Croatia and the possibility of connection with processors. In the case of residence criteria and the offerer's seat, a point was added for production facilities in the area of the unit of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb which opened a public tender for the bidder whose agriculture is the primary activity. The ecological breeding criteria also include points for the cultivation of indigenous breeds. The points for the OPG bearer are also added, i.e. they existed before, but instead of 15 points, according to the remarks we heard here in the first reading are now predicted 20 points. The employment criteria added points for members of producer organisations to further motivate our farmers to join, and a new criterion was added to the share of direct payments in the total incomes of 5 years of agriculture and which sought to reward those who treated the good lord and made good income from clean agriculture. In doing so, this share is separated from the criteria of previous ownership, as it is different criteria, and in line with the remarks we heard in the first reading. Finally, according to the first reading, the final proposal for a law stipulates that all areas of agricultural land owned by a single natural or legal person are included in the maximum area and that the maximum lease in agricultural land leases owned by a country is limited to a double initial lease. The provisions on changing the use of agricultural land have also been supplemented, and it is prescribed that independent buildings of solar power plants cannot be built on particularly valuable agricultural land and that construction in entrepreneurship zones established by local self-government units is not subject to compensation for change of purpose in order to motivate and reward the economic activity needed and planned in entrepreneurship zones and reduce the cost of burden. Compared to the first reading, the final bill prescribed that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first for agricultural land sold in the Republic of Croatia. And in the following debate today, we have a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land which includes a large number of remarks and proposals made in the first reading of the law on boards and plenary session of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104359	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. Now we'll start with the replicas. First of all, she's a colleague of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104360	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Ministry of Agriculture is one of three ministries whose work in 2020 was held by the State Audit Office, and the ministry received a conditional opinion. So one of the biggest objections to me is scandalous that the ministry did not form a record of the availability of agricultural land. So you don't know who's using it, at which price it's priced, and whether it's ultimately charged. So in the field, we know there's a mess going on, so then we have a situation where some of us use state land, some of the lucky ones who managed to get it for 170 kn per hectare or 200, 250 kuna per hectare. While you have these others who pay as much as two and a half thousand kuna for a hectare, these are the most common cattlemen. They make milk for two kunas. How, then, do you even form a system that is transparent, in which it is visible who uses land and at what cost if only the ministry does not have a register or record? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104361	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104362	I appreciate the question. So, the State Review of 33 observations that she had two years ago now noticed 4. In doing so, this ministry made a detailed internal audit before the State Audit. And also in communication with the State Audit requested an additional review of all documents relating to agricultural land in order to improve the management of the agricultural land system. I'll repeat, two years before 33 results, four results for 2020. They've concluded that we've made remarkable progress. We had, of course, carried out on our own before the State Audit audit that was never carried out on all contracts greater than 50 ha. We've sent out requests for an obvious, notification to local self-government units, established intensive co-operation with the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104363	Thank you. Comrade Zmaic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104364	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Minister Vukkovic, you have made great efforts to make changes and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land. You had a lot of understanding, hearing and a lot of nerve for all stakeholders who participated in the creation of these changes and additions and, all in order to include both livestock and warfare and breeding. A real thinker must be clear that not all stakeholders can be satisfied as well as everything they want and requirements to be realized. This government of the Republic of Croatia has made a major step towards agriculture, whether someone will admit it or not, but that's what they say and point out the facts, so if you can comment on it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104365	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104366	Agricultural production is, of course, one of the most difficult and valuable human activities, the one that first reformed the world, which, based on what was done in the rural area, actually enabled cities to be created. We must never forget that. Agricultural production in Croatia in recent years, according to all statistics, is making progress but we still have structural challenges that are particularly related to livestock production and also to permanent plantations in view of major climate change. Both investment measures and legal regulations and the creation of strategic and strategic documents as well as expedient interventions, and we had 15 of them, most of which were approved by the commission in these difficult times, we will continue to work to support Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104367	Comrade Kolarek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104368	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, the proposal for a new Agricultural Land Act has been extremely demanding and took a long and long time to listen to many stakeholders in the process. What I'm curious about is the proposal of this law fairer and that they can equally compete for the lease or for the purchase of agricultural land by small, medium and large agricultural producers? It has always been a subject on which many laws and laws have been broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104370	I appreciate the question. In line with the analysis carried out in the preparation of the strategy, according to our consultations and structural dialogue with all stakeholders in the agriculture sector, the European Commission is also concerned with redistributing and enabling greater security and income to small agricultural producers and generational renewal is one of the most important issues of the Croatian village, and this law values this. However, in order not to do wrong, to reconcile even greater fairness and insurance of income for small farmers, but also to enable the development of those who hire and where a large part of Croatian agricultural production begins, we have introduced a point. There is no better way than to determine the weight of individual strategic goals in dialogue with everyone and to stick it in a transparent manner and publish it in the ranking list. There's no better way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104371	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104372	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm going to tell you a story from the Istrian County that unfortunately doesn't have a happy ending. It is said that the Istrian farmer decided to buy the neighbouring parcel for the rounding of his OPG, agreed on a purchase price of 4 euros in kuna equivalent, the public notary did its job, after a month and a half of tax returns a solution saying that the value of the plot is 10 euros in kuna equivalent and that he must pay for it. I don't even have to tell you his awkward surprise that came after that. I appeal to you, together with the Minister of Finance, to find a solution that the Istrian farmer would not feel discriminated against in the purchase of agricultural land for its products and production. Well, I hope the story ends happily with your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104373	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104374	Thank you very much. It's very difficult to comment on any individual case right now, but I believe you know we're telling the truth when we say we're going to commit ourselves to each individual case. In this respect, I cannot comment on the rules applicable to the assessment of market value, in particular because it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but I can confirm that we will look for information on the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104375	Comrade Shimpraga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104376	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, what will happen to farmers whose lease or temporary use contracts expire after the entry into force of this bill because we see that this bill can take all of them until the conclusion of the contract and for up to a year until the commission introduces them into possession, and then how and in what way will the paying agency delete them, will they be able to submit a request and what message can we deliver to those people who have such problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104377	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104378	Thank you very much for asking. So I think that, that the provision on the inability to conclude a contract on, temporary lease contracts, that it is not new, that it is not new, that it is in the content of the bill all the time and I really think that everyone had time to conduct the tenders, especially in areas where it points out that it was the responsibility of the units of local self-government. However, we understand the need, as in any case so far, the Ministry of Agriculture will work together with units of local self-government, but also some other authorities of the state administration will find a solution for those farmers who are not guilty of their own doing so, and they are carrying out agricultural production on agricultural land and using this land on the basis of a previous public tender or temporary use contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104379	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104380	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, I understand the law's intensities to prevent further parcelation, vaccination and depletion of agricultural land in Croatia, and I welcome that. However, this is the wording of the article. 44. would disable, for example, on Croatian islands and across the country where small areas of agricultural particles are their encircling because it is said that, in this article, it is forbidden to inform particles less than 10 thousand meters or one hectare, and in that sense we will support the amendment that will go after it to form particles less than one hectare if particles are combined, for example, 2500 meters, and in this way, there is a rounding of agricultural land, and it should be taken into account, for example, that in Dalmatia, islands, and throughout Croatia are already particles less than one hectare, so when the inheritance occurs, it would create a really big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104381	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104382	Thank you very much. This reflection of the inquiry is also on the trail and debates held on the Committee on Agriculture HS. As always, this ministry and the government will consider all proposals that improve the strategic intention and strategic interest, make it more precise and accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104383	Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104384	Dear Minister, in your opening statement, you said that agricultural land deserves the protection of the Republic of Croatia, or I assume your resolution ministry. So, in your moratorium that you have sent or requested a moratorium, you have set certain criteria, such as cadastre, comassation or soil circulation, improving the terms of the tenants, so all of this has been stated, but nothing has been done, so I'm just interested in how you think to protect agricultural land, and I'm not asking you to provoke you, but for the reason that something that we already see is happening that foreigners are buying our land. If you don't understand, you can now see that the Hungarians have taken over Forten, somewhere around 40,000 hectares, so that means other than the energy system we now have Hungarianization and agricultural land and supply chain. So here's a straight answer to how we're gonna protect our land if you haven't done it in the last 10 years.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104385	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104386	Thank you very much for asking, so I'll agree that we should always try harder. As far as moratories are concerned, this Ministry of Agriculture has managed to proceed to an additional 3rd year. which is the maximum time limit in line with the EU acquis. This law highlighted the strategic importance of Croatian agricultural land and the proposal for a provision on the distribution and proposed benchmarks, as well as a transparent score that no one can influence, as well as a proposal for provisions relating to the right to first purchase, also restricting the setting of solars on high value agricultural land as independent buildings and many other provisions. The commission is governed first by the Cooperation Act, which previously passed all of the European Commission's remarks, resulted from NPOO funds and we have joined the implementation, the first calls for expression of interest were also published.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104387	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104388	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. So here is the debate in the first and second readings that clearly shows that so far the law has had shortcomings. that it was in a sufficient part inexecutable and that it slowed the availability of agricultural land, so all the objections that were made in the debates, and I will stress only some of the points which included both Croatian defenders and women and youth and domicillability and everything that was really needed on the ground also covered land which had not been legally solved, so it will be possible to give it to the 5th year. the lease as well as the double price from the initial price is defined through this law. These are all things that will allow for faster, more efficient and more land to be processed and placed in the full function of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104389	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104390	Thank you very much for your comments. I would say, however, that the existing law has made it very easy for us to now implement and focus on strategic criteria at the time of the controlled assignment because the largest number of JLS has delivered programmes because it has contributed to the arrangement and that as far as the agricultural land register is concerned, it will be finished within 2 months precisely because we will receive all the information we haven't been able to obtain from some JLS in a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104391	Here you go, pal Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104392	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Surely one of the laws that was not easy at all, so we saw it in the first reading and in the second reading to reconcile all those whose country of life means it is, as you said in the opening statement, the most valuable resource. Art. 18 is certainly the most important thing in this law, there's a way we're going to score and value what people do in agriculture. What I think is good and will help local self-government leaders to go all electronically this time, based on the criteria described in Art. The 18th will be much easier and that we extended their time from 3 months to 6 months to start implementing this law. President Petir said that this is certainly the second most important law in the strategy, and I hope that the implementation will be just as good as we read it the first time and the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104393	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104394	Thank you very much. Since this exposure also applies to implementation, I would take the opportunity to take the opportunity to respond to JLS in the implementation so far. Of course it's incorrect not even a square of land was assigned. We received 209 notices about the publication of competitions and slightly more than 100 results of competitions, and issued 85 full or partial consents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104395	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, a lot of newspapers are passing this law. The aim is to remove administrative barriers, but also to support those branches in agriculture, those sectors where we feel a deficit in order to pursue this goal of self-sufficiency and, of course, put emphasis on small, medium-sized domicile economies and young farmers. But we will all agree to be effective in law enforcement we need a sort of clean start. The fact is, there were some who were hunting in a blur. For this reason, there was also an initiative towards you which you last year and accepted along with the State Inspectorate, launched a review of the economic programmes. 246 contracts have been reviewed. It has been established that there are those who have failed to comply with the economic programmes, that there are those economic programs that have disappeared without a trace. Can you tell us whether those who don't have economic programs, didn't hold them with points or didn't want to make it clear again?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104397	Thank you very much for asking. The Ministry of Agriculture asked the State Inspectorate in March 2021 to revise all contracts relating to areas over 50 ha because it is the best sample, it is almost 100,000 ha of the best land. We received a final report at the end of 2021, carried out a series of meetings. After receiving individual solutions and records, we supply them to the units of local self-government, and according to the list, when receiving the list of irregularities, we have asked for indications from all those to whom irregularities apply. In this regard, it should be said that over 250 contracts have seen 50 irregularities in this case one 10 seems complete, in 10 cases it is a complete failure of the economic programme. But the State Inspectorate also made additional checks in the 20th and 20th, and we sent them both to the owners and the tenants who came from these examinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104398	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104399	Thank you. Dear Minister, this is one of the more difficult topics in the Croatian Parliament, a proud knot that has been solved for 30 years, and I'm afraid we won't solve it at last. However, since I communicate with many different groups of people, one of them is the geodetics who are concerned about incompetence, such as Article 44(4), which says that agricultural land outside the geodetic area, outside the construction area cannot be shared or formed by geodetic embodies less than one hectare. They argue that this article of the law will bring a lot of problems into various processes that occur with agricultural land. Whether these are any desert debates or all that they face, it might be better to clarify this article and expand it so that it clearly explains that we do not come into some trouble because of this one hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104400	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104401	I appreciate the question. This ministry has recognised the strategic importance, as well as certain, so here I would not like to say the word manipulation, but also certain types of devastation of agricultural land that want to stop. We need to preserve this portfolio, but with the following comments, of course, we will seriously consider whether this provision can be better and more precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104402	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104403	Thank you. Minister Vukkovic is interested in Fortenova's lease for some data just over 32000 ha and your predecessor has increased the price by 24% annually. I am now interested in Article 31 and in the past law for 25 years it is possible to obtain such a lease. However, it can be extended further to the next 25. Whether this transition is 43% of the ownership of the Hungarian company Indotek Fortenova, whether it means an automatic extension of that concession by 25 years, given that they only have that fraction, with them taking it from the other Russian bank then it will already be 50% with Paul Vujnovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104404	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104405	The change of owner has nothing to do with the duration of the lease and the fulfillment of the lease contract given your question as well as the previous one. I will make it clear that no country has gone to any stranger in this case. On the contrary, it is the Croatian state land, the Croatian state resources that have been leased, the proper use of the company that needs to meet the economic programme, employ the resources, employ the population and, in these two years, all the related companies that have been controlled multiple times by their companies in these two years, precisely because of the 50 ha criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104406	She will now be replicated by her colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104407	Dear Ministers, the new system of points proposed by these amendments and additions to the final bill will not actually contribute to a fairer distribution of agricultural land and problems will arise and further who has a problem with cattle farmers, large owners who employ a certain number of persons or small OPGs. The only solution is, in fact, to put as much agricultural land as possible into function as was actually given to, delegated to responsibility and to the work of local self-government units. But we also have the fact that 90 local self - administrations have not actually announced and brought about a distribution programme for agricultural land today. Have you done an analysis of why it is, which are the reasons, what the ministry will do. Now we have examples that the ministry will take responsibility there where units of local self-government don't do it and why financial resources aren't actually foreseen what the country with the purchased land will be based on first purchases. and what are the long-term plans of the ministry with that country. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104408	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104409	So as for those units of local self-government that have not submitted the programme of availability, the more important thing is that more than half of them who remain do not have state-owned countries that would constitute the available programme, so that is the most important reason. I cannot, of course, agree with the conclusion that it is an unfair system, but certainly if there are more serious arguments, and the arguments that contribute to large companies are complete mistakes. So, in all elements of the score, a small priority is given to micro, small and medium entrepreneurs or OPGs and crafts. The second question is, is it done, can it be done in an even better way, but absolutely in everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104410	Here you go, colleague of Mandaric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104411	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. In fact, I would like to comment on the amendment that went ahead of the Committee on Agriculture and to welcome the initiative that introduces and deal with distribution and seed farming in those countries. We are aware that now because of this situation in Ukraine and Russia's aggression in Ukraine, there are now many questions about food production, agriculture and one of the more important issues now and in this spring seed, whether we have enough seeds and whether we will have enough for the autumn seed. So please comment, information or whatever, how self-sufficient are we as a state in the production of seeds of those major agricultural cultures that are most important to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104412	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104413	Thank you very much for asking. We are nowhere near self-sufficient in the production of seed cultures, they have been falling for many years, production of the most important seed cultures, in particular, so the Ministry of Agriculture can say immediately, seriously consider the proposed amendment of the HS Agriculture Committee. However, we did not stick to this, but we also recently published the first such programme of support for planting first of all seed corn because we see it as the first potential problem in 2023 and then in the smaller amount of other seed cultures that Croatia needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104414	Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104415	Your Honors Minister. Surely these legal solutions will come as aid in certain parts of our agricultural production, primarily farmers, cattle farming, which has been greatly devastated. We started in the EU with cca 160,000 cows of milk, today we have about 100,000 talking alone. However, for other winemakers, for all those involved in warfare is a terrible problem, and if they come into possession, the increase in ownership they simply cannot breathe anymore, for example the price of artificial manure urea last year was 100 kuna, today it is 300 25kg, MPK etc. That we don't talk. I know you're taking care of it for sure, but what do you do, how do you make it easier? They simply can't even repromate these people can't handle the pressure of the crowd. What do you do? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104416	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104417	...here also plainly along with you Assembly deputies share their concerns about the situation in dairy beef which has been such for many years. We have prepared a series of measures from several dairy alliances saying that this is the ministry and this government that they have done more than anyone before, but the problems are still significant. The number of cows of milk or mixed milk and meat breeds today in Croatia is around 135,000, with about 101,000 combined, and slightly more than 33,000 are exclusively dairy breeds, remaining meat to 151 insufficient numbers that we have in total. We have published a support programme to co-finance the supply of artificial fertilisers, which is a total amount of HRK 200 million, although it is considered a modest individual support. We also asked the European Commission for the last council and prepared the declaration supported by 19 countries and we hope for a positive response to further support. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104418	Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. In the first reading, we proposed that, in the case of a calculation, a purely one technical matter, when calculating the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, jurisdiction should be on the administrative body issuing the works for construction, because these bodies have all the information necessary for the determination of the compensation solution, they are just one more in a series of acts that relate, how much I have been able to notice the jurisdiction left to the Management Department for Agriculture, which has to physically obtain all the necessary items and thus needlessly extends the procedure in fact and mixing jurisdiction. Maybe it's a normal sequence in some counties, we have a little problem, so if you can answer it now if you don't check it out so we know if it can be fixed by the vote. At least give jurisdiction to regional self-government, to the counties that they can delegate to which department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104420	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104421	Thank you very much. So our interpretation is that it is in the county and that the county might freely determine what is the internal jurisdiction of the management department, but once again we will see how it is true, it is ours we have already had that inquiry and that is our answer to that question. But here's what we're going to look at...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104422	My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104423	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honors Minister. Dalmatia and agricultural land in Dalmatia has some specificities and different problems than those in Slavonia. You know very well that we have mostly karst land to invest in, for example. The winemaker who rented some 5.6 acres of land had to invest very much to break it up and send his vine. That's, of course, off the lease. So in the Sibenik-Knin County we have an annual income from renting agricultural areas of only 14,000 kunas, it is insufficient to pay the commission, it is insufficient to make an elaborate. Furthermore, we have cliffs and small islands, and here we come into trouble with the booking of marine goods, these little islands, and who also have a potential farmer to plant the capers, they won't be able to talk to the ship tomorrow unless something builds a dock. What can you do? Tell the farmers from our neighborhood? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104424	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104425	First of all, I would like to stress my gratitude for the question. That according to the latest data, we have growth in areas both under vineyards and olives between 8 and 9% for 2020, and for 2021 we still have no final data. This growth is not negligible, and of course we strive better, so we have also announced special competitions relating to investment in these cultures. We'll keep going. We also address the specific ecosystems with a truly such proposal in the framework of the strategic plan for those who make up the heritage of Mediterranean agriculture, which so far did not have the right impulses for development.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104426	And the last replica, colleague of the Voice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104427	Dear Ministers, I have a question for you from farmers from Grazac who are losing millions of dollars because of the inability and sloppyness of the municipal and state authorities. So by 31 December 2021, they had to deliver lease contracts or agreements to the Agricultural Payment Agency in order to continue using agricultural land. However, the lease agreements could not be delivered because Gracac municipality had never adopted a land-based programme or brought it, you asked as a state, the ministry to cancel it, and the settlements could not be concluded because the same municipality of Gracac had not sent data to the municipal state attorney's office or was sending data to only some, and for most of them it did not. It means they're in a stalemate position. My question to you, or what they ask of you, is to answer them in what way this law and state will damage or protect people who are not guilty of their own guilt, but by sloppyness. municipalities and states. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104428	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104429	I appreciate the question. It's not like that. So, from the ARCOD, no one who used to have a contract was wiped out. From the ARCOD these 22,000 hectares of deleted concerns those who have never had a contract, who have started using this land without any prior confirmation of the unit of local self-government, Croatian forests or anyone else. But we understand that we need to find a quick and good solution and carry out a series of meetings. Also, as far as Gracac is concerned, it's not just agricultural land, at least equally significant is forest land and I have to say, without too much going back to the past, that as far as forest land is concerned, it's a terriblely bad decision from '14. And '15. a year that has cost many Croatian farmers and administrations and many others, but we try to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104430	I thank the minister, you can return to your post. We don't have a replica, so now we'll see if the Committee's rapporteurs will take the floor, yes, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, respected colleague Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104431	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ministers with Associates, the report of the Committee is quite long because we discussed this law quite thoroughly and even in two committee sessions so that I direct you if anyone wants to study these 10 pages can do so on the Croatian Assembly page. I would like to present here a brief amendment that the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament has submitted to this law and to stress that of the 6 amendments, 5 of them were unanimously adopted on the board while one was adopted by a majority vote with one vote abstention. Amendment 1 to Article 15(10) to prevent possible abuses, we proposed that all areas of agricultural land be included in the maximum area owned by a single natural or legal person, as well as related natural and legal persons, be used in the area of the unit of local self-government on the basis of all contracts concluded from the date of tendering in accordance with the provisions of the previous Law on Agricultural Land and of this Act. Amendment 2 was submitted on Article 18, it is an article relating to the score, so have a little patience. So, we have proposed these amendments to align the provisions of the final draft law with the priorities and objectives set out in the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with the intention of encouraging generation renewal and stopping the depopulation of rural areas. We have further proposed a score for young farmers who are family farmers or are owners of agricultural crafts so that women who do not enter the category of young farmers are encouraged to deal with agriculture and have recognised their multi-functional role in rural areas. We've also introduced a score for the women of the farmers. Advantage in the exercise of the right to use state agricultural land in the livestock sector has been conditioned in a way that at least 30% of livestock is domestically grown to support domestic production. As a result of the instability in the geopolitical plan and the recognition of the importance of seminary and waste management for food production and security, we have proposed a better positioning of this sector in the rating system. Due to the large number of units of local self-government bordering with a large number of other units of local self-government, we have proposed to favour the domestic farmers who are the holders of agricultural family holdings or owners of agricultural crafts from the area of the unit of local self-government that calls the competition. In order to equate the criteria related to the evaluation of education and experience in agriculture, we have also proposed an evaluation of the medium professional training of persons employed in the agricultural economy and in the agricultural crafts. We also in the category of association and employment have harmonised the rating system, while in the category of organic breeding of indigenous breeds, we have harmonised the number of years with the basis of which the user is entitled to score for the cultivation of indigenous breeds. Amendment 3 refers to Article 39(1), this amendment makes it clear that the areas of agricultural land to which the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first. The first law would apply to areas of agricultural land larger than 10 ha in the continental area and greater than one hectare in the coastal region of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here we deleted the words “neither to form” to allow the binding of small surface cadastral particles for circulation. Amendment 5 refers to Articles 55, paragraphs 5 and 6. With this proposal, we propose to extend the deadline from three months to six months in which units of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb, are obliged to decide on the opening of a public tender for the lease and public tender for the sale of state agricultural land. And Amendment Six, in Article 56, we added a new paragraph 3. If the replacement agricultural land could not be provided on any basis in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, this applies to that land taken away at the time of the communist rule. We propose that the compensation officer may exercise his right to settle for replacement agricultural land in any area of the Republic of Croatia or exercise the right to compensation. When voting on the final draft of the law, the committee voted mostly, 8 votes in favour, 1 with the abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I am using this opportunity once again here to thank everyone for their cooperation, the farmers who have been with us in daily communication, the whole sector, the experts, scientists who have contributed to their ideas and the Ministry of Agriculture on co-operation, of course the members and members of the Committee on Agriculture, because this was an extremely demanding job, so we expect these amendments to come to an open door.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104432	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr. And I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of IDS MPs, respected colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104433	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, Madam Head, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Agricultural Land is a law that certainly has experienced the most changes of all laws in the Croatian Parliament, or new ones have come or have been amended and complemented. However, its most significant element is that it transferred the jurisdiction to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia to municipalities and cities and it was a good thing when it happened. In the drafting of the amendment proposal and the addition of this law, it is respected and this is a fact of a number of objections, a suggestion in the public consultation process which has been very interested in this important law which is good and we believe that this has contributed to the great quality of the proposals of these legal amendments and additions. A series of amendments are proposed to speed up availability by making unnecessary steps to make decisions left out and that is also to be welcomed. In all previous law-making and their amendments and additions, the biggest challenge has always been to define the criteria for selecting the most favourable tenant, as further valorisation of additional groups of farmers clearly shows the direction and priority of the Strategy for the development of agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. We could do a lot more about the strategy, but today I'm going to focus on this proposal to amend and supplement. In determining the most favourable tenant instead of the criteria of exclusion, the system of points is defined which we believe is a much better, comprehensive approach because it respects a number of elements that each applicant has. Everyone will never be happy and satisfied, but we really think that the system of points is fairer. Thus, these amendments to the law are awarded the highest number of points to an existing lease that has obtained a lease contract, which meets the obligations in order to implement the economic programme, which may be the most honest. Further organic producers are valorized, cattle growers of indigenous breeds, and we welcome here that our suggestions have been accepted because we insisted. Priorities have also been retained that further valorise young producers, cattle farmers, milk producers and the most valuable small domestic family holding. What is good and is proposed to digitise the whole process of selecting the most favourable bidder from the very submission of applications, points, to make a choice decision which increases transparency itself, the speed of decision-making. And now what's very important to us IDS, because this is a big problem in Istria, in all of Croatia's Adriatic and actually from Istria they started crying for help. We are pleased to have the HDZ representative Kliman on this subject here in the IDS Assembly. I don't see him now. I've seen him here before so we can try to solve the problem together. I think it's the right way, that there must be no political division, no matter what different worlds. And I thank the minister, the secretary of state and everyone in the ministry for their involvement for recognising the problem of agricultural land abuse and its unlawful re-use and illegal construction of agricultural land facilities. Therefore, the amendments to the laws suggest that it is not possible to extract particles on less than one hectares in the agricultural land production process, since a hectare of agricultural land is a minimum area needed for the agricultural holding to be in the support system for agriculture, and we are daily witnessing the parcel of agricultural land being prepared for wild construction, thus losing agricultural land and degraded space. And he's right about his colleague, Lenart, and he's right about a colleague named Bacic. That article needs to be completed. It needs to be specified. And we from the IDS Club will submit an amendment, to further define some things. For what remains is not sufficiently clear and highlighted is whether the law in question prohibits land parceling less than 1 ha refers only to state or all agricultural land regardless of the owner. It is clear to me that this is the Law on Agricultural Land, but the most important thing in it is that it is logical about state agricultural land, and here with this amendment, we would try to define it a little more clearly, i.e. to clarify it. But in any case we support this step forward, it is still small, but it is still a step forward and should be an example of how to resolve now and other laws. Because there are several laws left to define all those acts, so the Nature Protection Act, laws that regulate works of construction inspection and end up destroying space because I said this in one of the former debates, space with people in Croatia is the most important thing that we have left, and perhaps our greatest responsibility here in Parliament is to preserve it because we are still passing laws. And the next thing I know, it may not be directly related to this law, but it's connected in a moment, so I think it's good to point out. Croatian laws do not provide for the possibility of building on forest land, but unfortunately we and such construction have the lawlessness, so the buildings that are illegally built on forest land, and then legalised, so I am talking about those who are now legally left without the possibility of paying compensation, which is actually amazing and not built on agricultural land but on forest land, and it is necessary to change the Law on Forests as soon as possible to correct this nonsensus. As a matter of fact, illegal builders in the woods are still rewarded, and they should be repeatedly penalized. So, I repeat, it's only about objects that are legalized, about those who are not illegal that's one special story and that now I'm not repeating it here. The end should also be said that such frequent amendments to the law slow down the lending of state agricultural land, each farmer reading the criteria relating to the choice of the most favourable bidder and wanting to prepare and coordinate his holding in order to have a certain advantage or as many points as possible, and for most of the criteria it takes at least three years to have the same, just when the farmer takes advantage of the individual advantage, when trying to make his own economy, the adjustment of the competition changes and the fact that he has prepared for three years no longer gives him any advantage. It is now necessary to bring all regulations, sublaws, into line as soon as possible to rent agricultural land, to improve agriculture, to increase agricultural production, it is necessary to deal with the increasing damage caused by game farming, primarily by wild boars, which in certain areas completely prevents agricultural production. That's what I've talked about more than once, this is really starting to be a very big problem for us, and it doesn't help any more electric shepherds, or repellents, we have big, big problems. Let us hope that these amendments and amendments to the law will be effective and that in two years we will not have to change this law again and make amendments to the supplement or some new one that does not slow down the processes of using agricultural land management. It's more of them and said... the problem since the formation of the Republic of Croatia I don't know what law or amendments and additions of the law are anymore. We're already talking about tens, they're no longer numbers below 10, because we still have a lot of unprocessed abandoned agricultural land, pastures are turning into shingles, forests, less cattle, livestock dying, milk production is decreasing daily, young people don't want to study for agricultural occupations, which best shows how much they see the perspective in agriculture, and that's what the government has to worry about. No one disputes good intentions and desire as well as that certain measures are taken, but if the measures or part of those measures being taken are not effective enough, so something needs to be changed, the system needs to be changed, it needs to be recognised as soon as possible if something is wrong and that changes and needs to be flexible. Food production must be a strategic provision, I believe that we all agree on our policies, touching every single one of our citizens. If we import everything from us, obviously it's no longer worth producing, we'll fall into dependence on imports, the villages will be empty, the citizens will pay for it all dearly. But to conclude, because you have accepted part of our proposals to improve the law, because you have taken the first step towards preventing illegal construction on agricultural land, the IDS Representatives Club will not be against this proposal to amend and supplement the law. And whether we are in favour or abstentions will depend on whether or not you accept the suggestions that we have stated in this debate by the vote, correct the shortcomings that we have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104434	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Mosta will now speak the respected representatives Petrov and Miletic. First honorary representative of Perth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104435	Honorable parliamentary representatives, MPs, ministry representatives. I would like to sum up everything that has happened today and what has happened with this law and with Croatian agriculture for the past 10 years. You're this is the 29th time in 25 years, the 29th time to change this law. Do you know that? Count, 29th time. This must show some success, you successfully pass laws in the matter of implementation. Every time you make laws you hear the same generic answers, we hope, we believe, it will be, I must admit that I heard a newspaper today, we share your concerns. That's ingenious. Don't share our concerns, you run this ministry, you make decisions so that going to make this law so good that we don't need to change it for the next 10 years. The results of your proposed laws that you said you hoped to, believe, say the following, by EUROSTATU, according to the European Commission Croatian farmers have the least purchasing power from all EU Member States today as they had three years ago when you were given a moratorium to ban the purchase of land to foreigners and like 10 years ago when you first asked for the least purchasing power. A hectare of agricultural land today in Croatia is worth at least one of the other EU member states. For example, a hectare of agricultural land in Croatia is worth 24,000 kunas, anywhere else in the Netherlands 560,000 hectare. You don't believe it? Google it. That's your fun information, Google a little bit and you'll see. Third thing, you asked for a moratorium to make agricultural production better, to somehow be more competitive. Today, the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia is 70% less than the average of the European Union. Not from the best, from the average 70% less. Today, thanks to your non-engagement and incompetence, you have led Croatia to the fact that within a year, as the minister said, you must let foreigners buy agricultural land, and you have done nothing. Among other things, you promised the European Commission that you would carry out the commission. Zero. Law zero. Purchase power up, down. These are the results of the way you run, and that's not the data I pulled out of my little finger. These are EUROSTAT's data, parameters that can be checked wherever you want. And what are you doing today? Today you are changing the law by which all Croatian citizens who have ownership of some agricultural land must first address the ministry. The Ministry of State has the right to buy first. And then what? Where does it say in the law that you're bound to buy it? Or is there going to be a generic response, so we're not interested, sell? Why am I telling you this? Because I don't believe your word, because your word 28 times proved wrong. Write it in the law if you're behind the fact that you're mandatory. Write down the criteria by which you will buy. Write deadlines at the end, deadlines. Because when a potential buyer comes to buy agricultural land everything that a Croat is if he has to wait for the ministry to answer it for 10 years he can die by then, and that has been your efficiency so far. What it looks like today is what you did and where you let Croatian farmers go according to all these criteria that you unfortunately did not meet, it seems to you that you are soon playing a race that is entering the Croatian Fico, the Dutch Ferrari and you are saying the race is legal. We have equal opportunities to win that race. And why do we have Fitz and the Dutch, for example? Ferrari, that's what you need to ask yourself, you who've raised 28 hands for these laws. And I don't care how you handle it, you want to set the criteria, you want to set deadlines, you want to go on your knees in Brussels again because you're successful in whatever. Here you go, because the farmers in Croatia didn't deserve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104436	The next Club of Representatives will be the second part of the Mosta, and the respected representative Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104437	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So first I'd like to say a few things that are good. It's good, and that's what I've talked about every time here from the conference room, somehow those bees are especially on my heart. There will be more protection of bees even though each other's law has prescribed care for the protection of bees whether or not, but this is certainly a shift. On the other hand, we've been witnessing that the last few days have been a bee killing again. State Secretary to the Minister, therefore, there should be a much clearer view of the State Inspectorate that needs to be done so that this is no longer happening. We know about what's going on. So they sprayed their tails, they were too late. So it's usually sprayed before blooming. The flowering started, they sprayed, and then it went where it shouldn't have gone, and so the system needs to be organised so that these things can be proven because we know it's a repenic glower, so let's not get our bees killed anymore, they're very important to us. Another thing, you know what? I don't think we're aware of the whole system, that the whole system needs to be changed. I wish our minister was in the focus of beefing and you. So, especially dairy cattle that we should keep as a drop of water on the palm of our hand because we know what that means. So that cycle in nature that actually goes like one lap, right, if we have cattle on the pasture, then in the meadows, those meadows don't ask questions. There's no poison in the meadows, and otherwise, people with shovels throw that poison away. So, because of the larger production of all shovels and then with shovels, they land different pesticides all to improve their production and then what happens happens. So we should take care of beef and I think that we are the only country in the European Union that does not have self-sufficient livestock. That's what was so important to me. Another thing I also think would be good to sensitize the Croatian public and explain to them why it is important to have around the cattle. So the Secretary of State knows because you're on the subject. So there are representatives here who are therefore deep in the topic of agriculture. You have in Austria in serious small towns, I won't tell you in Vienna if it's near Schonberg, but in serious cities you have a church, a restaurant, a guesthouse and a cow brother. The cow, five cows dog, and we have Tomašević who drives with the Yakusevci people who have their own animals. He's pushing them. Who knows where he's driving them? It's his job. He's pushing people. It's not just a family with little kids. He's got animals on him, too. He's got a problem with all of them. No, I don't. Except for that agenda of his. And then we have Austria, and in Austria, watch this, so citizens of kindergarten, kindergarten built by cows, and then nicely that Austrians make a problem with the fertilizer going naturally down and the kids come and watch says see the cow, this is the cow. My Rivers if you ask from some urban skyscraper so with 15 floors, I worked in high school, and when I came with my high schoolers so for the first time, so to some on a desert island and hunted a hobbyist, and I was asked by a high school student, and the mangup that plays football, says professors die gloves, I say what your gloves are going to take, so that's a hobo how, ma's hunting her brother on her head. So you see how European civil civilizations can have cattle in the center of their places, and we drive people away. So let us all focus on all that is important for self-sufficiency and ultimately to protect our families And our cows. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104438	On behalf of the Homeland Movement, the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement will now speak the respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104439	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen Other reasons [[Intruder: Please, we can let a colleague of Hasanbegovic speak, please.]] For which this law is passed [[Employee: counterpart Oreshkovic, colleague Oreshković, please let our colleague Hasanbegović speak.]] in its reasoning, I quote the provisions of the applicable law, which could not be sufficiently achieved in practice by creating added value in agricultural production as a result of the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What does that mean? It means that the legislator has not been able to create an excessive legislative framework for nearly 3 decades of modern Croatian state to settle this key strategic issue, which depends, among other things, on Croatian state and national economic food self-sufficiency. I remind this is 6th in a row of the Agricultural Land Act 1991, fourth, 2001, eighth, '13, 2018, which is twice new, which means that this is already the third amendment and addition in just 4 years, which in itself speaks of legislative improvisation and legal uncertainty as a fundamental feature of the Croatian legal order. One key fact has been missed in the debate on this legislative proposal in the first reading. Why, in 2022 today, do we even have state agricultural land in the range of unknown countries that have not been subjected to a communist social experiment? Is it a self-comprehensible fact of several centuries of Croatian agricultural history or is it an anomaly of agrarian relations in the beginning of 1945 with a Yugoslav communist procedure in private ownership with the aim of dissipating through the abduction of nationalisation and confiscation of the land of the unfavourable Croatian land. I remind you of Article 3(2). The Law on Agricultural Land adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 1991, which reads the agricultural land taken from earlier owners after 15 May '45. remain owned by the Republic of Croatia until the rules on the denationalisation and return of agricultural land to previous owners. What is the situation today after more than three decades? The effects of the Property Compensation Act were seized during the Yugoslav communist rule whose implementation is a prerequisite for the restoration of the legal order and ownership relations liquidated by the communist revolutionary procedure in '45. A year? According to the government's 2013 government document, the proposal for a management and availability strategy owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2013 to 2017 total area of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia was 2 million 695 thousand 37 hectares, of which the ownership of the Republic of Croatia was 890,000 and some 33% hectares, while private property had a million, 80,4 thousand hectares, 67%. So, the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia has an area of 890 thousand and some hectares. The comparisons for the surface area of the Republic of Croatia are 56 thousand 594 km2 and it turns out that only the area of the state agricultural land is 15% slightly more than 15% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law should be brought into line with any restrictive law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule in such a way that the proposer, by way of an invisible hand, additionally strengthens its restrictive provisions aimed at the permanent legislation of the communist kidnapping of private property, specifically agricultural land which today is the object of concession and tenant arbitration manipulations. Article 56(2), which reads as follows in the proceedings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, refers to the procedures for the finding of replacement land under the Law on the Compensation of Assets, the subject of the replacement agricultural land cannot be, cannot be combined and eroded, therefore, the rounded area of agricultural land. This question arises from the following questions. As the legislator defines the aronded and co-massed areas, whether it works here in terms of surfaces in fact by land-marked particles that cannot be shared for the purpose of returning as land-based agricultural land. What are even arrondised and communicated surfaces, where is the precise definition of that concept? If the arondated and combined areas of state-owned property cannot be subject to replacement land, then what areas can be substituted in the recovery process? So because of such an unscheduled provision in Art. In 56, which is subject to arbitration interpretations, all arondated and co-massed land from the 19th century, until 1990, is excluded as a possible substitute land in property recovery procedures, leading to numerous administrative and judicial disputes, including international courts. This will also lead the beneficiaries to the compensation based on the Law on Compensation whose claims have not yet been settled in a discriminatory position with respect to the authorising officers who have already obtained the right to obtain a replacement agricultural land by means of a settlement of property rights, and all in opposition to the current legal decisions, because this provision does not exist in current legal decisions, government regulations and rules, constitutional decisions of the Constitutional Court of 1990s and of the Conventional Law, as well as the Law on ownership, more specifically the possibility of granting legal land as a form of replacement land as a form of compensation, will become in reality inconclusive. This is more because the replacement areas that should still be reserved as compensation for previous owners do not even amount to 2% of the area of the state agricultural land. This legal anomaly can be solved in two possible ways, and that is the content of the amendments that we refer to in the parliamentary procedure. First in Art. In Article 56(2), the word ‘no’ is deleted and the paragraph would read, in the proceedings referred to in Article 1 of this Article, meaning the procedures for the finding of replacement agricultural land, the subject of the replacement agricultural land may be combined and arrondated areas of agricultural land. The second amendment of St. 2 is deleted in full. This minimum change shall ensure that the right to find replacement agricultural land is compensated and, most importantly, this amendment ensures the right to grant replacement agricultural land in the return proceedings of the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule in accordance with the current provision of Article. The 29th century 4th century. The law on agricultural land, therefore, protects the rights acquired by this amendment to compensation not derogated, reduced or left without legal protection, is finally safeguarding the duly acquired property demand of compensation authorities. Namely, if the previous owner made a timely request for compensation of the seized property during the Yugoslav communist rule, he also acquired a valid property claim towards the state and other owner of the seized property. Such claim falls within the property of the previous owner or successor. The provision of the legislative proposal is against civilization, it represents the permanent legislation of the revolutionary communist kidnapping started in 1945, so I call on HS to remove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104440	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, she will now speak to a respected representative, Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. State agricultural land is a prerequisite for the development of Croatian agriculture, a generator of employment in rural areas and is the main factor in providing raw materials for the existing and future food industry. The way decisions are taken and how they will relate to agricultural land and agriculture depends entirely on the content and implementation of the Agricultural Land Act. The creation of this law took into account inclusiveness towards farmers as first and basic land users, and experts and scientists who can assist in the adoption of balanced and sustainable solutions because agricultural land is according to art. The 52nd Constitution is good for the Republic of Croatia, it has its special protection, so we can't care how these valuable resources are managed. The Law on Agricultural Land has brought great attention, even harsh controversy, because farmers were interested in finally agreeing after many amendments to the laws that will give them security and ensure that agricultural land is available as a basic resource for food production. In our club, we are a representative of the position that the allocation of agricultural land must be swift, transparent and fair following the strategic provisions set out in the Agriculture Strategy until 2030, which we recently adopted in HS, and will be guided by the fact that the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land comes out to foreigners in July next year. Art. 18, which is replaced by Article 18. The 36th of course, it was about an article relating to the score. We believe that the objectives of the agriculture strategy planned by 2030 should be followed consistently in this article. increase the value of agricultural production volume to 30 billion kuna per year, as well as labour productivity by 60%, and more strongly encourage agricultural economies, especially small and medium-sized farmers, of course young farmers whose share would be up to 2030. It should be 20% I would like to remind you that the objective of the strategy is to increase the area under irrigation to 50,000 ha under organic production to 140 000 ha of surface area in glass and plastic production to 500 ha, increase the number of pigs in tow by 35% and cattle by 20%. The aim is to expand the area under permanent crops by 5000 ha, build 20 regional distribution centres for fruits and vegetables and increase the share of producers participating in short food supply chains by 30%. We have repeatedly expressed our view that young farmers, small and medium-sized farmers and domestic farmers must be entitled to a public tender for the lease of state agricultural land, and this must also be seen in the system of points, with the support of achieving the objectives of the Agriculture Strategy. Taking into account the difficulties and developments in the market, we believe that we must support domestic production, not other people's agriculture. And in this sense it is important to reward those who grow domestic cattle and try to increase the number of female breeding throats and rejuvenating. In order to achieve clarity in adapting the score to the objectives of the Agriculture Strategy, making sure that Croatian villages do not remain empty to us, and that generation renewal and retention of the existing inhabitants of the village are important, especially in our focus young farmers, but also women who often help their spouses in agricultural family economies, but their work is not recognised and is not recognised and therefore recognised by this law and we want to motivate them to become holders of family farms. The war in Ukraine in the cereals of Europe has brought strong food supply disturbances and inevitable price increases, but has also reopened the issue of self-sufficiency in food production as it has put into focus and seed production because the seed is a prerequisite for food production. The current crises which have not been missed have revealed that the greatest resilience to the crisis has been shown by those countries that did not depend on imports but have had their own production and were able to transport agricultural products within a short period of time from field to table. Croatia produces sufficient quantities of cereals, but is not self-sufficient in the production of meat, fruit and vegetables, therefore these are areas of agricultural production which this law particularly recognises and rewards with points. This crisis is also an opportunity to turn more domestic production to create conditions for greater security in supplying the population with the necessary food. Fortunately, Croatia has enough food, but we know that prices on the global market are growing. It is also growing in Croatia, and it is certainly worrying us all, but it also directs us to make a certain turn. In the strategic stock of food supplies, they participate with 50%. In early March, the government adopted a Decision on the renewal of strategic stocks of wheat, corn, barley, and the extraordinary acquisition of goods from strategic stock and the planned value of the purchase of nearly 600 million kuna. And all this tells us how important agricultural land is to us because there is no food production without it. This is why we believe that exactly agricultural land, and we should primarily use it to produce food and welcome the decision of the ministry that we ourselves have proposed, that on the most fertile P1 and P2 land, solar collectors cannot be placed, but food must be produced. But we also use this debate to address once again the problem that farmers face in the use and production of renewable energy sources and we call on all those in charge to remove these problems. It is clear to all of us that the availability of agricultural land needs to be more orderly because there were those who did not manage the agricultural land mara of a good master, who did not implement economic programmes or even those whose economic programmes mysteriously disappeared from all places where they would be expected to be stored, and thus the control of the implementation of the programme and the penalties for their possible non-implementation were almost disabled. The decision of the Ministry of Agriculture on the implementation of the revision of the economic programme was initiated on our part, because we believe that we need a kind of clean start to give the desired effects. 246 contracts have been reviewed and surveillance has been established that 36 entities for 53 contracts do not implement the economic programme in part or in full. Of these, 10 entities, for 10 contracts, do not fully implement the economic programme. This law clearly defines that those who have lost economic programmes cannot score points on this basis, and those who have failed to achieve them will have to achieve them within two years otherwise they will also not be able to get points. I believe that we have resolved a Gordian knot that has often been a stumbling block and the cause of its kind of inequality among farmers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The laws, which are proposed to regulate the right to buy both state and private agricultural land, have sparked major debates, as well as concerns that such a mode will lead to an unfavourable position for private agricultural land owners placed on the market, that it will cause further administration. We think this proposal came from good intentions, that it has its own clear purpose, which is to protect agricultural land as our strategic resource. In practice, however, in order not to cause difficulties, we believe that it is necessary to define exactly which surface is moving, so from which surface of the state should have the right to buy first. Because we'll all agree, if someone wants to sell the house to a known buyer, it's not logical that the garden offers first to the state. We therefore believe that in the case of the law of the first state, it is good to apply those areas already defined in Article 60 of this Law, which is above one hectare in the coastal Croatia and above 10 ha in continental Croatia. I would like to remind you that Croatia's EU Accession Treaty has negotiated a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners for a period of 7 years, that the deadline has been extended for another 3 years until July 2023. And we are all aware that this day will come very soon, so we need to create mechanisms to ensure that Croatian agricultural land comes into the hands of Croatian farmers, and this law should also help. We believe that the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture are also useful to achieve clarity and that these proposals that we have tabled will be adopted and, in this respect, we will support the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104442	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, she will now speak to a respected representative, Anja Simprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104443	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Few of the laws influence the demographic image of the Law on Agricultural Land, for it knowingly or unconsciously influences the outflow of a working - age population. At the same time, few requiring so much balance between small farmers on the one hand and large corporations on the other, because both sides must be satisfied and the situation must be achieved. The big question is whether we will succeed in a law that has already been changed in these three years for the third time, and a total of almost 20 times, although it is difficult to say for agricultural land that it is a very dynamic area. So far, the availability of state agricultural land has not always been transparent, there has been no monitoring of the implementation of economic programmes, the obligation to pay rent, the lease of state agricultural land, the non-maintaining of state agricultural land, the change in the culture of agricultural land, etc. I have to say that the law between the two readings is still going in a positive direction. Thus, the final proposal of the law stipulates that in the event that the offered lease in a public tender is made by the bidder that meets the tender conditions, double the amount of the initial lease shall be crossed. Such an offer is considered invalid. It is also positive to include the maximum area if it is specified all areas of state agricultural land that have been leased regardless of the period. However, I still have to say that our Club believes it is necessary in the beginning to determine the maximum area that can be leased to a particular natural or legal person and to the associated natural and legal persons and we believe that this area cannot exceed 50% of the total farm land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of units of local self-government that conducts the competition or the City of Zagreb. We must be aware that if we do not set the upper limit or determine the maximum area to threaten us with a serious threat that great players will get everything where small farmers will suffer the most. In doing so, I must stress that we do not mean anything by large systems, but we must be aware that the revitalisation of villages in our country depends greatly on the development of small farmers. At the same time, we are aware that the determination of the maximum surface for various reasons so far has been shown to be problematic, but this does not mean that certain local sheriffs need to be given the maximum surface practically as an expression of their good will, and in practice, a vast manipulative space. Through all strategic documents and action plans, including through the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, we adopted that rural environments, youth and women are important to us. And then we create a maneuver like between these two readings and being ourselves contradictory. In his first reading, the SDSS Club proposed an increase in initial 10 points for young people, and for some reason the promoter ordered that we give young people 5 points instead of 10. The legislative proposal puts young farmers in a more unfavourable position in several places because at the same time it gives 20 points to long-term owners of whom no entity in long-term possessions can be a young person, while at the same time giving the final proposal to young people only 5 points. Women as OPG carriers have not been mentioned. We think this is definitely a bad step. For this reason, we considered it necessary to submit amendments concerning the categories mentioned. But in the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, we discussed this, and we hope to accept the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture. I must say that many constructive proposals on the Committee have been translated into amendments and such a way of working could be an example. At least a little bit will encourage generation renewal and try to stop the depopulation of rural areas and recognise the large role of women in rural areas, which would lead to the achievement of the sustainable UN development goals that the Republic of Croatia needs to achieve by 2030 and the European Union's gender equality objectives. Sadly, too, this legal proposal did not foresee that in some of the situations we have been witnessing lately. For example, which is a protection mechanism provided by law that municipal councilors cannot afford to rent agricultural land themselves as we had the case in the far east of Croatia. The only mechanism is for the Ministry to possibly have a negative opinion which essentially leads to the status quo or that everything remains the way it is right now that corresponds to the truth. It turns out that the protection mechanism comes down to the ministry's discretionary assessment, not to a legal solution that must not be the case at all. It is also not defined as being considered a peaceful owner or whether the entity is sufficient to pay the rent regardless of other qualifications of the property. As far as the state's first law is concerned, it's raised a lot of dust in the media area. I am afraid that the market will have a bad impact on the provision which provides that the Ministry of Agriculture has the right to buy agricultural land at market price or that the owner of the land cannot sell to another buyer the land below the price he asked the State to if the Ministry rejects its offer. Therefore, it would be more logical for the seller to exercise the right to compensation at the most offered price rather than market prices as proposed. A bad influence could be seen through the fact that all of this could slow down a market that is dynamic regardless of what is only 30 days to show about the offer. I was asked the question from which funds will be financed first, and whether the Ministry of Agriculture will have sufficient administrative capacity to carry out these activities or whether they will affect the regular obligations of the ministry. However, if we have already decided to give the state the first right to buy, why not determine which areas it is, so that the state has the first right to say only when it comes to areas larger than 10 hectares or even more in the continental area and greater than one hectare, up to 5 in the coastal area. From now on, the parcels will also not be able to be stained at less than one hectare. The law is designed to preserve agriculture, not directly and prevent wild construction. The proposer's intention was to prevent decommissioning of parcels or to encourage their circulation, however, although the rounding is certainly a desirable direction, I fear that it will not be achieved by the announced ban. First of all, for a number of reasons, some areas in Croatia are not suitable for intensive agricultural production, neither for the rounding of land, but are therefore dominated by production for their own needs or smaller agricultural economies. In Croatia, there are areas that have many particles less than one hectare, for example, for a number of reasons. Dalmatia and islands, as well as many parts of the country's interior. How many problems would this ban cause become clear when it is considered that as many as 92% of all vineyards have vineyards whose surface is one hectare or less. A special story is only with the land-book situation that I've talked about here many times over this pay phone. A simple example, the son and daughter of the mother inherit 8,000 squares of agricultural land per half. According to the proposed changes, power will not be entered into land books as owners of its part of the country, and the consequences will be that it will only worsen the unsettled situation in land books. The ban on parceling means that agricultural land will continue to be divided into particles less than hectares, bought and sold, only those ownership relations will not be recorded and visible in catasters and land books. I believe that the problem of rounding up in a valid way is regulated by the recently discussed Law on COMMASSATION that this provision should simply be omitted or complemented. As I said at the beginning, we believe that in the Law on Agricultural Land between two readings, most positive steps were made and the SDSS's Club of Representatives will submit several amendments in the hope that they will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104444	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104445	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the 4th Amendment or Amendment 4 to the Agricultural Land Act since 2018, when the law was passed then there was immediately one amendment to that same 2018, one '19. And we're moving on now. So let's kind of try to structure it the following way, so we have the Agricultural Land Act, these changes actually relate to the availability and the way it is available to state agricultural land, the way it's done so far, we're not satisfied and we're trying to improve the way and the conditions of this law. What, so far, were we able to establish when it came to state agricultural land? The first thing we could have realized was that it had not been brought in for a purpose, then we could have realized that it had been sufficiently enough and we wanted to put it into office, then so far what could have been determined that the availability of state-owned agricultural land was not transparent, that it was not followed by the implementation of the economic programmes, that the bonds were not fulfilled by paying the rent, that there were sublets, that there was no maintenance, that there were changes in the culture of agricultural land, that the non-compliance of the same land should have been the termination of the contract and could actually be determined next. We have state agricultural land, we want it to be put into operation, the way it's been put into operation so far wasn't satisfactory, but among other things, we haven't done the job where we could and had, we've had the data and we haven't done the job until the end. So Croatia is a small country and there are few of us and all of us are smaller. When someone has been leased agricultural land and is not available to them according to their contract or according to their own way or economic programme, imagine that you quickly and expeditionively create, break off the contracts, show what it is, if you do so in Slavonia it is known in Istria and Dalmatia at the same time, and then it is shown that the state takes care of its land and that it cares about putting the land into operation. What I have to do, and I always try to praise it, and that's next. The Ministry of Agriculture when, when it is actually preparing for us, I would not say about us, but prepare the bill, the law always has its provisions, has its reasons, have what was in the first reading and in the second reading the Ministry of Agriculture makes it quality. The agriculture ministry won't accept the remarks, but it will explain why they didn't accept them. We have another, some other ministries that when you see that explanation between the first and second reading then you see one card of the remark were not objects or not accepted because for some other reason. That's not the case here, and I kind of feel like every time someone does something right, they should do it and commend it. Likewise, between the first and second readings were some of the remarks that were accepted. Of course, no one has a magic wand and, of course, no one can be here right now, at least the secretary of state who is on the phone or the minister who is never sure whether until next reading of any other law she will be a minister or not, given that our prime minister is holding them in short shit, so no one can give a guarantee and say that. We have the law now, that we're sure he'll make an impact. That we will come before you in six months or a year, see which or two years, and see which is the realisation of the effect and honestly admit and say what we have now predicted was not good, but what we see now is some reason, and that is why we are going to some changes and additions. It always seems to me and I say it in principle that whenever you pass the law it should really be the maximum participation of all those professions that can contribute, that you have to listen to all the arguments for and against. I was somehow taught that whenever you go into some serious reform stories or some serious steps you have to have about the same amount as unsatisfactory. Because if some of you are extremely satisfied then you have someone extremely unhappy on the other hand, it means that you've done some kind of I'd say imbalance in all of that. Here you can see it at the first reading, and in the public debate you can see the people who participated and who warned. The Ministry should give the law a chance to live. You need to follow him and you need to tell my people about the law-monitoring problem, those three problems we have. We don't have a step, we're going to change because those three problems we have. I have to admit I don't see it, I haven't seen it in a while, but I feel like there's that list of laws that should be passed to make someone like it, like, and then we scrigulate and say the clutch yes. What I am always particularly interested in is the relationship between the law itself, between the planned areas and between the spatial plan. This law also included the topic of spatial planning in several places between the two readings and added one provision, which is the provision of Article 34, which says that in particular the value and value of agricultural land is that of P1 and P2 which is owned by the State and which is the subject of the sale cannot be rescheduled by a spatial plan for another purpose. So let's just understand it all the way. We in Croatia compared to the land we have is about when you do the honest ones, the most honest possible images of satellite somewhere 7-8% of our surfaces are areas where human hands have changed something. So, the areas on which the roads are located, on which this underground infrastructure is, of course, you don't see the underground infrastructure, on which something was built. So we have both P1 and P2 of agricultural land and I absolutely think that when you have the need for a new construction area, there's no reason to do it on quality agricultural land, that you can do it elsewhere. I'm usually and here comes the subject of legalization and the subject of illegal construction. You can't stop an illegal construction by telling you that's about this provision that's within the law as if you say no one can buy cement or brick if he didn't contribute to having a building permit. Imagine if you said no cement shopping now and no brick shopping without anyone applying a building permit. When I started working in another country and in another system of truth God was relatively short then they were something called scouts, municipal scouts whose task I had always worked in the City of Zagreb, or I worked in the City of Zagreb, so I worked in the big city; their task was to visit the field they were in charge of in the morning, to write down in which streets and at which number someone had drawn out cement or sand, or gravel that the second morning when they returned to report to the building inspection to check whether a building inspection had been issued for these addresses. And if no building permit was issued, the building inspection was going out and she asked what you were doing. It's one way to prevent illegal construction. That's one way of managing space. I'm not sure what's in this law will still prevent illegal construction. Irregular construction should be prevented by the state through clear conditions and clear criteria. A country that's willing to tear down illegal construction in the foundations, not when the house was built and moved in, and then everyone is growing empathy and says why you're doing it. So preventing illegal construction must be different. This can't be one of the models. And what I am taking this opportunity to continue to build in Croatia. Yes, it is located on the highest quality land and that it is located on agricultural land. When you're looking at a little map and you're playing cards, then you can see exactly that the main part of illegal construction throughout history has been built on agricultural land. But you know why? Because roads were made. Ways were made to get to his plot because he was doing something on the plot, and then suddenly, along those roads, they started to break down houses and illegal construction. But illegal construction in Croats such as one representative in a long time ago said traditional construction. And what it's supposed to be, should be that we really make sure that this traditional construction isn't like that, so I'm not sure these provisions of the law will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104446	Thank you. On behalf of SDP's club, the respected MPs will now speak for the first respected representative, Jaksic, and then the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic. I almost skipped you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104447	Everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104448	I'm just looking at a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104449	I can even understand you. Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Honorable Ministry representatives, Honorable colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. [[Intruder Reiner: Here you go.]] Good afternoon. Well, hello, everyone. What I must underline in my first sentence on behalf of the SDP Club that we have prepared really many amendments and that our final position on these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land will well depend on the position of ruling busy according to our proposals, on our amendments and what interpretations we will receive, given that a good part of the amendment is the core of what the SDPs thinks should be resolved and cleared. Why are we doing this? Because we think that despite the fact that we're biting into that sour apple again. Why sour? Because everything we've achieved in agriculture in the last 30 years is saying we definitely haven't done enough. But we can give plus what is again trying to do something even though the amendments are there because we have very many questionnaires, a lot of misunderstandings, and in some things we believe that they have to be much better and detailed, elaborate and give much clearer answers and criteria than they are given in these amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. Of course we understand that the ruling will overwrite all 30 years of agricultural policies in the Republic of Croatia that are naked, dry, statistically speaking when we extract all figures despite perhaps some brighter specimens and events absolutely missed. Because if we were in agricultural land processing and in production we threw about ho ho behind the period when we were in Yugoslavia then it means that a lot of things in the age of independence we were doing totally wrong. And we can now draw out what we've been doing through EU funds, what we've done with certain policies and legal changes, but the figures are absolutely inexorable because we can't talk about all this being good and there's a lot of optimism if we're self-sufficient in agricultural production. I'm also talking about warfare and livestock in just absolutely several cultures and in several products. We cannot say that we are satisfied because several times today we have been mentioned in cattle farming, if only in the past year, and if we return to the period since we entered the European Union we have dropped production and milk, and chickens, and turkeys, and pork and we could now list this series to the indefinitely and not the data of the opposition, but the data of the State Statistics Office. And then, of course, we ask ourselves whether these changes are sufficient to reverse these trends especially when we take into account what is under a) showed us a covid pandemic and has shown us how important it is to be self-sufficient with our agricultural production and under b) what today shows us the economic crisis which is here among us and again shows us how important it is to be self-sufficient in agricultural production and that with our own hands and work we can provide the Croatian market and not that, as we have been protecting import lobbys for 30 years and that we literally do not have any room to protect our own economy and our citizens in some crisis of price. For the end of my part, I must repeat that the SDPs are absolutely against the sale and sale of Croatian agricultural land, because it is one of the few resources and economic tools that remain in our hands and under our control. And also mentioned yesterday, it has been mentioned several times over the past few weeks that we continue to think that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have done much more about what is happening in Fortenova because simply through this process which unfortunately went wrong since the first day again is happening to us the situation that our fertile plain in Slavonia, our farms and the many other agricultural resources that Fortenova has whispered will take over Hungarians. So it won't even be under our control anymore regardless of what someone was trying to interpret from that something else. We could swear to freedom of the market. We can say that the Hungarians will not take it anywhere, but we can see how it ended with the INA, and we can see what else can possibly happen through these crises, and agricultural products will be a very, very important resource in those crises, and we have literally released everything into the market and released everything to the Hungarians or you abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104450	Thank you. It will continue on behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104451	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to warn once again that this final proposal actually proposes that the third amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was adopted in 2018, are amended from the existing 108 articles 61 articles, which actually create preconditions for the creation of a new law, and not actually amendments and additions. This is a devastating fact for the Ministry, which then claimed in 2018 to know what it is doing and how it will put into operation as large as possible the area of agricultural areas has been delegated to local self-government units, so that in the end they have already had third changes since 2018 that introduce a new way of points and availability to agricultural land. By listening to the comments of the profession, those who conduct the contracts of the unit of local self-government, but also users mean farmers themselves, we see that the Ministry will not facilitate the implementation of this Act and that the need for farmers is not actually being followed. Experience in the execution of competitions is not good. The procedures that began two years ago have not been completed, and it has been a long time. And the fact is also that the adoption of these new amendments will not make it easier to implement the law. That's not what we say. It's not something we've concluded, it's what those who enforce that law and farmers who actually fear for their future. We know that the situation in Croatian agriculture has been getting worse in spite of European funds for years. The data says otherwise. There's been a fall in fruit and vegetable production. Milking is almost completely destroyed. Sugars closed. Porcine husbandry is what our farmers in Slavonia say, "popping from hollow to empty", and at the level of only 30% self-sufficiency, but let's start with our proposals. It is necessary to draw up a unique record by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests for all land described in the catastra as agricultural, and to actually enable this land to be leased. There are plenty of land available to Croatian forests, which unfortunately cannot be leased. We propose the release of payment of a one-time fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the construction or restoration of the facility in order to provide housing for young people and other interested people in rural areas. If someone wants to rebuild the house in rural areas, the first thing that can be met is to pay a variety of fees and impose what is detimizing. In the case of a country-owned agricultural land distribution programme, we propose to delete the provisions relating to sales due to unclearly prescribed criteria and to overlap the provisions on the sale of state land and the right of first purchase of private agricultural land. On the one hand, a regulated state agricultural land is sold, and on the other hand we have the purchase of unregulated agricultural private land without clearly established conditions. As regards points under existing provisions, there is no evaluation of the economic programme and the question is actually why this document is even called and delivered with an offer. Amendments and additions to art. In part, it returns to the 2013 model. which was clearly prescribed points for individual criteria. In order for the economic programme to have its own meaning, we further propose an evaluation of the previous 20-point property, and the 80-point programme itself. We propose adding and the basic conditions for participation in the public tender, which are the entry in the register of farmers or registers of agricultural holdings, and the dealing with agriculture as primary activities. We also suggest introducing an area ratio that can be leased at 60% for OPGs and 40% for legal persons. Furthermore, we propose to develop an economic programme in a way that reduces the points from 5 to 4 for education and experience in agriculture, and the share of direct payments to the total incomes from agriculture due to the increase in the points for young farmers from 5 to 7 points and the addition of points for farmers means women because of the sustainable objectives of EU gender equality development. We also believe that it is necessary to prescribe an objection or the possibility of objecting to a public tender to decide on the selection of the most favourable bidders and the cancellation of competitions. We believe that this issue should be regulated by the provisions in force and it is very important that the competition could actually be conducted legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104452	Thank you very much. Now the next Club of Representatives will be, and that's the Social Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative, Niksha Vukas, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104453	Vice President HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here's when I thought about a little bit of what to say about this new final proposal for a law on the availability of agricultural land we need to go back a little bit. We had seemed to invade some of the laws relating to agriculture, we had the first reading of the Law on the availability of agricultural land, so we had a famous law on some sort of regulation of seeds which also had a disastrous ending, then we had a strategy that was essentially a picture of beautiful desires and it was impossible to implement in one of Croatia that devastated its agriculture. In order to get back to the beginning of the sea, in order for someone at all to be engaged in agriculture must have agricultural land and we are sitting here talking like this virtually in four walls about agriculture and I think that these people who are doing something today are even sick of listening to what we're talking about today because they can't even understand what language we're talking about and we're fighting something like that. 71st, Art. 49th, so my people are not interested in agriculture because the situation in Croatia's agriculture, especially the availability of agricultural land, was deployed there in the '90s. All that quality is real agricultural land, it has found its owner, and by all these criteria that are made today, people that have large areas, smaller surfaces, if with these surfaces good lords there is practically no law that will make it impossible for them to get an extension of the contract. How much we care about our agriculture, and what we've been doing since the beginning, we've fallen to the test just by having agricultural land at our disposal. It is known who came into possession of agricultural land, the financiers and donors of political parties came, the people who sat in those circles, all of it spread out nicely, and then after that we began to introduce order into agriculture, which is practically impossible. So we had a cow-body system that's infamously failed where you practically get a calf incentive, you feed a cow for nine months, you feed it, you've got no incentive, so, these poor people's farms fell apart, we sold it all together alive, so we had incentives back in '95-'6. 15-16 thousand kuna per hectare for some permanent plantations, so people planted it, so it went to waste, so people went to plant nuts, and then in the end, when Europe decided to invest money to revitalise our agriculture a little bit, to modernise it, to technologically bring it to a state, let's say about one Austria, Germany, Switzerland, France, then these famous EU funds, money from the EU, and more or less, they all stopped farming and the consultants came to us. And there he is now who has the most will to work, who has the most, who will win the most money in the end are consultants. And I'm going to say one hard sentence now, it wouldn't surprise me that in recent times, I think, for the next two days, our country loses accreditation to take any euro out of the EU funds when we see what we have to do with the SAFU, and I wouldn't be surprised that the EU request will be a new agency, a new director, a new internal structure and rules on work, and then we ourselves know that we can't withdraw a single euro from the eu funds. As we mastered agriculture, we can go back and who were all ministers, so we have one Cobankovic who was peeling potatoes, so we have one Jakovina who disappeared after those famous 100 things gives 73 large, and other small saters, so we have Tolusic out there probably squatting and waiting for someone to knock on his door, so we have a minister today who's scared who's okay, nice, cultural, wants to do something. And what are you gonna do about it? Well, if we had any will and desire in our agriculture, we'd be the first to take care of Petrokemia, a mineral fertiliser factory that is the blood vessel of agricultural production, so we'd be taking care of it. It was an institution for employment incarceration, a non-essential political party in office once needed an open word in position, so it was a disaster. And then INA came in because they couldn't pay for the gas, so INA entered the ownership structure, so INA watched the Hungarians watch each other get away, and then PPD came in. The question of what's going to happen with Petrokemia, it seems to me that now it's on sale, so we couldn't keep it, not to mention our seed homes from the BC Institute, the Osijek Institute, not that we didn't help them, but we systematically worked against them to sell it all together. And then 30 years later, we're changing, and we're here in the assembly arguing about whether it's changed 28 times, 14 times or 35 times. So who cares? Well, she's gone all the quality land we had left. Now, my people, let's go out in the field and see what we're fighting about, so that's not even farm land anymore, that's farm land, and probably land books, so that's chicars. So there are people who first have to buy a mallet so they have to dive everything and see what economic cost-effectiveness even further agriculture is there. All of our illogicalities, I ask you State Secretary, you've been in this problem for a long time, why don't we abolish these historical rights, historical rights in livestock, where we have 20,000 OPGs or... who have historical rights receiving some money and these were transitional historical rights, of them 20,000 9,000 no longer has cattle, and 1,900 has no agricultural activity at all, but they receive money. So why isn't that lifted? Which is why we do not transfer it linearly to direct payments and allow young farmers because we always care about young people, that they can apply because those from the national reserve cannot register if they still have transitional rights. So whatever we catch, we can't make it. Well, our sugars are gone overnight, and now we're wondering why we don't even have sugar anymore. When we make a summary of our agriculture, what do farmers care about today? Today, they are interested in the price of blue diesel, their price of mineral fertilisers, and their price of seeds. Well, that's three things farmers care about. Well, they don't care that we've been discussing art here all morning. 71. Is the state having a right and at what prices, I think it is wrong, that this price should be the price of the person who has agricultural land in some offer, so if the state can pay for it, I agree. But these are things that simply will not solve anything about the problems of Croatian agriculture absolutely nothing. Therefore, I think that we should finally catch serious things in agriculture, help the milkmen, we know for ourselves that our dairy is on the low branches, helping cattle farmers, pork production. And I think that, especially you from the ministry should make some communication with the state reserves. I think state reserves could do a big thing about revitalizing Bania right now. Why don't these people's state reserves buy a heifer, split it by these O.P.G.s and they don't have to pay anything. Let's cheat on the state's calf, and that's the thing where a lot could be done. So now we open up a serious debate about how much corn or wheat we have in stock stores would panic in the country. There is no person who would know the answer to that, and I know that there were conversations and ministers that at the time of the war in Ukraine let's buy me corn, as soon as the peasants get the price up and who's going to sign today that they're going to buy corn maybe five kunas, and it's real on the market two and a half or three. These are things nobody talks about. So, I think if we want to make something out of agriculture that we need to start dealing with real problems. We have here now heard this information that there are cities and municipalities that, after six years, can't bring a plan to the agricultural land. Let's work this out. If someone can't bring in a year I understand that you can't react, but if someone can't for six years, the Ministry is who they have to react to. But there's so much of that stuff in agriculture that I'm just going to say more about what I'm interested in in in an individual debate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104454	On behalf of the Club of Representatives For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104455	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So, according to Art. 52. The Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is of special interest and enjoys special protection. However, numerous examples as well as the current situation in which our agriculture is located speak exactly the opposite, of the carelessness of sustainable agricultural land availability. It is really painful to know that, at a time of the global crisis, so far unseen gatherings of potential energy shortages as well as potential war threats, a country that is sufficient in the production of only a few products is so easily accessible to the resources that means the survival or disappearance of the Croatian village, especially at the time of the exodus of our people that does not stop. I believe that so far we have all come to realize that, after the cavalier privatisation that resulted in the suspension of industry and jobs throughout Slavonia, but also the rest of Croatia's agriculture became the only alternative to the survival of the Croatian village. Without the land, there is no alternative. So far, the availability of the foundation that went hand-to-hand primarily to large systems and large capital has proved extremely risky. In addition, such access and convenience has proved insufficient and incompetent to provide at least the primary task of feeding the public. This has contributed to a debt crisis which now holds Croatia hostage to its own external debt. It is sad to know that we are, in addition to all the natural potentials that our country is rich in generated external debt because of the insufficient production of food eaten. The state has so far proved to be an extremely bad landlord in its possession. The worse the country was in defining and implementing measures that would lead to a more efficient ownership and use of private-owned land. It was therefore normal to expect that the planning and regulation of new measures in this matter would be preceded by a serious critical analysis of all the weaknesses of policy and practice so far as to clearly define the priorities proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. Unfortunately, instead of a quality debate with all relevant stakeholders, he faced a number of new field ignorings and new irregularities and illogicalities. And why am I saying that? Well, first of all, the Republic of Croatia has a valid regulation that defines the procedure for law-making. Therefore, the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations. It envisions an analysis of the existing situation, stipulates the obligation to maintain round tables and communicate with the entities to which the law applies. The Ministry of Agriculture, as the promoter of the amendment and addition of the existing Law on Land, is obliged to make the above-mentioned assessments, to continue to ignore these procedures. We do not have credible results of the analysis in which land has been used so far, it is even calculated with data on the areas used as well as those abandoned as those managed by the Croatian Forests. We don't know how much boredom we're producing on state land or what quality we're producing. On the other hand, we do not know what effects the proposed changes to the existing Land Act will have that it has not actually fully applied. The state owned about a quarter of the total agricultural area, of which it has placed 29% on the market for the last 10 years. Of which 55% has been sold or put into a long lease or concession. It was the largest and most fertile state parcels that were cheaply sold or put into long-term concessions under very favourable conditions, and in some cases they were practically donated to large systems. Family economies were mostly excluded from the process. The largest burden of such a policy in agriculture has been borne by livestock production, which has been most devastated due to the lack of necessary agricultural land to produce sufficient feed. And users of operational programmes for livestock development ruled local sheriffs with land division mostly on the party line. Even the land they had under the economic programmes that they were granted loans to build farms at HBOR was taken away from cattle farmers. An absurd situation where the state obligates you with long-term contracts to produce cheap raw materials for a foreign corporation, of course, with agreed foams if there is a decrease in production and then still burdens you with a huge amount of credit duties and has taken away your land in which you should produce food for cattle we only have in the Croatian village. All of these were too many cattlemen, so a good part of them gave up and went after bread from Croatia. Of the 65,000 family economies involved in the production of milk and meat in ten years, we come to 3,300. This figure decreases from day to day, so in January this year we lost an additional 103 economies in this sector. The question is how close it is to the end. It is terrible to follow countless wrong moves that the state administration has just generated the force of injustice towards the Croatian village. I therefore constantly advocate the need to revise the current availability of agricultural land owned by the State. It is extremely important to check the content of an economic programme based on which previous owners have given priority over others, and the new legislative proposal once again provides them with 20 points of advantage over others. And I am a witness that individuals after having been instructed in their economic programmes that if they were given land they would be engaged in production with high added value such as milk production or livestock production, immediately after entering or never obtaining it. It's simply not fair to those who couldn't reach state land even though the cattle are still holding today. Especially since the decision on which land will be allocated to municipal leaders who in not a small number of examples primarily satisfied their party colleagues, relatives and godfathers. An additional injustice has been created by institutions that have refused to respond adequately to land-owned land malfeasances by the Republic of Croatia for years. Playing the economic programmes on the basis of which the land was leased, then unprocessed land but used support, massive sublets, self-initiative re-use of pastures into oranics are the reasons why it falls on all farmers. And to those who use these listed malversions, but also to those who work hard and sacrificedly on the earth. Salva of negative emotions, a salva of negative emotions has also caused a new system of points within which the preference of legal persons and large systems is seen. In view of the family economies, they did not participate in the share of land through long-term leases, so concessions, most often even sales in this proposal expected clear and unequivocal protection. Especially because you won't hear a politician from a ruling option who doesn't swear in his speeches on the welfare of our OPGs. Equally, such a great storm has caused a proposal to amend the Article. 71st, which suggests that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first, even private land. The law of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia in the sale of its agricultural land is introduced between the first and second readings of the bill, which is contrary to the procedures, but is also a questionable constitutionality because private ownership of the category defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is non-injurious and cannot be limited by setting the conditions. If this proposal comes to life, I expect requests for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of these provisions before the Constitutional Court. The proposed law continues to restrict farmers' right to appeal, to the results of competitions available to land owned by the state. This violates the provisions of the constitution and threatens the rule of law. I am sorry that the ruling are not aware of the current difficult situation in the country and in agriculture, and they are still not ready to allow the voice of our producers to be heard. The draft law continues to discriminate on agricultural producers in view of their domicileness in different JLS. In the context of this draft law, the strategy of agriculture of the Republic of Croatia will then become meaningless and ineligible, and the objectives and needs will depend on the qualifications of persons who are the current authorities in municipalities and cities and their expertise. About 430 municipalities and cities have state agricultural land, so there will be just as much access to the size of the lease, so in determining the maximum area, but also the sale of state land by the agricultural economy. It also concerns the recent expiry of the approved moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Croatia is like a country that died in a war with an unorganised market without a stock market of agricultural products, without hidden support, with a reduced envelope of direct support in agriculture, without market stock reserves with all the failures of the agricultural policy so far, thanks to persistent work and the pawning of our farmers still ready to produce food for its population. And I sincerely hope that there will be a dialogue between Croatian farmers and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, to which the Ministry without binding the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. I personally believe that any amendments and additions to the rules must be made in cooperation with those to which the regulations apply. Only by such an approach by asking our farmers about their policy needs can they adequately respond. Bringing legal solutions from the comfort of the chair Croatia risks an even greater depopulation of rural space and a threat to domestic food production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104456	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and RF, the Honorable Representative, Željko Lenart, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104457	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I wish there were at least 10 farmers in this HS in the range from small to large so that this agricultural production, the problems of agricultural production, and even state agricultural land, and the rest here could be discussed from more perspectives of those who experience it. I'm sorry that I'm the only one here who's going through it in all segments even though I don't own any squares of state land, but as far as agricultural land is concerned, I think very bad lords in the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act is the name of this law, and mainly this debate comes down to state agricultural land. Although private agricultural land, private property, the constitutional category is private property, it is touched here by two very important topics, two very important parameters, which is that the state wants to have the first purchase at market price. Although we have not strictly defined here what the market price means, is the market price determined by the tax administration or is the market price of the most favourable bidder with some kind of letter of intent that it proves that this price is offered to him and that at that price the state can buy that agricultural land privately if it wants, we have again created one uncertainty about agricultural land. The other thing about private agricultural land is that it can't be divided into smaller cadastar particles than a hectare. In a conversation with the geodetics that solve the i.e. on the ground. through their measurements, they face many problems in the division of land, in various situations concerning cadastrian particles, they say this will create a major problem needlessly. Some similar attempts have already been made through the Agricultural Land Agency, where it has been tried again with private agricultural land, and I believe that the state should then strictly specify this in order to know how to claim the right of first purchase. In addition to private agricultural land, this category of state agricultural land, which is responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Agriculture is a resorient Ministry of Croatian Forests and Croatian Waters, we have categories of land suitable for agricultural production, whether it is pastures, meadows or oracles under the authority of the Croatian Forests, which are under the authority of Croatian Waters, which are owned by cities and municipalities, means once again the unit of the regional self-government of the state apparatus. I believe that the state agricultural land should exclusively be the competent Ministry of Agriculture and must be just one category of state agricultural land is exactly what the Ministry of Agriculture has, and Croatian forests and Croatian waters themselves say they are Croatian. All that is not exclusively important to them for the maintenance of their infrastructure facilities or for the very constituent forests themselves should be submitted exclusively to the management of the Ministry of Agriculture. In the course of the competitions available, some are now on completion, they should also be given some consent from the Croatian forests and Croatian waters so that the tender can be called and therefore further stalled the processes of agricultural land availability. It is said here in the law that the reason for the new law to apply the existing Agricultural Land Act in practice has shown that there are obstacles that make it difficult and slow down the availability processes. My colleague, Davor Vlaovic, and I here warned that such a law would not be enforceable. Through the debate, we pointed to a number of parameters that would not be possible, and we put a lot of amendments on, but no one believed HSS that it was not feasible. Here we see from this position today that the law is not working, that the problem of the distribution of state agricultural land has not been solved. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 14. the provisions relating to the maximum area limit which may be leased to a specific natural or legal person shall be deleted. Isn't this a big guess? It is. Why are we guessing the big one again? Why don't we allow certain units of local self-government to determine what that is the maximum that can be given to a particular beneficiary of profits? So there would be more agricultural holdings that would expand their property with state agricultural land, more would remain operational, and in this way there would be more of them who would say that we can't get land, we're closing what we have, we're packing bags and we're going to go somewhere in some orderly European state to live because we're sick of this riot in the Republic of Croatia. There are constant conflicts between small, medium and large. Agricultural production needs both small, medium and large all of them, but constantly with some agricultural policy, and as one of the colleagues here said, the invisible hand creates some conflicts between these groups. Revision of existing lease, concession or sale contracts and economic programmes on the basis of which someone received state agricultural land should have been carried out in a 100% form. A major fraud has been made here, many have received state agricultural land based on economic programmes and have failed to respect economic programmes at all after years and now power will return to competitions for state agricultural land as those who have so far used it and will be in favour. Such people who did not respect economic programmes, who did not pay rent, such people should no longer be allowed to report to these state-owned agricultural land tenders because they cheated on the Republic of Croatia, deceived all those participants of competitions that did not receive state agricultural land. The termins of those who listen here today are our goal is to achieve, we need to increase, we need to support domestic production, the villages will be empty. Well, gentlemen, the villages have been emptied, domestic production and sales are not supported by anyone. We're not increasing anything, our production is dropping in all segments. The goals that we need to achieve, so that we put the goal in the strategy that we're going to increase from 19 to 30 billion production, so with the impact of inflation itself, we're going to increase, so we're not going to increase. Croatian policy and government have not contributed to the survival of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, it is responsible for you, even the opposite, various processes, complexity, administration, unnecessary obstacles that agricultural producers have had, they have stopped agricultural production. The only thing that survives is that quality war cultures need members of the EU who pay well, pay in time and make sure that they pay well and make good money on it. Other productions, other productions in Croatia do not stand a chance because foreign chains bring goods, sell them in Croatia and our manufacturer here... Milk of two kunas, at today's cattle prices, who can make milk for two kunas? Well, you can't even make an orphan for two kunas, let alone milk. Well, the price of milk from the manufacturer should be at least 50% of the retail price of milk because the milk that the cow is not the one you drink. Some of the fat and products that have been used further have been removed from the milk that you drink. People, let's start a farm. Let's not brake them. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104458	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative, William Matula, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104459	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In the green-left block, we would certainly like to believe that this law on cohesion that we have brought together with this Law on Agricultural Land will finally make things easier, first of all, for micro, small and medium-sized farmers, which does not mean that we are against the big ones, but it seems that all so far is at least the way people who have OPGs tell us about it, yet here we have heard about Lenart, a great deal of it has so far been for the former agricultural combinations, and today, owned by some agricultural Counts, Lords of Contemporary and who have a lot of great help. We hope this law will still bring at least some kind of help small. In this regard, we really think that Article 18, which amends Article 36, introduces the point that this is certainly a good solution. Within that point, I find it interesting that, under that article, h) or indent (h) is association and employment. How is it possible to say agricultural producer, a member of a producer organisation recognised by the ministry gets 5 points, it is okay, however, it does not say in this association and employment that, why this is not exactly a listed agricultural cooperative or there are defence cooperatives. Before that it is under g) is talked about the rights of defenders from the Homeland War, however, that one of the few cooperatives that exist in our country are these defence cooperatives and they prove to be helping people. However, if we want to encourage the establishment of cooperatives, at least we support those who have managed to survive for several years. I have spoken here many times about the experience with cooperatives throughout Europe and what research was done by the Zagreb Institute of Economics, which is why cooperatives fail us. It's not what we've heard here many times, and it's that simply in socialism the cooperatives have resented, it was certainly at that time, but it was right after the war and after that proving to the Bolshevism of '48. and in the ninth year, first of all those summers, but after that, the agricultural combinations had a large, large number of co-operatives who worked and even some still work just because they are now private agricultural companies. But the Cooperatives Act also says very nicely, cooperatives are based on cooperative values, self-help, responsibility, democracy, equality, justice and solidarity and moral values of honesty, openness, social responsibility, care for others. We do not see why this would not be worth it, and we will give it in the amendment proposal that at least, with everything else, if it writes association and employment even though the agricultural producer is a member of a producer organisation recognised by the ministry, I assume those cooperatives are recognised, but I would like it to be pointed out in particular to be marked in law, cooperative 5 points. Likewise, both in the strategy and in the documents and in the common agricultural policy adopted by the European Commission, we are talking about organic production. Everything here that has already been said about milking, about fruit growing, about farmers about everything we are unfortunately not as self-sufficient as we are in war cultures, but it will be just as questionable as this is going to be with this impossible crisis only when it is considered that we with a million and a half acres cannot possibly measure ourselves with Ukraine that is in drastic destruction, which has 40 million hectares or with Russia which, with its aggressive war, has certainly drawn the hatred of the whole world and now and the question of how long will they buy their gas and oil, especially who and under what conditions will take their grain and their vegetables, and should be taken into account that they have 150 million hectares. In such circumstances, it is certainly worth each hectare to give to serious producers, and in that sense, we are certainly in favour of being exactly micro, small and medium farmers. But I'm saying that the strategy said that it has to jump to 25 and 26% of organic production, and it's not clear to me that inside of that we can't, and we're going to put that same thing as the amendment that at least gives us 5 points. That's the shortest I can do is not use it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104460	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Reformers will now speak the esteemed representative Dario Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104461	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Minister with the Secretary of State, we will support the proposed law, we are aware that around this law many spears are being broken, that there are many groups of people who are engaged in agriculture of large, small, OPGs, all of them have their own demands, of course they look at their own interest and they need to expect it, they do not need that part of the blame, but what the state must, however, must definitely implement some key strategic things in this law that will make Croatian agriculture at least a little better. It is in this spirit that we particularly commend and thank the minister, her team of associates, for taking note of the proposed law which we considered to be very important. Of course there are some other things that we would like to change ourselves, which we would like to do in a different way, but we are also aware of the limitations and that here we have heard in today's debate here how many clubs there are various views that may be even good, but not all of them can be classified because often some good ideas are in complete contrast with someone else. I'll try to keep this speech on what's important from our HSLS angle. So we believe that the ultimate objective of this law should be to increase the exact value of agricultural production itself. It is a process that allows for the better economic and competitiveness of Croatian farmers in the long term, and it is very commendable that this law takes care of these particularities. Agricultural land is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and just by solving the problem of agricultural land is something that we need to deal with seriously, we need to take this seriously because we are going to invest huge amounts of incentives, and on the other hand, this does not necessarily mean that this amount of incentives we have seen will. Many governments boasted about it, let's remember all those billions that were beaten into Croatian agricultural production, and in the end it did not come back to us in terms of increasing production. The proposed amendments to the provisions of the law also change the way in which the most favourable bidders are identified in a public tender for leases, the criteria have been changed, and the point of commendation has been introduced, with the highest number of points of maximum 100 priority being given by the bidder. There are differences compared to the current choice of the most favourable bidder by which it was determined according to the established order of the championship and by the defined criteria. The biggest difference between us and other EU members then almost a third of the land that was once agricultural today is out of service in Croatia. So, almost a third that was once agricultural today is out of service and has mostly grown in shrubs and trees. I emphasized that twice because it speaks enough about how much we still have big problems. On the one hand, we tear and fight for every inch of Croatian agricultural land, and on the other hand we still have a large part of what has not been used. So this should be our goal in the coming years to get as fast and as much surface as possible to bring culture and return to production. To that end, it is necessary to develop a legislative framework that will enable this, but also to stimulate farmers to engage in this work. As the former states have already been affected by the depopulation of rural space and continued drastically during the years of war, unfortunately it still continues today because of economic migration. The common problem is that the land cannot be put into operation because we own our own. For various reasons, owners have left the Republic of Croatia and do not care about their property, and they have obligations in addition to their rights, so they do great harm to those who have stayed here and who would like to deal with agriculture. It is precisely this abandoned land that uncontrollably increases the population of wild animals, feral pigs that make significant damage to crops and cattle and farmers who live, who produce and who want to produce precisely in such areas. In order to motivate owners to take care of their property, but also their current or former citizens, it is necessary to just introduce fines for unprocessed agricultural land. Of course, it's not popular, nobody likes it, but it's really necessary if we want to change something and if we want to give a new perspective to agriculture and life in rural space. It should also be possible for the State to make it possible, without taxes and charges, to allow for the physical replacement of agricultural land with a view to rounding up areas between two or more owners. And alone at the head of a local self-government unit where the cities, the municipalities are the owners of certain or not owners, so we will be allowed to say we're putting a certain land into lease and there's really lots of land that are so-called. The ficleki where we think we have something, and basically we ourselves are as a unit of local self-government great brakers developing agriculture in our space. The owners therefore need all agricultural land that is not rounded up to sell to private owners who own a neighboring particle, that is, so on. You ficles. Therefore, an increase in the average working surface of a particle or a set of particles is crucial for increasing the competitiveness and long-term sustainability of our farmers, and we believe that this is the task of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also for all other state bodies to participate actively and that everything that can be done to help agriculture is done as soon as possible. I would like to stress here that this does not require a lot of resources but only more efficient work of state services and officials, and the effects on agriculture would be extremely positive. Once again, we will support this law and, as I said, I thank the Minister and her associates for including one part of our proposals in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104462	We now move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104463	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear vice president, respected ministers with an associate. So we're talking about one important law, more or less, all the MPs who discussed this law pointed out one of the most important laws. Here I am going to look back in a similar way as the other colleagues. I'm going to comment here on the previous presentations, here's specifically the previous presentation of my colleague, William Matula, I don't know if I've heard correctly, if I've understood correctly that a colleague from Wei here advocates agricultural combinations, a little bit here I think it's kind of in the context of 2022. And the context means a market economy where we're a little bit but okay because you're coming from that option it's clear that you and the cooperative that you've advocated for different reasons so someone doesn't work, and the agricultural combination, I just have to do that one, that one, prefix that socialist agricultural combination, so everything would be perfect, but that would be one little comment. So, the key thing is that we try to make Croatia self-sufficient as far as agriculture is concerned, of course, that self-sufficiency is hard to reach, but I think given the area that we have under agricultural land, yet that Croatia should have as an imperative, or that would be, a goal that should be feasible. What I would really like to warn here is that there are a few little things that may not be directly related to the law, but here I will warn you, take the opportunity, and I know that the minister here is thorough, so that she will, and she will understand what this is all about. For example, when categorizing pastures. We now have an absurd situation, and I will tell you, it's about the island of Brač where here's my family and my wife's family are also dealing with livestock and then you have a situation that those most valuable pastures are actually your oak forests, blacks and jasens, forests, because sheep, so sheep, believe or don't eat tree leaves. These pastures actually in the categorization worst rated, they had the worst coefficients, and they're actually the most valuable. On the contrary, the most valuable are those pastures that are cleaned where there is no, where there is no forest vegetation, and there except for a few weeks here or maybe a month actually has no sheep. So it's something to deal with, the one who drew it and determined it from Zagreb from the office, so he said that the forest I don't know, I don't know the oak of the locust in Spačva can't be pasture, I agree, but the Bračka forest... means garlic, oak, blacks, ash, etc. It can be a pasture and it's a valuable pasture so here's something that I would warn you about. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm also glad that the part that was announced about the cleavage of agricultural parcels smaller than one hectares will still be modified, I realized through the amendment, so it would be bad to stay, meaning the inability to split agricultural parcels in succession. This second part I understand, but this part of the inheritance here I welcome that decision to make it possible, however, to cleavage and agricultural particles that are less than one hectare. And maybe another little detail. The legislator has put somewhere that in a boosted ARCOD agricultural land can actually not be less than 500 square meters or 0.05 hectares, so that numerous arrivals and drills in the coastal Croatia cannot simply enter the OPG system, and they are, believe it or not, extremely important for the functioning of the meanings of some OPGs. This line should be reduced for coastal Croatia because if someone has one extremely rich and valuable 490 squares drill that is processed means where the orica is it should be made an exception. In the coastal Croatia, such spaces should also be able to enter the incentive system, i.e. the state aid system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104464	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Ministers, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. If we were to analyse the current course of debate a lot has been said in general about the state of agriculture, most of it was gray and black and it was trying to show that absolutely nothing was right without specifically making some suggestions that possibly this law would improve because of course there is always room for improvement. I am not speaking here in general, honoring the exceptions that have made an effort to propose certain changes that have been partly followed by what the Committee on Agriculture has adopted almost unanimously and at its session because I think it is important for such a strategic and circular and fundamental and basic law that we have clarity so that there are no ambiguous interpretations and that we do not re-emerge in any of the problems or administrative obstacles that we have been able to witness so far. We all agreed that this law is important for the future of Croatian agriculture, that it is particularly important for the survival of Croatian villages and generational restoration and that for this reason, through the very system of points proposed is important to make emphasiss on what we have foreseen in the strategy, which is what we advocate, which is support for small and medium-sized family economies, it is a support for domicile economies in relation to perhaps those who come from the JLS area where the competition is being called, it is support for young farmers. In this sense, the law also follows strategic objectives, emphasising livestock production which is indeed in serious problems and particularly recognises those branches of agricultural production with which we are at a deficit, which are meat production, milk production, fruit production, vegetable production. And the incorrect information that has been made here is that nothing has been done on this issue, but we do know that the covid crisis has introduced a major food supply market disturbance and that the ministry has repeatedly reacted to aid measures, and even after this disturbance has occurred due to Russian aggression on Ukraine, the ministry has also reacted because it has enormously increased the prices of artificial fertilisers and seeds and brought a package of 200 million kuna for farmers, 75 million kuna aid to fishermen, and I will remind you that it has reduced VAT from 13 to 5% to fresh domestic food. Of course, we expect traders to follow this VAT reduction, and I personally advocate the creation of black lists of those traders who are raising their margins rather than reducing VAT. That there were problems with the availability of agricultural land and the fact that even in some units local self-government there were physical accounts and threats. These are situations that must certainly not be repeated because they were obviously not only on the edge of the law but outside the law. So once again, I would do well to read precisely what the law says in listening to what is said, which is that those who have acted in any way against the law, who have not implemented their economic programme, who did not have it or have lost it or that mysterious chiriba chiriba action, will not be able to score points. So you don't have to interpret something different and the opposite of that here because it's not true. Therefore, illegal behaviour cannot be rewarded and this law clearly underlines this, as it underlines what we must put emphasis on in order to preserve the Croatian village, in order to raise the productivity and competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, which certainly cannot happen overnight. And I have to say, it bothers me terribly where, all the time, it's kind of creeping around and worshiping farmers how much support they get, and they're not able to produce food as much as we need. So I ask you what would have happened if these support had not been in these abnormal and crazy market conditions in which farmers operate and in impossible situations where they are due to climate change that really takes their toll and sometimes they take their whole their crops. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104466	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104467	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, Petir, you will agree with me that truly playing an economic programme based on which the land has been leased, then unprocessed land of used support, sublet and everything else is really setting aside for all our farmers, and therefore I think this is an extremely important topic, and perhaps a moment when we could solve this situation. You mentioned today, and here's the minister that a total of 245 contracts have been carried out, only from the municipality from which I come have over 250 contracts concluded. I believe that this is one small percentage and that we actually had to control everything or at least bring into the law a clear provision that if someone calls for a lease so far and wants to make an advantage of that 20 points, that he must clearly prove that he has really respected this programme on the basis of which he took precedence in the previous competition and introduced into possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104468	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104469	Thank you, colleague Vukovac, so I was clear, any illegality, any behavior that was borderline, which was in the sense of fraud should be sanctioned and those who acted like this should be singled out from the total mass of farmers, because this is how it gets the impression especially when the debates are being heard, and especially when listening to them, maybe someone who isn't as much in the subject as you, me, or some other colleagues get the impression that there's a publicity, fraud, that it's people who aren't doing anything and I'm terribly bothered by it. That's not true. So, the law stipulates who, how and how many points can you get in renting agricultural land. Those who have failed to meet the economic programmes will have to meet them within 2 years or who have no obligation to do so, and in the future they will have to have an obligation to do so within 2 years, and those who have lost them and who do not have them and who should have them They won't be able to compete at the competition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104470	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104471	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Petyr, I will somehow continue with all this replica of the topic that you have begun which I think is extremely important. There are always some and always ugly images that give the small, therefore small group compared to the larger group. We've never had that larger group when you went to school, so you're told someone's late in the morning. Who hears that someone's late, those who come in time because those who are late don't hear that someone's late. That's the way it is. And that's why it's extremely important, I even think that these two years are such broad arms. It seems to me that maybe those two years, but okay, I'm letting people from the ministry might have a better picture and a better view than those of us sitting in the assembly, but it's extremely important that this practice of those who have abused, who are acting against the laws to do so. People get sanctioned, that's important. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104472	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104473	Thank you, colleague Mrak Taritaš, so it is very important to underline this line and not generalize it because people who deal with agriculture are people who are mostly terribly hard to live, who do not have vacations, who do not go on vacations, who do not go on winters, who really make their bread and live significantly different lives than we do here who discuss them. And that's why I think we should always separate the wheat from the weeds, that the weeds are everywhere, like there are here among us in the agricultural sector, there are in any branch and part of our lives. Yeah, it would be good if things could work out so quickly, we're just aware that a lot of problems have accumulated. For example, the ministry has proposed a provision calling on municipalities and cities to discuss tenders within 3 months because you know that there are a lot of things that happen, but the mayors and mayors themselves said that they are entering such problems that they can't physically arrive. And just then the board went with the amendment to extend the deadline. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104474	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104475	Dear colleagues, the National Strategy until 2030 states that it is necessary to increase the level of association of agricultural producers, which can also encourage investment in the building of storage capacity and packaging of products until we see in the final proposal of this law that the concept of association is even so high-valued, and in the Committee, or the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, we even have the item and the reduction of points compared to the final proposal. So with the initial number of points 5 in the final proposal in the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, it now says that by two points, it will be replaced by the number of points three. Well, I just wanted you to do a little bit of commenting on what reason it is, since it's really generally in the European Union, the concept of association, and it's actually in the interest of producers to place themselves better on the market, the concept of association.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104476	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104477	Yes, there were no points for association in the first reading. It was introduced after we discussed it on the board as a proposal and we, on the basis of the ministry's proposal as a committee, avoided what the strategic objectives were, and the strategic objectives I said were to support small and medium-sized farmers. And we have separated them from those who are great, because the strategic goal is to support small and medium. They must have more points. The strategic goal is to support the domicile, so then we said we had to make a difference. The strategic goal is to support young farmers. So you would support a young farmer, you had to take those points somewhere. And we have been guided by this logic, that if we want to achieve generation renewal, it is important to give a number of points to young farmers who can then be a cornerstone of the development of the whole end with their innovative, creative and sustainable ideas, and in that sense we decided that the young farmer deserves five points, and the merger deserves three points which is more than zero in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104478	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104479	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petir, in the subpoint f) that speaks, I am talking about the score, which speaks of organic production and indigenous breeds. I agree, it's a good thing we cut from five to three. However, it seems to me later that, as for women or elsewhere, it is a later thought, that as we say for women or for women, it has increased to eight points. And all of these are very valuable and necessary things seem to me, however, for organic production that should increase that number of points. And nothing, I'm just interested in your commentary like I didn't see it then that it would be good to set up cooperatives as a special way possible for the ministry to recognize them without writing cooperatives. Here's what's gonna be ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104480	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104481	Thank you very much. Well, it's just, it means a commentary of association involves both producer organizations and cooperatives, so I don't think there's gonna be any other interpretations. When it comes to organic production, you remember that we even had some suggestions on the board that organic production points are reduced since, unfortunately, the organic production structure is dominated mostly by nuts and nuts, so we also listened to some examples where these parcels are not maintained properly. We, as a committee, have taken the view that organic agriculture must be rewarded with points, that these points will not be touched or reduced, that through the action plan for organic production that the Ministry of Agriculture will bring this year, this organic production will be better targeted, structured to achieve those objectives that we have set up to 140 000 ha of agricultural areas under ecological production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104482	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104483	Dear MPs now that you're talking about organic production, I was going to ask you something else, but I'm going to ask that. The certification process for the organic manufacturer is a miracle, I don't know if you're familiar with it. So at one point when you get into that system that you're an environmental producer, there's actually no control. So the controls are minimal, negligible, so after you hire that certificate to get a certificate and that only certification is formal, formally you're out of control. Almost out of control, I'm talking first-hand because that's, there's got to be some kind of control. The question I wanted to ask here, I'm going to try because I'm still waving the rural rural rural population into lower education structures, do you think the competitions that currently exist are too complicated for that population?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104484	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104485	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. I don't know if you meant agricultural land tenders or rural development. For agricultural land, it seems to me that farmers understand what is needed, they are very interested and I do not see that these tenders are too complicated for them to understand. Can administration be reduced? You got it. This is why this law is also going through that e-rent model and will therefore allow the whole process to take place via the Internet. Of course it is for those who have already taken that step, who are so advanced. When it comes to competitions for rural development, I think it's quite complicated. Of course, it is partly conditional on the rules of the European Commission, but I think there is room to simplify, because it is almost impossible for farmers without consultants to apply to this competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104486	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104487	Dear colleagues Petir, we have witnessed that for a long time this law between the two readings, i.e. the amendments to the law, has been grossed mainly on the Committee on Agriculture and all with the aim of young farmers who are already engaged in agricultural production mainly by rotation and who have certain experience in agriculture, etc. They are domicillous to obtain agricultural land and to obtain conditions, i.e. to start farming and finalising, in some ways, in agricultural production. Do you think that this way of scoreing, or this change of law, will indeed be stimulating enough, enough to encourage these young farmers to make small entrepreneurs today in some way to start dealing with cattle, mostly dairy livestock, and to employ, or generate new jobs in rural areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104488	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104489	Thank you very much, colleague Shashin. So here is the provision that 50,000 euros in grants from young farmers can be made to start their own business from next year, which will be 100,000 euros in grants. Of course, it is not everything in the schools, that it is necessary to remove obstacles, and one of the biggest obstacles not only in Croatia, but throughout the EU, why young people find it difficult to decide on agriculture is access to agricultural land, and that is why we went to reward more young farmers to show that we care, that they stay in the country and are engaged in agriculture, to protect Croatian space, to produce food. But it was also going to add to those branches of agriculture with which we are in the deficit because we are now producing enough grains and olives to God, in particular it was seen how important it was in this crisis, but we are deficited in milk, meat, fruit and vegetables, and in that sense it was also structured the score to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104490	Thank you. We are now going back to our discussion, or our point on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land and will now be individually spoken by the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104491	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I will refer to two things in this individual debate, and it is related to the amendments and additions of the Agricultural Land Act. One thing is the relationship between this law and the way of planning agricultural land and the documents of spatial planning or spatial plans, and the other is a cadastre and grantovnica. So, everything works in the area and the management of agricultural land and the reuse of agricultural land and the definition of purpose works in some space which is inalienable good and we all always like to call on certain provisions of the Constitution so it is good to call upon and there to the provisions of the Constitution. The articles which have not been amended are Article 18 and 19 of this Agricultural Land Act defined that the opinion on any document of spatial arrangements amending the boundaries of the construction area shall be given by the Ministry, that the time limit for issuing that opinion shall be 30 days. Therefore, the ministry always has its tools in its hands that, through the opinion and determination of newly formed boundaries of the building area from an analysis it can say that it cannot be spread to a given area, that a specific area in terms of use and purpose is extremely valuable or valuable agricultural land. And that's something we should always take care of so that these provisions that are in the law defined as being on P1 or P2 are actually tools that serve the ministry when they issue this opinion on spatial order documents. And that's what all those who are chiefs or mayors amongst our ranks know. And discuss when it was in the first reading and in the discussion and in the second reading, and in the discussion and on committees there was always the darkness of the katastre and the grantovnica. Today I received an answer to my question that I referred to the State Geodetic Authority where I was interested in how things were with the cathedral for the simple reason why we like to read different information in public space, so it's good to know how we really stand. In Croatia there are 3,417 catastrian municipalities, the laws that have been since 2000, and it is further determined that a new measurement should be made. A new measurement was made for 397 catastrian municipalities. Of these 397, not all of them are in official, official use because they need to be put into service by a special document, so they are in the official use of 237 catastrian municipalities. Those basic mathematical actions you're learning up to the 3th grade of primary school are your next situation. During the past 22 years, 18 catastrian measurements were made annually. In order to make all catastrian measurements at this rate, this way and through this law takes 167 years. So, it's necessary, the data is the most frigid and baratam data that is here, Minister Paladin is probably one of the first papers that he signed because I got the answer as a parliamentary representative because I don't want to, and I always keep it very close to the data that hasn't been checked because we all like to read the data, see, somewhere written, so the cover was this or that, this is the most official data possible. My colleagues and colleagues, how are we supposed to manage space? As we intend to manage, I will not speak at all about building land because, not long ago, we have made a decision in this assembly for ten-year measurements of the construction area where the money and everything else is provided to measure the construction areas. How do we feel about all of this when according to the ways in which our geodetic profession is doing measurements to make Croatia a new measure, we need 167 years. One of the remarks that was in the first reading was let's refer, so to refer to the cadastre so it doesn't refer to the grantine. So let's paint for nothing. My colleagues and colleagues always do that, so there's always a jug on the water until it's broken. How long do we think it can go like that? By the time we think about it, we're passing the law here, the law that defines how agricultural land is managed, and the management of agricultural land and the catastrophe that we have is going to be some wrong catastra. which is not valid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104492	We have one replica, a respected representative of the Whites.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104493	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritaš, do you know how much it costs to measure and how much it would cost to measure all of the Catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, that's the first thing, so it's now transferred to local administration units or to municipalities and cities that just can't do it. I've had experience with it, I've been mayor of Samobor for 12 years, a rich city, and we haven't been able to make God know what, and I can only imagine what some smaller municipalities or poorer municipalities or cities can do. By the way, you said 167 years? How much? It is still a pretty good prognosis since the last complete catastrian measurement of all of Croatia was made during Austria-Hungarian and was done by the Austro-Hungarian army. [[- Yeah, that's what I calculated.]] And here is a good example that during the peace period in which Croatia is made by the Croatian Army, specifically to employ dozens or hundreds of students, geodesy students and to do so in a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104494	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104495	Thank you very much, fellow Whiteman, for your replica. So there are a few things to take care of. The first question is whether we really need a new measure under these conditions. We do, do we always need it? Is it enough, should we rightly allow all the changes that are going through the individual, proper procedures in the catastro, and then the changes are defined. Imagine how many times this Croatia is and now, of course, the geodes will tell me again that I have something against them. Any location permit needs a special geodetic background before today. So you need a geodetic project, so the legalizations are made footage and it's all in some drawers. That's all someone paid for and it's all in some drawers. It would just be enough to update it and put it on and get you a new state of mind. But if we don't know it ourselves, and we don't know it, it has a model of Austria. which we're doing neatly, and it could all work out. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104496	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Penava, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104497	Thank you. Dear President, respected ministers and co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The law that lies ahead of us is an extremely important tool for each country's agricultural policy and, by its importance, right behind the naturally agricultural strategy that must provide answers to questions about what Croatia produces in terms of needs, tradition, soil quality, climate, knowledge, profit etc. What does Croatia eat, or what do Croats eat? Whether domestic, whether imported in terms of quality, purity, GMOs etc. How much does Croatia produce, or what is the level of self-sufficiency? Are we a strong exporter or a strong importer which, unfortunately, is in our possession, the fact that we are producing whether OPGs, whether cooperatives, whether companies and in what proportion are produced? When we talk about Lika, Zagorje, Istria, Dalmatia, Slavonia and other regions in Croatia. After and when a strategy is established, of course, in the Republic of Croatia agriculture is until 2030. The definition should be followed, at least, by operational production targets. So someone in this country should be able to define at what time, how much do we produce and what do we produce? How many pigs, how much milk, how many cucumbers, how many potatoes, etc. Logic is very simple. If each of our peasants knows how much they produce for this winter, how many chickens in the yard, how many pigs there are, how much for their needs, how much to sell. One question is a very clear common sense, healthy peasant, logically why the state doesn't know. And that's where every Croatian government gets tested because it's not a problem in this law, it's not a problem in the strategy, it's not a problem, so it's in the papers. The problem is in the operation and in people of all levels of executive power from municipalities, cities, counties but they can't exclude the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the matter always starts from the head and because of this operationality, the inoperableness that has been demonstrated for years unfortunately we saw it at the earthquake, the absence of reconstruction, the fall of a drone, on a demographic disaster. Unfortunately, it is also drawn in the collapse of the Croatian village, i.e. Croatian agriculture. Have we ever seen in Croatia a government task itself, that in the current year, so 2022 milk production must, for example, grow from 50 to 60%. And did anyone set up a flyer and access in a way that up to 2025. Croatia must be self-sufficient in the production of milk or any other fruit, vegetables or any other branch of agriculture. It's not. Why not? Well, there are two possible reasons. One is that we are satisfied with how our agriculture works, that we have reconciled ourselves with that agriculture is unnecessary, unnecessary, non-profitable and that we have some other more cost-effective branches of the economy on which we are based, the branches of the economy or there is another branch, which is that there is no courage, that there is no vision, that we are setting ourselves up some kind of strategy for 10 years, knowing that each government's mandate lasts for four years, so what happens in 10 years is going to be. It is the only logic that is a bit sad and turns out that every farmer manages his own land better than the governments of the Republic of Croatia rule the Croatian state. And that fact is saddened by itself, but it is even more saddened that the peasant in Croatia, however good he is from the competition, cannot come out as a winner because, in contrast with the peasants from other countries, it is very difficult for multinational companies to come out as a winner because the system does not stand behind him. Until things are placed on clear, transparent figures, the criteria that are possible to follow from year to year will continue to testify to the collapse of the Croatian village and we will be weaker in every sense and so on in agriculture. So that this important Agricultural Land Act concerns instead of a powerful tool in achieving the objectives of the overall Strategy for Agricultural Production in the Republic of Croatia It'll stay like [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And so far the tool that will be in function... /The speaker is off, you can't hear. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104498	Thank you. The next speech will be by honourable representative Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104499	I'm alone now. Thank you very much, Vice President. Good day to everyone once again, so we said a lot on behalf of the SDP in our opening debates on behalf of the club where we have made it clear that we can welcome that it is trying to do something with agriculture from the Law on the Commissing of Agricultural Land to the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and now to the Law on Agricultural Land, but we also believe that it is accessing it absolutely non-selective, absolutely non-critical of all those decades, and now it has been 30 years where we have done absolutely nothing to ensure that Croatian agriculture does not come to these branches on which it is today. Because we cannot justify ourselves in front of ourselves and the interested public that a country that has based a lot in its centuries on intensive agricultural production, from which a large food industry has been developing since the 1990s. For years, she forgot what it's like to do agriculture and that it's normal to do almost anything in culture and all production has gone down. Also, we can't say that it's normal that something that worked much better in times of communism as morbidly as it seems, we haven't actually managed to run until now, and that we had more clearly implemented cohesion then than we have today when we had all the opportunities from digitization and to a number of other things that this whole process should have made easier, simpler, faster, and therefore more efficient for our farmers and all those people who want to deal with agriculture. It has simply happened to us for many years that we have missed or done nothing wrong or we have simply allowed that in something as important as agricultural production for the survival of a country and for the existence of an economic system often ends up in private seizing, mugging with incentives, muttering with whose country, who processes it, how we process it, and today we are discussing the effects of all these failures and all these catastrophic moves. All of this together has contributed to today's view in our shopping centres, the import lobby that can literally do what it wants with us, we see that neither the VAT reduction policy has contributed to a reduction in prices in this crisis, but it also had to admit that these failures in agricultural policies have led to a depopulation of certain parts of the Republic, mainly to those rural areas which, 30, 40, 50 years ago, were preceded by their agriculture with their agricultural production, namely their wealth. Because people who were taught to create literally with a lot of political wrong moves, with a lot of potentially corrupt and suspicious shops, we started taking bread from our own hands, and then we wondered how many young people were leaving Croatia, which was best seen by the last census in the Republic of Croatia and went to the baustel in Germany. What I simply must mention again is that Covid pandemic, the war in Ukraine, the aggression of Russia, inflationary pressures, the behaviour of the trade chains shows us today the best way to do our best to lead a much more meaningful agricultural policy, to do our best to bring agriculture back to the branches that it has been because we must not allow ourselves, as we have done with energy, to make a lot of wrong steps in the production of food even more self-sufficient than we are today, and in fact, the trend is from year to year worse, and we, with some of our own moves, which is best visible in that we have not been able to protect ourselves through the pension funds and politics of the state of our interests in Fortenova, we further contribute to that, as someone today takes oil to export it from Croatia, so we could be very easily brought with very many agricultural and food products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104500	We have two replicas, the first of which is a respected representative of the Beljaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104501	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jaksic, you said I believed in the omak that something was better during communism as morbidly as it sounded. I have to correct you in Croatia there has never been communism, it was socialism and I don't know what would have been morbid in that until 1990. Croatia produced not enough but excess food for its own purposes, we were not dependent on any imports, that we had agricultural industrial combinations that had been robbed, all of which had been robbed in the last 30 years, that we had a situation where the Croatian village might have been threatened, that it was unsatisfactory but in any 100 times better condition than now and as far as demographics and as regards agricultural production and as far as the complete system is concerned. So, I can't agree with you that something was morbid about people working from 6:00 to 2:00 p.m., and after noon, they were dealing. The farm. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104502	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104503	It's absolutely human and democratic that we can't agree on everything, but since it's a relatively short period of time to discuss communism as a social order or socialism is for some reason in the '90s. failed not only in Croatia or lex Yugoslavia but in most of Europe and the world. And that's why I said it was morbid because if a social economic order failed it obviously had some problems and difficulties in it why it didn't survive. But it's morbid that I believe that everyone believed that by coming liberal capitalism, democratisation, the liberalisation that she carried with her modernization we would do even better results than we had in times of communism. And today, when we draw the line, it turns out that some people like to say black communism where there was no yogurt, they shouldn't have gone to church, they shouldn't have cheered up for Dinamo, so now I don't list everything they could say was successful with all of their difficulties that the economic order created and produced more than we do today in capitalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104504	Thank you. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104505	Thank you. Dear fellow, more than 90 units of local self-government have not actually brought in yet a programme of agricultural land, and we have heard from the minister today that almost half of that total number actually refers to units of local self-government that are not at the disposal of agricultural land, so my inquiry is actually how many JLS have the resources and capacity to carry out these tenders because the fact that even those who have completed the tender procedures last almost 2 years. This is something that makes it difficult for farmers to plan for future business. And as far as this country's first purchase by the state is concerned, I don't think there's enough plan that with this bought-out country since there are no financial indicators as much as it would actually cost to buy that country, so here's your comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104506	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104507	Okay, when we talk about financial indicators in Croatian agriculture, and even then production indicators, we've never really shown ourselves there, we've had years when we've been helicopterically throwing money at incentives, and for capital investments, and we've never figured out what it has brought and how much more it has possibly been produced. He would simply dare say that in some stages of the Croatian state it was used as a way to settle one of his imaginary electoral bodies and some of his people on the ground. This first part you've set up regarding JLS I can say that I'm sure the minister here has a good initial... , but for that we should get much more support from the entire government because JLS, like we have today, certainly can't express it ourselves, in order to have that capacity, we need a much higher degree of decentralisation than we have today because we are a highly centralised country, but so far, no government has gathered the courage to finally decentralize the state and reduce the pressure of the big public apparatus that we have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104508	The Honorable representative of Ruzica Vukovac will be next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104509	Your Honor, the earthquake that struck in 2020. Banovina shows that even with a natural disaster the Croatian people remain on their centuries-old hearths with their domestic animals. This shows the connection between humans and domestic animals and the binding to their fate, which is a significant human virtue. The livestock industry has kept people, and it also preserves rural space in the Republic of Croatia. Since Croatian independence, livestock production unfortunately records constant neglect and indifferent relationship between political elites who unfortunately have not seen the importance of this sector for our country and people. The political oligarchy is largely influenced by the import trade lobby, with different escapades contributing to the devastion of the stock fund and the devastation of agricultural holdings from this sector. Over several programming periods, the EU has capitalised on animal production among its members and has achieved a level of self-sufficiency of animal products, to a significant extent even exceeded. EU members who had more financial resources at their disposal to invest in physical and material assets have reached a high technological level of domestic production, processing and storage of livestock, as well as the development of the processing industry of agricultural and food products. I bring all this up precisely because of the large number of our cattlemen, and the dairy producer, and then meat that can't reach state land for many years. I'm afraid this bill of law will not significantly change that. I must point out that the ratio of one hectare per conditional throat proposed by the ministry even though it is questionable because according to this complex system of points, the question is actually whether the previous owners will still be able to skip cattle, so the cattlemen will again remain short sleeves, not enough to save the cattle sector, especially the dairy sector, because when we talk about the economy that has, for example, 10 cows and 10 hectares that serve him for the production of feed, it is at great risk, it can happen to him that, for example, when there is no more free land, he destroys all the crops and what he will then, can happen to have his disease attacking crops, where he feeds cattle, cattle are alive, cattle grow, tomorrow when there is no more free land, he will grow, where he will feed them. This law was to support mixed economies, so the cattle warlords modelled Austria today and thus reduce the gap between one and the other. I must commend this amendment to the Committee on Agriculture and thank the president, not here, but thank her for her efforts, in creating them, but I do believe that we must consider one more amendment, that is Amendment number 5, which suggests extending the deadline from 3 months to 6 months in which JLS and the City of Zagreb are obliged to decide on a public tender for the lease and a decision to call a public tender for sale. I consider that according to the current Agricultural Land Act of 2018. Serious municipalities have already developed their own land available programmes in their territory, and have had enough time to prepare so far. Those who have not done so far or deliberately obstructed the implementation of this because, let's say, it is a demanding job, a demanding task, or because they have a certain interest. On the ground you have a large number of municipalities where, for example, I am the chief in possession of a large number of hectares, and does not deal with any serious production. These, of course, did not allow programmes to be developed, nor have they called for competitions so far. By extending the deadline for the production of the programme, we actually go on hand to them, stay for another year in possession and most importantly continue to receive their support. On the other hand, many contracts have expired, and the ministry has approved an extension of validity to 2.g. which then points out again this year, so many farmers will find themselves in new problems unless we hurry up with the availability. And the minister today found that the programmes in the largest number of municipalities were completed and delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture itself, so why give them another half year for the job they've already done. Here I must mention the current erasure of land farmers from the ARCOD where the state administration did not allow at all the conditions for the use of land users to enter into a lease contract, and in addition to that erasure to be carried out selectively. How is it possible to wipe out private parcels too?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104510	Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104511	Thank you very much, Vice President. You colleagues in your presentation have said that cattle farming has actually preserved our village and our rural space, but what I would ask you may be a rhetorical question, but it has given me the opportunity to attach that argument because I agree with it. How many cattleherds does it take to maintain one of the cattle' throats, and can it reach that land and how it comes? You have spoken in several of your discussions during our mandates and this and the previous ones exactly how hard cattleherds get to the ground, and when they manage to get to the country, they are generally insufficient enough to feed the cattle they have. If we think that cattle farming is the solution to maintain and revitalise our rural space, then a radical shift in politics and availability of state land should be made, and I'm afraid this bill does not offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104512	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104513	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic. You have really put the problem of Croatian villages on the table, so by saving both workers and workers, we will not achieve much. I really lack the courage of the ministry's representatives to say clearly what our priorities are. The fact is that cattle are exactly the ones who keep their lives in the country, so when you have cattle, you have to spend 365 days a year with them. They do not say for a miracle in the people that the cow is the mistress, that she is the mistress, and then indeed seek the servant, not the master, she seeks the servant, because you must come to her early in the morning to check that everything is fine, to feed her, to bring water, to clean under her, twice a day's meal, to be with her and at night if you need it. That won't work for you, warriors are used to a slightly different approach. I have nothing against them, and let's bark together. Only such an approach that I miss here, so by connecting military and livestock production, the Croatian village can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104514	The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104515	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Minister with an associate. I'll continue here where Rose stopped and I think it's a good message that warlords and cattlemen have to cooperate, without it there's no Croatian agriculture. A cattleman can't have as much land as he needs for 200, 300, 500 conditional throats, that's impossible, but by working with warlords and cattlemen, I think we can accomplish a lot. Croatia is significantly lagging behind in the association of only 0.47% of Croatian farmers, it is below each European average and we need to work on that. But okay, let's move on. Here are some words that have been mentioned, says self-sufficiency, production, added value, storage, land sales, local sheriffs, incentives, milk, meat, vegetables, small, medium, large, VAT, cooperatives, merchants, shoppers, unfair practices, black sheets, domicillity, youth, women all of this is part of Croatian agriculture that remains unsaved on that mosaic that we seek to make Croatian agriculture a generator of the Croatian economy. But let's be honest, Croatian agriculture in GDP is not lagging behind European countries, it is around 3.66%, and we are on the European average. But let's be honest, we can do a lot more, we can do a lot more. I consider myself a member of the Committee on Agriculture and here's a man who lives his entire life in the country that the Agricultural Land Act that we are about to end today with this second reading and probably next Friday's vote on it, give that perspective. If we read the article correctly. 18 of this law, which was once an art. On the 36th of the previous bill, we'll see that the rating system is balanced. They're equally dissatisfied and large and small and medium, but they're also equally happy and small and medium and large. I think that's basically how every law works. Unfortunately, there is a group of people in Croatian agriculture that we call farmers, but they really aren't. These are people who create the wrong perception of Croatian agriculture, these are people who make honest, honest people who live from their work, unfortunately always be in a different plan and do not achieve those goals that they pursue. I'm going to say that here at today's government meeting, the government has made a decision on support in peradarity with 5 million kuna, support for livestock farming with 31.6 million kuna, and the e-Advocacy on seed corn still remains 7.5 million kuna support for those who want to sow and here we encourage and seed production we encourage with points in this new law. 90% of allocation for rural space is already divided. Therefore, the ministry's drive, ministers often talk about agriculture quite casually here in a way of course how politicians love, populistly, and unfortunately it doesn't bring farmers well. Farmers need to be heard, they need to be with them and learn some things from them. Yet we're just politicians and I personally don't have a pedal of some country to teach here to someone who deals with the country, but I like to listen and love to participate and love when asked so if I can help with any advice to my farmers in Slavonia, Baranja and Srem, then it's my job to do here at HS. So here's what I'd like to say, and I've already told the secretary of state, as well as Marijan Petir. We should say one big thank you to the woman for what she does as a politician, as a woman who does not deal with agriculture, but 60 sessions of the Committee on Agriculture clearly say that we do not sleep, that we want better agriculture, better production, and we want what should happen anyway. But let's not deal with it. Croatia cannot be self-sufficient in all agricultural products, it does not exist and it will never or was ever to be understood. I agree with some colleagues who talked about the structure of agriculture that it was until the 1990s. That was something else. Small villages were leaning on large combinations that existed in these parts and then people were still doing their two, three or four mornings after work, and they were able to feed their children, pay for their schooling, study, or anything else. But in the end, it changed, we entered the common agricultural policy, and I think we stick to it well. And if there are as many advocates as possible, I think we can do good to the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104516	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104517	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, here's a lot you touched in your debate. Walking through our Slavonia, listening to what's on the ground, these problems are just showing up that there's a division between warlords, cattlemen, between small, medium, large ones. However, what we can say is all of these are valuable people and deserve everyone to provide them with minimum conditions just so that they continue to do what they do well and know best. Of course we show support to both small and medium, we show support to young agricultural producers. However, except for the survival of Croatian villages, both small and medium are needed. Of course, we mustn't ignore the need for those so-called. large due to highly advanced technology in their work and production, but of course also in the importance of filling the state budget because of a large number of employees working in these companies, and most of them are from rural areas, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104518	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104519	Thank you very much. He says that in Croatia we have about a hundred and fifty-two, three thousand OPGs. The average surface area is about five and a half acres of land. It is a clear sign that the toughness of these small ones is essentially crucial to Croatian agriculture, that even at five and a half hectares of intensive agricultural production can be well lived. Of course, if we talk about vegetable cultures that are very demanding, they require a lot of labour but are also more profitable than war cultures such as grain, barley, corn or other things. Therefore, we must bring back to the village the magical thing that once had. That's where it all rested at work. So everything's at work from children, middle, adults, the oldest, everyone's been working, fruit, vegetables, and eventually doing it for themselves would be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104520	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104521	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, in your presentation, mentioned employment. So did we have to reward this law further, for example, here are cattlemen who produce milk for two kunas, and yet they manage to hire someone else on the side and give him his decent salary and pay the state high contributions and thus actually keep him in the village so he doesn't go anywhere else because we didn't do it with this proposal? And I also wanted to ask you for your opinion, so the state office has made a series of recommendations in its report. One of them is to extend the ARCOD system, the ARCOD function to another of its functions, which is to see who uses the land and what function, or status of use. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104522	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104523	Thank you very much. I said in my presentation we probably didn't absolutely satisfy everything we expected. That's impossible. Let's be honest. Yesterday I spoke to some people who are dealing with serious milk production, and I'm sure the minister will testify on every Agriculture Committee, and I'm the first to say that a liter of milk has to come to that 0.50 cents in order to be worth it at all and there's no speech there. And everything needs to be done to get these people and to come to that price. It's also with this other part of you that you're talking about I read the explanation why it's not like that when it comes to ARCOD, but here are some of the things that might still have to be done, so no law is carved into stone so it can't change it. The whole world has changed in the last three months of this aggression on Ukraine. Therefore, I do not see that monolith that could not be changed if it goes to the benefit of the Croatian farmer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104524	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104525	Dear counterpart Ivanovic, you, as former mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, but also as a man who lives practically in the village of Slavonia, must know very well the situation and opportunities in Slavonian and Baranja villages. It is constantly imputing to us and trying to impose the tendency for young farmers, people who have their own OPGs, who have their own economies to move out, to leave, to leave Croatia, etc. Can you really tell us that there are such examples in your nearby or further environment that you know, that people who have circled some kind of agricultural production have left it all and gone somewhere out there or are kind of just imposing some weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104526	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104527	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think so, there's no such example. People who have mastered agricultural production, eventually being educated, now we have more and more young people who end up if nothing else, the least agricultural school and already have certain knowledge of agriculture, and that's for sure. What bothers me here personally, I'll say it as my own attitude, we can't compare the village today with the village that was 40 years ago. It's impossible to compare it, it doesn't exist. The villages grew exclusively by the development of agricultural combinations that generated, say PPK Valpovo generated about 3 and a half thousand workers. The combination of Belisce somewhere around 6,000. It's 10,000 jobs. Today Kombinat Belisce has 2,000 employees and PPK Valpovo 98 employees. 98 from 2 and a half thousand to 98 And today, the situation is completely different. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104528	The Honorable representative Jelkovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104529	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with that part in your debate when you said that in the current proposal, the way of the score is balanced. I remember when I was a secretary in the city council at our administration when I listened to the Committee on Agriculture, our local farmers. Ten years ago, the problem was that the competitions could not pass, but the great producers, and I hope that this proposal would make it different now. I also agree with your conclusion that we cannot be sufficient and self-sufficient in all simple agricultural products, we must base ourselves on what is best and not our area. But what seems equally important to me is that if we really want to strengthen our agriculture and farmers we have to ensure them a safe placement of their products on the market and the competitiveness of their products on the market. I think that's very important, so I'd like to ask your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104530	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104531	I'll be happy to answer that. That's right, shoplifters, buyers, full-time drug dealers, thieves who rule and set foot in this space, destroy domestic production, and there's no speech. The buyer you bring in first class plums finds you a plum that may have fallen down 30 percent and tells you about this product if you want to take a kuna and take a half, and it's worth 4 kunas. Therefore, we must fight unfair trade practices, we must have black lists, why not thieves, criminals put on a pillar of shame, so let people know what a shopping mall is, selling goods that are not adequate to Croatian standards and earns money. I don't mind that, it's a fight that has to be fought, it can't just be led by the Ministry of Agriculture, of course it's both the essence and the structure of the inspectorate. Therefore, there is work to be done. As long as you want, let's stick to it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104532	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104533	My colleague Ivanovic would like to give you a round of applause, you're such a good rhetorical man that I'm simply speechless. So almost everything you're saying is true. The only thing you don't talk about is where you big, where these thieves, who created big ones, who destroyed a system that was bad anyway self-sufficient, no matter what you say, was self-sufficient not only for Croatia, but for every Croatian family that dealt with agriculture. Well, every house in the country had pigs and cows and so on, so it was self-sufficient, self-sufficient. So, you're talking so nice that I really have a laugh running out on my eyes, yeah. You talk like that proverb, you know, I'm not a gynecologist, but I can take a look, that's you. Who created the big ones? The big ones were combined, and today they're big tycoons. So who created these tycoons and who made it possible for them? Just answer that question. So who destroyed the Croatian village and created the tycoons and then you'll be perfect. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104534	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104535	Thank you very much. I've never been one to hide something that's a fact. That part of the privatisation was carried out badly, absolutely, absolutely agreeing. About who, what, how, and I think it's illusory to talk about it. But let’s not look at it that way. It's black and white. That's not true. I'm going to give you at least 3 or 4 examples that point to you, here's what I listed as PPK Valpovo, was a big system, today it's got 98 employees in it. It was 2,500, they had everything alive about food production, but the place of PPK Valpovo, and none of these directors became the owner of anything meeting and grew some new systems in our county. Hence, there are examples of such and such but let go of what has happened. I'm fighting and I'm going to fight for what's going to be tomorrow, and that's the only way that can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104536	Thank you. The next one will be spoke by respected representative Domogoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I have said many times from this pay phone that he changed a lot on February 24th. He has changed, of course, into politics, foreign policy, geopoliticals, etc., but he has changed and should change in agriculture. Why? Ukraine and Russia are now the largest exporters in the world of grain and oil, sunflower oil. So that fact itself will lead to a lot of disturbances in supply chains in world trade, but I think this crisis has made us very aware of how self-sufficiency we are in agriculture. It is unfortunate that after 30 years of independent state, we can call our agricultural policy a complete failure, and I think we rightly call it a complete failure. Not exculpating any government. We're not strategically thinking anything. We have here and we have discussed a document that is so exultantly presented to us, and this is the Agriculture Development Strategy by 2030, but colleagues and colleagues that is a dead letter on paper because all the laws that we bring reflect something absolutely different from what it says in that strategy. Not only that, that strategy is not good either. I was also talking about why. In the EU's global market, we cannot decide where and in which direction we want to push our agriculture. It's going to be warfare, it's going to be livestock, it's going to be some kind of mix. We can't be competitive about everything. For example, as regards fresh pork, Denmark is incoherent, it is practically a monopolist on the European market. Of course he's not a monopoliest, but you can't be cheaper because for decades Denmark has been directing its agriculture into producing fresh pork. And we can't even guard our own, we can't actually agree on what our strategic, strategic branches are inside agriculture. Is that vineyarding, is that olive growing, is that livestock farming in that sense, say we do or base ourselves on meat delicacies, dry meat processing, etc., somewhere where we can be competitive. The rural space, unfortunately, was demoted by the word general. I can talk about the east of Slavonia where the situation is not pink at all, not even in cities demographically speaking, and the country is even worse. Why don't the young stay in the country? In the village, if it is not a suburban village, if it is not a village that is relatively close to a larger city that can then offer some jobs, the country is the main activity of agriculture. And why, then, is a relatively modest number of young people opting for that agriculture? Well, it's precisely because we're having a bad strategic resource for agriculture, which is agricultural land. My colleagues and colleagues over the last 30 years, how many times have we changed this law? I'll ask you this as a rhetorical question. Very many times. Every time we changed it, we almost changed the rules from the beginning. Every change hides the fates of families that may have caused it, but for other reasons, of course, they left the rural area or stopped farming. And I think it's about time we get serious and decide what we want with ourselves because I'm afraid this law won't even get the desired results. If we go bona fide in good faith, then I think it would be the most honest and minimal thing we can do to send this law to third reading. Of course, this does not guarantee that we will produce a much better proposal at the end of the third reading, but I think it would help to finally have a better quality and enforceable law. Because I say, unfortunately, as we did, and there have been many examples and many colleagues and colleagues before me have instructed them not to get involved now, unfortunately they're not good. If our strategic goal and our common goal is to preserve rural space, to help our farmers, not to help us say it so conditionally subsidize them, but only to be fair in the distribution of agricultural land, then I think it's the minimum we need to make, which will be a lot of amendments that have already been announced and that have already come to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104538	Dear Representative Nikolic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104539	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic. In the debate, you looked back and wondered why young people do not stay in the country and why there is a great danger of emigration from rural parts of Slavonia. So because this is exactly the kind of final bill that doesn't allow young farmers who are just moving into the business to gain advantage of the competition, which is why, because of this system of points. What is needed and what is really necessary with the evaluation of the economic programme through different criteria and the increase of points for these young farmers and that young people actually have reasons to stay in Slavonia and deal with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104540	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104541	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Well, I have to disagree with you here from this pay phone right now. I think the whole system is directed in that direction to help young farmers. See, for example, young farmers from Požeko-Slavon County who received huge money from the Slavonia project, and never did agriculture. It's kind of a miracle their dad's in HDZ, and they're in HDZ, too, but my God, they're your young farmers, and on the other hand, those who actually need a boost should most often not come to them and it's actually a tragic story of this country. That all our incentives, support, are designed to help those who do not need help in the end, and do not help those who need to, or peoplely speaking, always rub their necks on a thick goose, and the skinny one will never reach a grain of corn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104542	The Honorable Representative of the Voter and Vice President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104543	You are correct to your colleague Hajdukovic that this law is unfortunately not going to get the results we should put as a priority, but I am not surprised because we had this law in HS in our first reading before we adopted the Agriculture Strategy. And then when we look at the Agriculture Strategy, then we see that it has not touched many areas, and neither of the primary objectives of the Agriculture Strategy was so-called. Generational restoration, or what to do to keep the existing population and to mobilize young farmers to remain in Slavonia and not just in Slavonia. And, on the other hand, we didn't take care of small farmers because very little is actually what we do for cooperatives and cooperatives themselves. How do you comment if we know that at EU level there are 250,000 cooperatives owned by 163 million people who employ 5.4 million people? Why is there no room for that in the strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104544	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS. Yes, that is exactly what I was talking about, or strategically. So we say hop first, and then we watch as we jump, and I mean this is the clearest example. The strategy has a lot of disadvantages in my opinion, but the strategy was supposed to be some roof document, some clusternorm from which all the laws should come out, and we see that it's exactly the opposite. We actually brought a strategy to have it. The cooperatives brought Valda some bad noise from the former state system, and then people ran away from it, but not the people would not blame them, but would blame a systematic state policy that would rather encourage people to buy their own machinery, which is in the long run, rather than encourage them to join together, so in clusters, it doesn't have to be called cooperatives, but let's call it cluster or whatever it is, if that name doesn't suit us and work and do actually profitable business.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104546	The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104547	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Agricultural land, the law I don't know by which times, some have mentioned number 28 with various supplements, but what will mark this law is that it speaks of private agricultural land, the right of first purchase, the inability to distribute particles to less than one hectare, is first hit by private agricultural land. Many speakers here are chasing a bunch of concepts about agriculture about peasants and technology, i.e. a lack of technology. Don't think that peasants work a few acres away from tracking technology. But there's one thing that's called the justification of technology on a certain surface. Whoever has an old tractor at 20 acres didn't buy a new farmer who thinks better about his economy than the one who bought a new one to have something to go to before the beer store and boast about his tractor. Smart countries, smart farmers, smart jobs that guide peasants in their countries speak of something called the price of a tractor's working hour through its age of use on one economy. It's technology. We're talking about state agricultural land today. Who uses the most state-owned agricultural land? Great. We can call them tycoons, we can call them either way but not peasants. To those who pretend to be inert, that they have to circle around to be profitable, that they have to know what to do so that they can exist and produce at all. Gentlemen, it's not true. I'll do it a hundred times. 300 ha of nuts between Novska and Okucan. 300 ha is not for one nut plant. Who, unfortunately, has passed away, who has given him the opportunity to gain 300 ha of national agricultural land, to plant 300 ha of nuts that do not give any fruit, reads 5,000 kunas of support each year to the one who inherited it and has no production. Where's the rent? I didn't hear anyone talk about such rentability. 1300 ha of organic production. How many hands do you think it takes for 1300 ha of organic production? Where's that on the market? There isn't. Our State Agricultural Land Act after 30 years again has a Gordian knot and we are working on a new one. Nothing's gonna get rid of it. Some people are going to get some longer rock land again. Those who cheated on the economic program will not be punished, some will, but some who are more alike will certainly not. And again, on the basis of fraud, there's a new scam going on. Some of them get rich on that again. Gentlemen, one hectare of roles in the spring seed costs between 12 and 14000 kuna. 20 acres is over 250,000 kuna. So I'm asking you, where can a little peasant today find $250,000 cash bad? I'm not talking about debt. I'm talking about borrowing. I'm talking about red tape. Every peasant produces on the unseen. He doesn't know what the climate will be that year, and he doesn't know what the price of the harvest will be. Although cereal is known to buy thanks to God I have to say, here are the Italians, the Austrians who buy it. That they don't buy it, we're all ruined. We've all fallen apart like dairy, like pig farming, like fruit growing, vegetables, and not counting any further. Why did they fail? They don't have a buyer. Foreign chains have been brought in to sell their country's goods normally. Well, they won't sell ours. Well, if we had chains like that, they'd let me sell other people's goods, not ours. And now we're back in business with state agricultural land. I can't say it was the minister's fault. Listen to what we're saying, here's what I need to confirm that I'm listening to what we're talking about in the frames of a possible installation of what we can do. I know she's being handed over because she listens to someone from the opposition, but it's not about the minister, it's about the politics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104548	Stay, stay. You have two replicas. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104549	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lenart, here you are truly deep in this topic. You're one of those MPs who didn't just learn about it at theory level, so he lives on it, and he's really deep in it. In your opinion, why do we have such a problem with cattle farming when we know how important cattle farming is for both biodiversity and the whole story? We can almost say, paraphrasing from cattle to bees. So it's all connected, meadow, it's all connected. Why is this not enough in our focus and what are the problems for you in the Croatian state that we have so many problems with beefing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104550	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104551	Well, we don't have a beef problem. We have people who can do that, we have good genetics. Remember that famous baby bief that's more impossible to produce. We have a problem with wrong policies. We have a system of cows – calf, traditional pasture that can produce calves for the tov that is not sufficiently recognized. At one point it was, then it was brought down to some lower levels, even though the day is working today. Milk production. Well, they did it through operational programs down the farms that failed. Why did they fail? Because people are drawn into loans, programmes, and simply by falling milk prices they could no longer produce. There's our problem. Wrong policies. We didn't protect our production. Is it normal for milk to be in a store of 8 and a half kuna and 2 kunas in a buying-in place? It's not normal. Who can produce it for that price? Who can make a living out of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104552	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104553	Your Honor, I'm really sorry you have to talk about this law and talk about it with so many emotions. I know you have problems similar to me with pressure, so it probably raises your pressure further and it causes more problems. But since you're deep in that subject, I'd only ask you for information if you know maybe anyone in this country has ever done a land audit that's been leased, a state land that's been leased by some cattle farmer who's had, for example, 100 pieces of throat, and after two, three or five years, only 50 pieces of throat, and still has a hundred acres of land in lease?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104554	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104555	Well, I don't know if anyone's been audited, so I think it's the wrong question for me to ask the Ministry, so maybe you should write it well and let me answer that. The fact is, like I said in the debate, there are frauds on economic programmes, many of them got land based on cattle and livestock, and then they simply wiped out all the cattle they had. It's a classic scam, and we should never participate in a competition like that again. Why is it allowed, whether this revision is going to be done, whether it is done, whether someone knows who all humans are or some people are never going to know each other, and before this other because obviously some people have a glass on them so they're not allowed to keep them safe. This law still suits the great. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104556	Thank you very much. Next in line is the individual debate of the distinguished MPs Ankica Zmaic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104557	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-worker, when in this assembly at the end of October last year, in the first reading of amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, many clubs and MPs joined in this debate with certain proposals and remarks followed by Minister Vukković and his team, the Ministry of Agriculture, made certain suggestions and remarks and incorporated into this Final Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. All in order to enable faster, more efficient and more transparent availability of state agricultural land. The creation and development of this very important law leading to the improvement of the agricultural land distribution system has been attended by a number of stakeholders from the Commission itself, the Committee on Agriculture, Assembly representatives, various associations and organisations, local self-government units, and two public consultations have been carried out. And the result of all this is certainly the perspective and development of agriculture for the resuscitation of the Croatian village. All previous laws on agricultural land until 2018, which included some MPs who were also favored in this meeting, or one agricultural branch was advocated, while these amendments and additions to the laws that are being upgraded to the 2018 law were intended to change the structure of agricultural production and association of war and livestock production, and the point is that agricultural land must create food for both people and cattle. Agriculture is an activity that binds the village and rural space, and how to encourage our young people to stay in the country, to deal with agriculture if we do not provide them with the basic and most important resources, which is agricultural land. The strategic issue of the future of Croatia is demographic revitalisation and therefore we encourage demographic measures and enable the remaining and survival of young families in the country who truly want to deal with agriculture and who love agriculture. The final Law on Agricultural Land provides for the reduction of the deadlines for public tenders, obligations, production and control of the economic programmes that we have heard today in this debate about the economic programmes of previous years. Electronic implementation of public tenders, setting up a new score system in line with strategic objectives, availability through temporary use goes further into the past. Certain penalties for the unauthorized use of agricultural land have also been prescribed, for failing to carry out the annual report on the implementation of the economic programmes again and for a number of other good provisions that will speed up the availability of agricultural land. I would like to stress that the introduction of a rating system is a very important criterion for the exercise of the right of the championship in public leases and I support and welcome it both as a parliamentary representative and as a municipal chief of staff who has had a lot of experience in implementing and implementing laws where I have encountered certain difficulties during the implementation of agricultural land availability owned by the Republic of Croatia. The rating system took into account the domicillities and small farmers, education, ecological production, support of domestic production, association of war and livestock and all these criteria should allow fair availability to agricultural land and wind in the back of young people to keep it on our family farms, which is one of the main objectives of the Agriculture Strategy because if we do not have a young generation, there is no future in rural areas only, but also in our beautiful Croatia. What intrigued me was that the number of cattle for tov was from domestic farming, but I don't think in this situation and this present situation it's possible for us in Croatia to have a deficit of calves because of the decline in cow farming due to the unfavourable price of milk so that these criteria will not be met. The logic is that any breeder who deals with tow livestock would buy a calf in its environment or region where there is no administrative costs but must go to neighbouring countries Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic etc. Buy a calf. I must express regret that today's assembly is empty, and the debate is on the Law on Agricultural Land, which is a very important law and special interest in the Republic of Croatia, and many colleagues and colleagues very often polarise that this law is a dead letter on paper, that it is not part of strategy and agriculture and that there is nothing good in agriculture. And lastly, I support these amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land and thank all those who have contributed to their suggestions to enable the law to implement more effectively the procedure for the availability of state agricultural land and the increase of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104558	Thank you, you have 3 replicas stay, stay, stay, come back, thank you. The first replica of Honorable Representative Shashin, please. I don't know if I'm an accent good or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104559	Dear fellow Zmaić, you have been in politics for a long time, and as the head of the local self-government unit, you must remember the time when agricultural land was practically excluded from local self-government units and you know how much land was given or not rented at that time. Do you now consider, given that local self-government units are re-using these amendments to the law in the jurisdiction of the agricultural land, that units of local self-government will have sufficient capacity, sufficient capacity to make agricultural land available within 6 months in order to put it into service as soon as possible or given to those who do not need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104560	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104561	Thank you, Mr. Shashin. You're here talking about the agricultural land distribution programme as far as I know the law provides for three months, not six months of this final law, so we might consider it a little bit. Furthermore, I am a long-standing municipality of chiefs, and I've been law enforcement since 2008. on agricultural land, and I've come across a lot of unpleasantness and not to mention the establishment by the Ministry of Agriculture of 2013 and 2015 where temporary use contracts were awarded, and we in local self-government units didn't even know who those persons with whom contracts were concluded with certain bidders were. And now by this law these amendments and the additions of the units of local self-government I hope to do my job for which they are in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104562	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104563	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Zmaic, say she is hoping to be saved unless she is Nada Dimic. Here you are, here you said in your debate... that some colleagues are polymizing, that the dead letter on paper, the law like this, so maybe I'm on the team, I don't know who you mean. You said this law would do a lot of good, specifically here I am doing tell me what are the specific things that are so good in the law that they're going to run that distribution of state agricultural land so well and that many who have now invested millions in the machinery won't be left without that agricultural land, that those who have nothing won't get anything now, so they'll have to move from the beginning? And did you ever invest a few hundred thousand kunas of your money in agricultural production, look to heaven, pray to God that you welcome the fall to comment on it and turn it over without these thieves cheating on you, steal his grain to survive your family until Christmas and beyond Christmas about that money?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104564	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104565	Thank you, colleague Lenart. I also remember a time when Đakovština had disappeared wheat and when we had lost our money on dedicated wheat in Đakovština and we still didn't do it today. So I'm a child of agriculture, and I know very well, and I know what is done in agriculture, how it is produced, how it comes, when it gets lighted up, when it's back up, and when we wait for the rain to fall and these days just as it rains, it's going to contribute a lot to our cultures. I believe this law will help because first, we will solve the economic programmes that we have concluded for 10 years and where the economic programmes are written only wishes and greetings. And I hope so, because it's a large amount of hectares in those contracts where we're going to have power under this law to either fix or break up, but I think there's going to be more breakups. Furthermore, the same thing that's important will be the merger of both wartime and livestock production, so far I've been saying that it's just... on the fact that there's warfare. a to livestock production [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] No one ever respected livestock. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104566	Time, thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, the distinguished representative Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104567	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Zmaic. For two reasons, I answered, the first to be chaired by the esteemed representative, Glasovac, does not preside over so often the vice president, so here is to keep me in mind, and the second reason is because I know you well and know where you come from and that you live in the country your whole life, you do agriculture and you live in agriculture. Now you're the head of the local self-government and on the trail of what the esteemed representative Shashin said you followed well how the law changed, how much in fact the brakes were set in some time that I just think that we were out there in 2012 and still went very badly. This law still doesn't give hope, this law has finally put things in place. 100 points, electronic registration, no more local sheriffs, no more locals, today or you have or you don't have that many points. I think I agree with you that the law is not ideal, but it's great. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104568	Thank you, thank you. I apologize for just one remark, so this when we chair it depends on Mr. President of Parliament and Organization, so you, as a majority, advocate that this job be fairly distributed, not only in favour of me but also in favour of the other opposition president, Vidovic, and not all of the "power of the presidency" is concentrated on one side only. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104569	Well, here's a colleague, Ivanovic, not only has the law not been fair since 2012, and in previous years, I remember 2008 of the law where the ministry was assigned again, I don't know who or what, and especially this one from 2013 I don't know who or what, Clay, this part of Like, etc. He comes to Slavonia to win land. And as for the local sheriffs, I don't know them like that, if you know them, I don't know if you've heard of them. A little joke. This one, I really hope, will contribute to this law, I hope that it will contribute to a better availability of agricultural land and where local self-government units will take the seriousness and responsibility and we have set some deadlines that should be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104570	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure? You can go to your seat, thank you. What's the matter with my colleague Lenarett?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104571	Dear Vice President. Art. 238, so here I would like HDZ deputies to agree whether we have these local sheriffs or not. When I mention that we have local sheriffs, then the trees and the rocks on me, and now they're saying that there are, one that doesn't. A colleague says that many contracts will break, and here we have a colleague Ivanovic here again saying a score, here's what I'm starting to doubt again whether it's going to be a real score or if we're going to break someone up or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104572	Thank you. This was a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, or abuse of the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. And now we continue in the magazine tone, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ivanovic, which article of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104573	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, 238, but there's more to the correction of an incorrect quote here. We don't have that institute anymore, so I'm gonna stay here and hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Voter: There is no such thing.]] Just a moment to explain to Mr. Lenart. We spoke well, and Ankica and I, excellent. This law will actually prevent it, and Ankica just said she didn't know it like that. Therefore, there were no misunderstandings, and I think it was very well elaborated and there is no need to doubt at all what she said. There are, but there will be no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104574	Enough! Injuring the Rules of Procedure, you've injured the Rules of Procedure you have a warning. And if you don't mind, my colleague Mandaric has been up three times already, trying to get up for a pay phone and not at all. Here you go, buddy Mandaric. It's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104575	Thank you, Vice President. It's really different without a plexiglas now, finally. Dear Madam Minister, along with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs. Today, a story about the adoption, or amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land, should be concluded. The story's really been spinning for a long time, the second debate twice on the Committee on Agriculture, either on the Committee on Locals, so I don't really know how many times I've had these papers in front of me anymore, so let's do it this way, shall we? But here we finally have a proposal today and we see in the procedure the Assembly sent and part of the amendment. In the reply to the Minister's opening statement, I briefly referred to the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture, and said that I certainly support what we actually do, let's raise to a higher level the production of seeds and cartilage. I think that's quite okay. And I've allowed myself and prepared a few more amendments to this bill, so I'm going to use these incomplete four minutes to briefly explain. In Article 15, paragraph 5 states that a public tender is being opened for all available agricultural land in practice in order to prevent any problems I propose to add beyond that paragraph six which will say that, exceptionally from paragraph 5, the tender can also be opened for part of the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, of course, all with the consent of the Ministry in the event of legitimate reasons or more force, that we do not come into a situation that states that we have to call for anything and for some reason we cannot and then the whole system is blocked. In the same article, paragraph 14, which defines the production-technological whole of the same from the practice of an example of one difficulty that I suggest here that we may be able to solve in this way when we do not have a harmonised state in the catastro, grants as to how to say the board, in case one board is not a single particle we actually made it impossible to call a tender for agricultural land. We also have this problem in the area of Djakova, and I know that many municipalities, cities, have this problem, so we suggest that we do a little bit of correct this Article 14 so that we say that production technology units can be cadastrian particles, or parts of cadastrian particles that correspond to the real state of the area of the agricultural and technological unit regardless of the data that are, which culture is shown in the cadastrian opera and land books, of course, so that we can conduct a competition over such areas. I say huge surfaces on our local self-government unit, as well as on the neighbors. We're actually stuck and we can't dispose of that land. In Article 18, I would suggest that an additional little clearer definition be made of connection in such a way as not to mention related societies, but related persons. I believe that the concept of a related person is a broader concept than a related company, as the related company could in practice only involve related companies, and the related person implies both a natural and legal person. Somewhere in the law, society is mentioned, somewhere person, somewhere legal, somewhere physical. I think the expression is a connected person we should standardize throughout the law because the wider one involves the whole story. In point C, I'm going to do it one more time, and I said it in the first reading debate that should be the most important thing to us. Domicile, small agricultural producers. I use the term agricultural producers on purpose regardless of the design, so whether they were a family agricultural economy, whether they were a craft or a legal person in the rank of micro and small entrepreneurs. I don't know how I'm gonna get home and explain to someone why there aren't equal points, and just because it's not an O.P.G. or a craft, it's a small company. It doesn't explain it to me. I suggest that we resort in this way to the solution that exists and in the existing law. Furthermore, in Article 55, Shaslin asked his counterpart Zmaic, where the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture was proposed to extend the deadline from three to six months for the adoption of the Decision on tendering. I would suggest that we also increase that deadline from three to six months to make available. I think maybe that's where we passed in communication, that both deadlines increased from three to six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104576	Thank you, dear colleague. You have two replicas on your exhibit. First Reverend Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104577	Here's a thank you. Well, fellow Mandaric, here's a good point of principle. It's a technological unit and a cadastar particle. So some twenty years as far as I've been dealing with this topic of state agricultural land, it hasn't solved the problem that we have technological units that still have a few particles in them and the state hasn't been able to solve it for each technological unit to be one particle that would make it far easier for these competitions and the problem of availability to the state agricultural land. And the other thing that you mentioned well that I agree with you, now you're going to say here some of this is how you can get along with someone from HDZ. Well, I can, because a man said a good thing, because it doesn't matter what the organisational form is called, whether it's an OPG, a twist or not. It's important if he produces it. It doesn't matter how big his production is, and right now he needs to look at you less, because they turn most easily in a crisis than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104578	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104579	Thank you for saying the remarks may be productively technological as well when I was 2017. I started acting as mayor of Djakov. I'm gonna have to tell you a lot of time to actually figure out what the problem is and why we can't discuss the competition. It's not that we didn't call the competition because the existing law was too bad, so we didn't want to call the competition or that we were lazy, so we didn't want to, but we simply had a real problem with the unsettled sides of the land, land books and conditions in the catastrophe. The story that we are going alone in the measurements of entire catastrian municipalities was simply too expensive for us and for the city we were still waiting for while in cooperation with DGU and with our county to go to the cadastrian measurements one by one of the Catastrian municipalities then we will come to order. I suggest that we don't have to wait until we're in line, because who knows when it's going to be, but maybe, with this kind of intervention in the law, we can jump into that problem and make it possible to call a competition on such existing boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104580	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104581	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President, Your Honor. My colleague, I'm sure all these amendments that you've suggested that they actually come from experience since you're from the mayor of Djakov. What seems very important to me is that you mentioned the amendment you propose in the article. The 15th century of the 5th century, which is that part of the land can also be given in this land, not just total land. If the intention is to put as much land as possible into a useful function as possible, then it's a really reasonable amendment that should certainly be accepted, of course these other amendments, but you know a lot more about it, but this is what I've been communicating with ours, and the farmers say it would be very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104582	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104583	Well, yes, it also seemed to me that, that, that it is quite important that, without intervention, such an amendment would be interpreted as either being called for anything or not at all, in particular we have such a situation in Djakova, we still have some over 1,000 hectares of unresolved, unsolved agricultural land in a way that is not under long-term lease, we have little land and for which they are settled, it is neatly arranged, paper is arranged both in the catastrus and in the garland, and if we don't, in my opinion... The kind of solution I'm proposing would turn out that for this part that's been arranged we wouldn't be able to call a contest because the law says we have to do everything we can. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here I hope that the ministry will study this proposal of mine and possibly whether or not it makes sense that we would, of course, prevent the situation from being able to call a competition because of some small part of the unsettled land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104584	Thank you very much, no more replicas, you can go to your seat. Next, the next debate is one of the most respected representatives of Stipan Shashin, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104585	Your Honor, ma'am. Vice-President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here's finally this one, if we'd welcomed this second debate about this, I'd say a very important law for our farmers and ours, for our villages. Indeed, there have been a lot of objections and a lot of breaking of this bill between the first and second readings, a lot of amendments, and here we have finally done it in some way and I hope that soon, soon, we will adopt that law. Today is a nice time and time is seeding in Slavonia and Baranja, but a large number of our farmers sit in front of screens and watch this debate because this law is very important to them, of vital importance to them, unfortunately we don't send them a very good message like this to a half-empty maid, they realize how much we care about maybe this problem is, but good thing it is. The biggest or most important objective of this law is to increase agricultural production and this increase in terms of finalisation or increase in value, the final value of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia on areas already processed and which some will be further put into operation, but mainly on those areas where grains, olives, etc. are now produced. that from these same surfaces means through livestock production, through final production or through vegetable or fruit production creates additional value and thus generates new jobs and ensures the possibility of survival and survival of a larger number of mainly young people in our villages. This bill is indeed extremely transparent, I think it has never been so transparent so far that virtually every interested person, anyone who applies to the competition, can practically calculate for himself how many points there are of a total of 100 points. What is most important to me, which is really that we have in some way enabled young farmers, farmers who are already engaged or who have been renting and who are processing agricultural land, domicillin farmers, who are from this area, or that catasteric or municipality of food and people who are mainly intended to deal with or are dealing with livestock and, in particular, with dairy livestock, this means that in some ways they can achieve the highest possible number of points and practically those farmers in these tenders should be an absolute advantage or must in some way come to agricultural areas, and that is the basic prerequisite for this particular goal that I just said a moment ago. This, most importantly, what I say is important in all of this that apart from this war production that we're about, thank God, here's the meaning of grains, olives, etc. self-sufficient to cross or to those so-called small or medium-sized farmers who today have, so they are not exactly small areas of 100 to 200 hectares in some way to stimulate them to start to deal with finalisation or livestock production which can only generate new jobs on these surfaces or in those rural areas because we are simply restricted, the land is no longer, there is so much, it is in Slavonia and Baranja now practically all worked out. It's probably in the hills, etc. A little bit of poorer quality that hasn't worked because it hasn't been worth it so far, but in these most valuable parts to say here it's all in function and we're going to have a hard time getting to some new surfaces. It means what is the goal of encouraging these people in some way to become entrepreneurs in the right sense and to employ 5, 10 and more people in their economies and thus to become sufficient both in meat and in milk, eggs and all those products that have shown themselves and which, unfortunately, are still insufficient in our agricultural production. This law, which is also very important to me, protects agricultural land no matter how anyone interprets it, but really protects land from the possibility of buying foreign nationals or people from other countries in such a way that the state has put on the right to purchase on all surfaces of more than 10 hectares in this continental part, or over 1 hectare in the Mediterranean or coastal part. I think it's very important because by entering or creating conditions now that foreigners can buy land in this way we've still protected that land so that we don't simply have someone buying it. And it was here today. Discussion... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104586	I'm sorry, you'll be able to get through the replicas, you've got a lot of replicas, so you'll be You open the space to say something else you possibly left out. [[Okay, thank you.]] Let's go in turn, the first replica of the distinguished representative Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104587	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of the assembly, esteemed colleague Shaslin, so here you have repeatedly mentioned the notion of self-sufficiency, unfortunately the war in Ukraine has affected that there has been an announcement of shortages and oily tails and sunflowers, corn, wheat. In Croatia we do not already have enough production of pork, juniper, we do not have enough milk production and we are forced to import the same. Of course, by the Law on Land COMMASSATION, we hope that we will address the problem of unprocessed land, and precisely this Law on Agricultural Land, we expect an increase in production, but also a stabilisation in terms of the amount of food needed and the provision of self-sufficiency in these times of crisis. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104588	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104589	Thank you colleagues for asking, this and you yourself said that practically agriculture or food is beginning to be, or becomes, a strategically important product for each country. We see that some, or Ukraine now, affected by this war are practically one of Europe's largest cereals, this question is that all of this will be reflected together in the quantities of food and food supply throughout Europe. I am convinced that Croatia will not be hungry and that Croatian cereals will always have enough for themselves as it has always had and will have enough in the future. But what about milk is really there, they all recognized it, it's clear to everyone that we really have to try in every possible way to encourage people to deal with dairy because it's embarrassing that this price is so small, and there are 8 and more kunas of milk in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104590	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104591	Thank you. Dear colleague Shaslin, you come from the far northeast of Croatia, from the flat beautiful Baranja, but where there are few hills there. When we talk about Baranja, somehow immediately the first association again is Kopački rit, but me among the first associations is one of the most fertile countries in Croatia. So please, here's a clean maybe comment and a little bit to throw back thoughts about how the agricultural painting of Baranja once looked and do you think that maybe it should change into the future to make more, to make Croatia more self-sufficient and more efficient in agricultural production and, of course, in that agricultural food industry and food production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104592	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104593	Dear Mr. Mandaric, I believe that you know the situation in Baranja, but also in Slavonia there and here I can tell you that thank God for the practical provisions of this law will not have a very large reflection on the state of agriculture in Baranja because there already 10 or more years ago 95% of agricultural areas have been put into operation or through long-term lease or long-term concession or through lease or sale. Practically formed economies, people lords, they do agricultural land, they round up their own agricultural production, and there isn't, the worst would be now if these same people were left without those agricultural areas. But I'm saying there are local self-government units that made agricultural land available long ago, and that's what I'm saying, 99% in function is. Now, what's left is a little bit that's going to happen right now to this, this law is going to solve, but I'm saying there shouldn't be any bigger earthquakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104594	Thank you very much. The next replica of Honorable counsel Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104595	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke of a provision relating to the right to the first purchase of the state and to state and private agricultural land. This provision came from good intentions to preserve our strategic resource, which is agricultural land. I agree with you that it is necessary to determine the areas of which we speak or from which we start because it would be too much administration if it really refers to every particle if, for example, someone has a famous buyer for the house, and the garden has to offer to the state first, it doesn't make sense. As a result, the Committee proposed an amendment that determines that for the coastal Croatia it is from one hectare further, and for the continental Croatia of 10 hectares further. So do you think that this solution can help meet the main goal of this article, in fact, why it is proposed, which is to actually preserve our agricultural land for Croatian farmers and to preserve it from potential malversions and buying foreigners.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104596	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104597	Here's a thank you, thank you colleagues for asking, so I thought I'd do exactly that question, or that in some way, because we would really bury all the experts and all of this if we were to make an assessment for each hectare, etc., every grandmother if she wanted to sell a hectare of land that she had to report it to the state first, etc. I think this really is an optimal one solution, it's a different thing to say for the continental part and different for the coastal part, or this part down south, because simple and specificities are like that. The hectare of the country there in the south means a lot, here with us without 10 acres practically I don't think there's any such investors out there that would go to the lousy particles shopping less than 10 acres, etc. There have been such questions already enough whether there are agricultural areas, but all over 10, although as many as 50 hectares where people are interested in buying, so I think this is a good form of protection for Croatian land.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104598	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation, distinguished representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104599	It is known that malversions have already begun, so it is difficult to discuss this law as an optimal solution. But I am really interested in the practice of how do you expect this law to protect our country in the sense that it remains in Croatian hands when it is known that our purchasing power is almost the smallest compared to the rest of the EU and our land is the cheapest? And what I would be interested in from the perspective of just you as a parliamentary representative is a type of strategic assessment that would be the land that the Republic of Croatia would be interested in if it was offered the right to buy it first, let's say what would you say about what the state of Croatia would buy, and what might not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104600	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104601	So first, let me tell you why, why maybe the price of land in Croatia is like that. It is true that the possibility of paying or buying the power of our farmers is much smaller than that of EU farmers, and for this very reason, and because of the inability to sell land to outsiders, the price is exactly like that and I think that it is good, although there has been a lot of incorrect information here today that the price is not 20, 30 thousand kuna, it is not true, it is moving in Baranja now somewhere 10, and even more thousands of euros for a hectare. And as for those interested in Croatia's land, I mostly think it's about boards or technological units where it's possible to organize a quality agricultural production, especially rat's production, which means small-boiled surfaces, I certainly don't think they're in the interest of buying them from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104602	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Let's go to the next individual debate, it's all right, thank you very much. It's the honorary representative of Troscott's turn, here you go. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104603	Honored vice presidents of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and respected citizens who follow us. She's just saying, "Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ yes, the malversions have already started and I have seen that the minister has turned her eyes in asking questions, but the fact is that Fortenova is now in the hands of the Indotek group from Hungary who has taken over 40,000 hectares now in Slavonia and that you now have Hungarianization of Croatian agriculture and now we can bring this law here today, but this country is today in Hungarian hands, pardon, in Russian, so I am aware that we have not protected with this agricultural law therefore our land, namely that we have hidden Russian capital, which, as certain sanctions are being placed on, but we know well that they are also a minister, and Orban are therefore bound to Russian capital, which is seen very well from the ownership structures of financial and energy companies in Hungary and it is well placed by Mrs. The wolf's prime minister's question, so these are strategic things where we already have a loss of our sovereignty in agriculture and chains. And yes, the malversions are on the move and we can discuss here as much as we want, so we'll have to come to the sale of these land for the reason that we're late with the moratorians, on these moratories what we've been looking for we haven't met, so we said we'll increase the land price, we're talking about the average of Croatia, Baranja has that price, but on average Croatia is not, and when compared to 560 thousand per hectare in the Netherlands, so that's 20 times the price, so that's the reality and then the Dutch will come and the foreigners buy land instead of the Dutch, the Danes and the Italians coming to Slavonian Ship which they come. There's a tech lab, so why don't we show them where our young students so they've built a technology lab from hence production to entrepreneurship to scientific research and education and put it together in a way that a farmer from such a holistic approach can live from his contributions, and they're offering about 14 grand per hectare somewhere. Which is next, what did we do next? Here sits the minister, so what is the result of all these 29 times how much this law changes so that in one government term we lose 10 Peljeka bridges on agriculture. It was mentioned in the moratorium that we were going to do the circumnavigation of our land, so for the last 15 years. that last time we said Yugoslavia was surrounded by more land than in 30 years. Croatia's independence, 500 thousand football playgrounds still gawk empty. So the thing would be the worst you know in which county the least circumnavigation was made? In Dubrovnik-Neretva County, from which the minister herself comes. Furthermore, as regards yields, they are 70% lower than the EU average. If in the Croatian education system there is an average score of three, 70% less 0.9 means one, one sits. It's an assessment of what we've done, and now we can discuss here, we can find ourselves here, we can give extra amendments, but when we look at one, one time series of 30, so when we look at it, there's almost one change of law every year, and when we see that these are the parts of Croatia that are most evicted, where we don't have, so that's, that's defeat. That's what we need to talk about strategically. The good question here was what would we have done then, what would we have done? So, there's a model, Slavonski Brod has withdrawn funds from the EU in pre-accession funds, built a school, a lab where Dutch, Danish and Italians living from agriculture today come and look at how students do it, and we don't need 29 times the law, we just need to sit on a bus and go to high school students to show us how the country's agricultural strategy is being run because they have everything from themselves to the market, so that and entrepreneurship have and technology have done it, and we're here 29 times changing the law, how they can do it, how children from 14 to 18. With good guidance, Prof. The sprays and all the teachers who put it together how can they do it? Well, here's the farmers looking at us. 29 times we changed the law, we didn't help the farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104604	Thank you very much. We're going with the replicas to your exhibit. The first replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin. Excuse me, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104605	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, I don't have the right to a replica anymore, so I had to, I had to really respond to this exposure. This Regulation shall enter [[/Intruder Voter: What is injured?]] Because a completely distorted, irrational picture of the state of Croatian agriculture is really being created, which is absolutely not true. [[Subject Voter: Good.]] Don't create anything that doesn't stand. You're talking about agricultural land prices that have fallen in Baranja. In Istria your agricultural land prices are still three times higher, in Međimurje your prices are also three times higher. So it's not like that, it's not such a bad picture of the situation. agriculture. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104606	A reminder for you because you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just a second. Dear representative Selak Rasdic seems to me, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104607	Article 238 dissuasion of parliamentary representatives. A fellow Troscott has the full right to express his critical opinion, and in this way his critical opinion cannot be interpreted as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Croatia is not only Baranja, but also Istria, but also many places in the interior in which the country cannot get such a price, but is often not even sold. So when we talk about Croatia, we should keep the whole country in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104608	Thank you. You have a warning, too. Let's move on. Let's get to the replicas at last. Dear Representative Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104609	I'd like to thank the president. My colleague Troscott, I fully agree with your presentation, but I am obliged to look in some way at what your colleague Miletic said in the debate on behalf of the club. It concerned a farmer, more specifically the owner of pigs in the area of Novi Zagreb, in the area of Jakushec. So it's about people who keep their animals in an area that, according to the urban plan, the space of mixed residential and business purposes and in no way is intended for the keeping of animals. For years, that space has reduced the quality of the lives of the people who live there. These animals were held there illegally, and it was actually about a corrupt practice by Milan Bandic because some of the pigs were owners of the OPG and members of his political party on his list and the fees paid deeply, deeply affecting the existence of the rule of law. So, not all farmers are the same, no one against farmers has anything. But what was happening in New Zagreb was And it's still a shame. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104610	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104611	I would like to address the first part of the exhibition by Mr Miletic, where he was actually giving a picture of Austria as it is quite normal that even in one smaller place, so you have how much I understood in the presentation of the church itself, the place, the school and finally, so you have domestic animals where people are automatically given to them, so that they can see, that they can live from the offering and therefore the farming of animals and agricultural products. So that would be the main message as far as I figured it out. So he even fenced himself from Vienna at the beginning, where he said we wouldn't grow it in Shembrun itself, but it was a perfectly normal thing. And I'll confirm to you, say, when we went to the tournaments in Germany we slept with families who had cows in the household themselves. So it was also my first encounter with a home family farm where people by the house, so they had a place where there were cow stops and it's in that part, so Germany and Austria are perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104612	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104613	Dear colleague Troscott, I have two questions. One concerns this issue of Russian capital and the possible systemic risk to which the Republic of Croatia is exposed if there is indeed a sanctioning, for example, Russian gas in view of the amount we supply from Russia through some of our companies on the Croatian market and how much we depend on it, and it is also related to this very sale of land and some other companies in the Republic of Croatia that could be affected if such sanctions occur. And the second question concerns what you were talking about at the beginning, which is the malfeasances that followed before the law itself came into effect, or the government's confirmation of the amendments to the law when everything went urgently pitched especially near the coast, so that it would be sold out as soon as possible, and then we read about how investors find new ways of playing the law when the purchases are not possible here I quote because the customers are foreign citizens. Plays on a map of the right to use land and similar real... due to the lack of inspectors and ineffectiveness of the state [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To avoid it, it's required to descend to the local level. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104614	Whoa, 14 seconds, that's a little too much. Please stick to the time. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104615	To the first part of the question I would like to answer you that the crisis system is huge for reasons that in all EU decisions, the Commission was said to have sanctions on both Russian capital and Russian property. If the largest gas importing company on the basis of a long-term contract signed in 2017 with the GASPROM, if Croatia puts sanctions on that gas, it is somewhere around 20% of the gas on the Croatian market, which will disrupt the energy market, em which will disrupt the ownership structure in Fortenova, given that the same company together with its owner has more than 30% of its ownership shares, which via debt instruments. So the systemic risk is huge. And as for malfeasance, therefore, especially since in this law the general resale of land has fallen to the state level, where the state will now still have to grant additional land sales permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104616	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104617	Thank you, Vice President. You were talking about land prices. It is true that according to the latest EUROSTAT report a hectare of land, agricultural land in Croatia is 3440 euros. It's about average. And there's oranges and meadows and pastures. You know it's not worth the same and it's not worth it everywhere in every part of Croatia, so colleague Shashin is right when he says what it's worth in Baranja. So I could say how low it is on Banovina, and others might look back, but that's the average. [[I said on average.]] So the average and rises from 2013 to 2020 by 20%... [[Agreement: Average]] But we need to analyse the reasons that are such from the lack of circulation, irrigation, access roads infrastructure to knowing for yourself that the moment our land is placed on the international market that prices will rise rapidly, it is our aim to protect our land by this law to get into the hands of Croatian farmers. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But I ask you for an explanation because I didn't understand you very well how you think the Hungarianisation of Croatia is happening, in what way? Those who have lease contracts shall have lease contracts while they conduct them and until they run out. It is Croatian land, so no Hungarianisation can happen in Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104618	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104619	So Fortenova, Forten, therefore, passes into the hands of Hungarian, Hungarian companies and Indotek Group, and they have 40,000 hectares owned only by Forten... Okay, but it's not in our hands, is it, so... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But it's not in our hands, so it's not in our hands. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] What's the problem, so that's two problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104620	You'll find that in a coffee shop inconclusive, let your colleagues respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104621	So problem number one is that first of all we have no sanctions or quasi are sanctions because it is not Hungarian capital but hidden Russian capital for the reasons that Orban and his father-in-law are therefore connected to Russian capital, and the owner of this group through Bloomberg's reports is therefore visible so that he has concluded a lot of contracts with his father-in-law from Orban, so that at the end of the day he bought it, he did absolutely nothing in a Primosten where he bought already a group of hotels, where Primosten stares empty, where one chair is not replaced, so that he will do something on the land in Croatia, I doubt except what it is just a conversion geopolitical trick until the situation in Ukraine is calmed down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104622	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Honorable MP Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104623	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Troscott, there's our minister, she's been with us all day, she's tired already... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm interested, and I'm actually asking for the minister's sake, is this some kind of play, actually, and I'm asking for the minister's. The bees of our colleague Troscott and the minister, a few years ago, what happened to us worse, when a few million of them were killed, disappeared, as far as I know the state inspector, we still don't know who's to blame, so we still don't know who he is, who's responsible for these bees being killed. Now we have another up in the area and the Prelog is only about 700 thousand again say about 2 million bees have been killed, so I'm wondering how it's possible it's been so long that the state inspectorate doesn't find out who's responsible, who's responsible, and I hope the minister is going to screw them up there, to stop it from poisoning the bees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104624	Okay, thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104625	Dear fellow Miletic, you see yesterday the vigilance of the Prime Minister himself maintains so that he can chew chemically, and our minister chews, but on the other hand, more importantly, honey as such is important, is a strategically important agricultural product, and I think it would be important for the inspectors to discover the cause of what really happened, so on these several occasions that we had the killing of these bees for the reason that it would no longer be repeated is the key, so that they would go out on the ground to really see what happened about this pollination and to once lay down these reasons and to set up an institutional framework to help them, perhaps it was pollinated at the wrong time with the wrong substances, etc. This and that once they decide that it just doesn't happen anymore is honey really important to us that it is seen during the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104626	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the esteemed representative of the Vukas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104627	Dear vice presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So now I'm going to hang on to the bees when my colleague Miletic and Troscott opened it. Well, look, we had a law here maybe 10 or 15 days ago about some application, sustainable use of pesticides, and we talked more or less about bees. We had two or three years ago. I don't know how many bee killings we haven't come from a vacation yet from this sustainable use of pesticides we've come up with again a problem with bees because it's basically a systemic problem in agriculture when these things don't work, and above all they don't work in inspection. in the very work of agricultural inspectors who are few and who work for small wages and then always form a commission that should be investigated and never explored. As for malfeasance, as my colleague Troscott says the malfeasances have begun. We now have a few years to get back to Agrokor and see what we've done with that famous Lex Agrokora. I was never Ivica Todorovic's lawyer, nor will I be, but practically we kidnapped the company, in a way all these advisors were charged, and now we have after this Lex Agrokor we have that we have transferred the Croatian company to partially Russian hands, and now from Russia to Hungary. I agree that it's a lease, it's not a farm of that agricultural land, but as soon as you're hired and you're in charge of all the contracts, you're practically the owner of that land, is that for the fifth year, is that at the age of 25? And you with that land can do according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia whatever you want. That's where we made the mistake. As for fellow Lenart when he mentioned 300 acres of nuts, this is exactly what these bad, bad, bad laws have been going on for years which the government has been in, in power because it simply didn't take away that agricultural land if these nuts didn't conform to the profession in the 5th year. they grew as long as they needed to grow, if they hadn't given as much fruit as they should have, it would have taken those 300 acres away and made available to someone else. What my colleague Ivanovic says is small thieves petty diletaries, you reminded me of your former President Sanader when he's on the... We're gonna put them all in jail, see how it turns out. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a resume? It is a summary that we in our Croatian agriculture have not moved away from what we did wrong at the beginning, from privatisation, from the first assignment of agricultural land. My colleague Hajdukovic says that we will go with one proposal conclusion in the third reading, I agree with it from the collegiation with him, but that we go into 103 reading we can't fix what we did in the '90s when we distributed that agricultural land as badly as we distributed and when we played in being big. We've been playing big for years, and when we're big, we'd start taking care of the kid now, but the kid just can't survive under these conditions. When I say small, I mean someone who works up to 10 acres, I can't survive. And as far as the minister herself is concerned, I have no objection to you, you are trying, and I really think that the former ministers have done a lot of damage in Croatian agriculture and that you work 38 hours a day cannot fix those peas that were. We see also your President Tolusic that the question of how it's going to end together, I don't want anything wrong with him, but it's a whole ugly picture. An ugly picture when we have an ex-minister who suddenly remembered that maybe overnight he should become some kind of winemaker and build some kind of, make some basements, and maybe he doesn't have 10 chocolates of his own. All together we've been doing laws that didn't please our domestic indigenous farmers, and I agree with my colleague Leonard that large areas of organic agriculture, little products, and I don't even know who that labor force is in that organic agriculture when we know it's hard to find someone down in Vrgorec today to come and pick you strawberries when it's season. And all these laws have always worked out for the big ones, they haven't done anything for the little ones, and I don't see how we can fix it together. What you would appeal to us to try and see what we can do to help our farmers with their blue diesel, and to try to help our seeders to at least those who now exist on the market to manage to preserve their seed production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104628	Thank you very much. Your debate has caused numerous replicas. The first in line is the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104629	Dear colleague Vukas, now that we have returned to the story of honey, it may be useful to raise the subject of beekeeper's status in the Republic of Croatia again and to damage the law on beekeeping that has been passed, which has given great authority to the association of citizens who have been previously accused of corruption, up to the price of honey and VAT on honey that makes its production and sale more difficult, and now we just see how difficult it will be. But what we think is particularly cynical when we talk about agricultural land is here, and the answer we could hear about when the state would be interested in the right of first degree, so for some large land we hear. And we were able to read in our agriculture strategy that one of our greatest treasures, imagine what, the fact that we have so many abandoned agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia since the state hasn't dealt with them in years now would be a ransom deal so now it gives us an advantage because we can develop imagine ecological production. So I ask you to comment on it, and it concerns the state's care for agricultural land in RH. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104630	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104631	Thank you, so you've opened a lot of topics. As for honey itself, we know what else happened a few years ago, that he got off the honey shelf, when the chemical analysis was done, then it was claimed it wasn't honey. That's one topic. The second topic is that really in recent years beekeepers are in trouble and they need help because bees have experienced various diseases and it may take a few years for beekeepers to get rid of it all together. And what happened to the bee-murder I think is there, there should be greater cooperation and someone had said that a fielder or a luggard that there should be greater cooperation between the people who deal with agricultural production and the medlers themselves, that beekeepers, that they know exactly when something is going to be sprayed that whatever happened, doesn't happen. And as for the lease or purchase of a state of agricultural land, the state will only buy if someone big stands on the side of whom it will be able to resell. I don't see that the state would go shopping for these squires that she'd been leaving for years. So that doesn't make any sense to me or that the state in one law would lease and with The other side to go shopping. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104632	The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104633	Thank you very much. And my colleague, Vukas, we agree on a lot of things and often, but in one thing I cannot agree with you, and that you have no objection to the work of the minister and that some of the guilty Drina cannot be corrected. I can't, unfortunately, it's been too long and we've had a missed agricultural policy for a long time. But if I were to make a list of failures just from the term of office of this minister, I wouldn't have had enough all afternoon, let alone this minute. We want the Seed Act, we want to talk about this law now, we want to talk about a strategy on the development of agriculture that clearly serves nothing when there are no laws, but here we have it, we want a whole series of other laws that don't actually improve the quality of our agriculture, nor the life of farmers, but they just complicate it. I won't say how reactive we are and that in the situation of this crisis and war we are actually reactive instead of being proactive. We haven't even secured the state supply, because obviously that's the minister's problem with what we have and how much. So that's where we absolutely disagree, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104634	I didn't defend the minister, I just said the minister is trying. And on the other hand, the fact that all the mistakes of the minister are not, I won't be any secretary's attorney, but I agree that the Seed Act was bad, but I think, first of all, that professional services created it and that it wasn't the Minister's fault itself, but that all the good things wouldn't have been there lately screaming and screaming at all those laws that were coming. I don't think everything is good, and now whether the Minister's work is good or bad, the general picture is of Croatian farmers who are in increasingly difficult conditions, we're not self-sufficient in anything, the milkers are on appliances, the people who deal with it can't handle it. Currently, only the warlords are satisfied because of the price of the mercantile, but the overall situation in Croatian agriculture is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104635	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104636	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You can give us an answer, to the Croatian public, we've talked a lot, a lot about this topic here. So, what we as a state can do to protect our honey producers and that honey comes to the shelves of Croatian shops and in the end I would say, let's say, let's say, openly, that what, that chubby from China and the rest, that sugar with everything that's called honey isn't really honey, that in one way legally legitimate, what we can do, that it can't even get to Croatian shops. I mean, if I speak well, maybe, maybe I'm a little weird, but we're tired here all day, and I forgot to go to the restaurant. So what can we do to preserve among Croatian producers, quality, real honey?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104637	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104638	So look at me, there's something more we can do to save the real honey because we missed the chance. We missed the opportunity to help the beekeepers through their production, we missed the opportunity to distribute Croatian honey through, through kindergartens, through schools, through dormitories, we missed honey to talk through domestic supply chains and help us see how this honey can come, we missed the opportunity to brand a product of Croatian honey in Dalmatia, one in Slavonia, one in Primorje, one in Lica. As for honey itself, we've been wandering around here for years, and now you're getting the advice that those people in fact who love honey have some private medals they've known for years, go to their house and buy a bottle of honey, but you're just going to buy a quality bottle of honey in some shopping chain, there's no way, because first of all, our price manufacturers can't be competitive with that import smut that flooded the hypermarkets, and here I think we've lost any chance of our medals. We see it on the shelves of the hypermarket. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104639	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104640	Dear colleague, here's a question I'd like to congratulate my colleague Pavic on his birthday, and here's his birthday, so I'd like to congratulate him. Here's an honest college. [[Applause.]] My question is next. Here, imagine the situation that someone in Dalmatia now wants to sell their land that they have to ask the state, so if they can do it and at what price they can do it. The first question is, do you see any problem in this, and the second question is, do you see this administrative problem in terms of how long that answer will take, who will answer that, what are the additional procedures? So you can no longer determine the buyer yourself now, but it will be the state that will determine whether the state can buy first and second at what price. Do you see the risks in that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104641	Well, here's two problems, I think it's a birthday and a turtle to Lenart, so here's what if we congratulate her on the Turtle, not just Zeljko Pavic. As far as I'm concerned, I see two problems here. [[Applause.]] I see an administrative problem that will certainly complicate this procedure and see another problem, I see no clear logic, if someone wants to sell their land that is not that price market offer and demand. Which is why, if the state can really buy that land for which you got the offer I don't have any, I don't mind buying it state. However, if the state is there as an obstacle, and you don't see the price of the market or what the price you can get that day for, for that plot or for those few thousand squares, I think that price should be offered to the state, if the state can buy it, then I don't mind, if I don't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104642	And I'm congratulating birthdays, and here comes the birthday boy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104643	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Your Honor, I would just like to draw your attention to a few sentences that you said in your presentation. First you said that one part, most of the land, which is about 40,000 hectares will now be used by a Hungarian company, on the other hand, you commended the minister, and here I am taking the opportunity to draw attention to the minister so that she can really get praise in a way that she cares about the land currently rented by other companies. In what way? We know who's running land control, the quality of the land. It is Croatian, Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. However, the minister will soon prescribe a regulation to control the land. Isn't that right, Minister? You have, the law says that you will implement or you will write a rule on the control of that land. You have the opportunity to sharpen that control and ultimately make that land the quality they need to be, not the kind they want to leave behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104644	No, as far as the land itself is concerned, which is now 38,000 hectares owned by Forten or by that Hungarian company, I don't see any big problem, these are finished particles, it's Belje, whoever took it will know how to manage it. It's just a question of why he came to get it in his own possession or in a lease that could be between five and 25 years old. No one who's got those agricultural surfaces, I've been on those surfaces so I know what it is, no one's gonna let themselves not process such areas in accordance with the Agricultural Law... production, first of all, of producing more to income more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They will certainly know by mastery, they should not have come into a situation to master it. That's where we made the appointment. When they get it, they'll certainly take care of it, they'll certainly be working on intensive agricultural production there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104645	The next replica is Renata Sablar Dračevac's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104646	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, do you agree that we have too much unprocessed land in the Republic of Croatia? At this point, we find ourselves in a situation where the war in Ukraine has changed relations or the possibility of the amount of modeled, modeled surfaces. Was this the moment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia donates seed and this is the best one of our domestic seeds of cereals or corn that we need for, for cattle food, to donate blue diesel and now that these, this large, vast percentage of unprocessed land are being sampled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104647	The problem is these lands aren't functional land. They're getting more or less chicars. We're talking about agricultural land, it's unprocessing chicares, and that the state donates anything there might be a few years to bring these surfaces into operation, and we know how it ends when the state starts to donate something to me then it's a situation of my own, I mean in today's state when we have three ministers who are probably going to leave, 3 who are shaking, who would sign something to donate, what criterion would be on that donation. And in that respect, I was commending the minister unlike this predecessor who was before her, who worked at the piar agricultural production and overnight became a winemaker and a great megalomaniac, which was my praise, but it wasn't my praise in those laws that came because he certainly wouldn't be discussing these laws that I think are bad. So, unfortunately, we are, the state hasn't taken care of its agricultural areas in years, it's turned into squires and we're now discussing who's going to get that squirm, and that's not what we should have come to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104648	The next individual debate was a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104649	My fellow MPs and MPs. This here is a 15-hour rush, a 15-day rush that President Gordan Jandrokovic sent to the resolution ministries, each and every one of them because they didn't answer my parliamentary question within 30 days, I guess the answer wasn't easy to find. Among other issues is the Minister of Agriculture, I will try to shorten it and paraphrasise it. I asked for an answer on how many different committees were actually formed at the level of the ministry itself, but also in the context of the laws that are in the works and competences of that ministry. Here we are, in particular, discussing the Agriculture Act. In the implementation sense when we talk about the allocation of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia we have several different commissions that form at the level of each unit of local and regional self-government, we have a commission to rent, we even have a commission to sell, we have a commission to enter space, we have a whole series of commissions. Now if there is one general, and unfortunately a painful and accurate idea about the Republic of Croatia, it is that we have an excessively bulky, and slow, trom, inefficient, very often unprofessional public administration, and now on all that apparatus that our citizens are dissatisfied with, and they pay it, add a variety of committees. Committees at the level of local self-government, and especially in smaller municipalities, let no one blame me so where I don't know a thousand two residents form about one by one by grandmother, one by uncle, one by godfather, one by cousin, and all sorts of others. So my idea is also what I propose and what it changes through both this law and a number of others I ask that we strengthen professional professional administrative capacities. Now even under the Law on Local Self-Government, more units can form one body, but then make it professional, and these commissions are additionally paid, these are some kind of less transparent fees. So Croatia simply can't go on. And the fact is that there have been very good debates about this law and I am glad that at last HS is discussing one law properly. I must also commend the work of the Committee on Agriculture, and I would really like each of our committees to do so and indeed when we talk about amendments that we are exactly sticking to matter, but these amendments certainly do not fall within that circle of amendments that will be accepted because they change the essence. I'm not talking about how we're going to score those who appear in public tenders, you've improved it well, I'm not talking about whether we're going to limit the tickling of parcels and hectares that are given to someone, I'm talking about who people are and who the bodies that are going to carry out such an important matter because other than these commissions from this law, here in the Minister of Agriculture's portfolio we have others, we have Commissions for Compassion. Do you know what the expertise is and what the capacities of these people are, with all due respect that they are the most honest, so we can't have a uniform practice, we can't have standards, we can't have the objectivity of doing where the neighbor decides and we can't have an effective control system. And speaking of control, I have two other big and strong remarks. The first is that the Republic of Croatia does not have a system in which it can monitor and know what it has and what it has. We have the Ministry of State Property that manages other properties, building land, business premises, housing, but here's the agricultural land is in the area of work and the jurisdiction of the other ministry, and neither one of them has a comprehensive database to see which property, which is the most important property, which is given to management and availability and whether someone pays the agreed fees, there are no such controls, and there are absolutely simple IT tools in the country in which the party in the power of the bus in the chest is known digitalisation that does not even have, so let's introduce public registers, public registers, not records with which one of the authorities, public registers and introduce a system of effective payment control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104650	The first replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104651	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreshkovic, I agree with you, but I would like to underline one more part, all the failures of these laws. When we were talking about the combination of land that is extremely professional, long and expensive process we want to trust JLS, JLS that have neither financial nor human capacity to implement it all the way. You've talked about commissions in which grandmas, uncles and cousins are, etc., but in small communities and small municipalities that will be entrusted as well as a commission seems like you just don't have a lot of people to choose from, even with the best will to do so, so look at election lists, often your wives, sons, daughters, the property on the list just to fill out the list. So these are all the shortcomings in our micro management and micro, micro-local self-government. It's the same thing we should think about when we pass laws like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104652	Yeah, two principles conflict here, one principle of centralization, not good. Here I talked to those who had experience in implementing that when we had this system that the state institution carried out these lease procedures that and it proved to be not a very good and happy solution because the local environment knows best and I respect it, however we have an excessive territorial fragmentation, we have 555 cities and municipalities with insufficient capacities. Some environment, some form of association is necessary, but in any case the body, so that apparatus, that administration that implements these procedures can't be ad hoc appointed, we can't give the local leader a chance to choose that there are 5-6 people who know or don't know whether or not we're going to prescribe the criteria for their appointment if it's simply not a professional and professional administration, and that's exactly what created the state of injustice and unhappiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104653	The next replica of the respected representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104654	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Oreshković, do you think it is by chance to avoid the establishment of just one such register or regulation on how to keep a register of contracts and charges among other things and to meet the objectives of the economic programme if what you said was a recommendation of the Office of State Audit relating to the availability of agricultural land and whether it was by chance that the regulation was in public consultation, and never saw the light of day or what it was actually about one meaningful intention where honest people and small farmers would have nothing to do with keeping records, if the tax administration could publish a public list of debtors why the Ministry of Agriculture could not publicize all this information, and in fact honest people have nothing against it, but someone apparently fits this particular hunt in murky and chaos that at this point is governmental or concealing information from the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104655	Yesterday I said it for the apartments that the case of Frka-Petesic and Banozic shows how well it is hunted in the blurry. But here we're talking about small people, farmers who really don't live luxurious lives like Mrs. Wells said well. Petyr, I agree with that. I do not believe that this government has the ambition to create something noble, good and useful where it is seen whether the state charges in its budget what it belongs to, and I am deeply convinced that I have watched as some other countries do it, this is very easy to implement, these are de facto Excel tables translated into some information programs, and what tragically is actually a very little cost, and it brings tremendously great benefit. And here I hope that among the MPs of this call that will continue to be active in the future life, some, perhaps, in the next 11 symposium, will try to implement everything that we are talking about, and this other side has no will to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104656	Time. Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104657	Honorable MPs, this law will be very difficult to implement. What's actually going to happen after the law is passed, we don't really know. You know why we don't know? The law has 61 articles, and in Art. 57th says the secretary has to pass 17 regulations, 17 regulations are to be passed. You know what that means? This means that within three months, it should actually redefine that law in order to be at least a little more enforceable at all. We must welcome this part of the economic programmes that currently do not exist or should be delivered to JLS, it is truly commendable and should be done, but there are a lot of things that simply cannot be implemented and this should draw attention to both the ministry and the minister to pass a new law that, to discuss it once again, to try to pass a law that can be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104658	As far as these smaller ones are concerned, I call them less cosmetic changes, I think the law is an improvement, and that's where I say congratulations and to the Committee on Agriculture. But what should really be done should change the model, it should change the concept and then it doesn't matter how many articles the law will have, maybe some better law will have 100, 200 and 300 articles, but it will contain everything there should be. I'm also opposed to the practice that we see especially often in this session, which is that everything is solved by the rules. This means that the assembly is taken away from the power that the constitution holds, and I'm not talking about the technical details that are more practical than having such an act that does not require parliamentary procedures, I'm talking about the crucial things that they must, but they literally have to remain in the work and jurisdiction of the legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104659	Next is the individual debate of the respected Vice President Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Certain steps exist that this new bill will make, and this will also contribute to the Committee on Agriculture's amendment, and in one part they also match our amendments to the procedure, but here I will use this time only to point out some other things that bother us or hinder us to fully support this law. First, what we consider to be a direct contract for smaller agricultural land areas is acceptable only with the aim of rounding up parcels because in terms of provisions relating to sales, when we talk about this point, we are actually interested in who will decide and we are afraid that after the sale of land, it may be repurposed or in another type of construction or the question arises whether after the expiry of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners in 2023 it will be sold to them at significantly higher prices, whether in this way conditions may be created for another wind power plant or some similar project and we are against the sale of natural resources and the creation of a presumption of a discriminatory relationship with our farmers in which we will find ourselves able to buy land, and the small others remain without it. It's our first grudge against this law. Secondly, an economic programme that should be some basis that needs to be valued because if we give some land, then we need to know who we give to and why we give, or for what purpose. And okay, if we set this economic programme as some kind of condition, it is illogical that in the existing provisions is actually one of the reasons for the termination of the lease agreement is to fail to meet the objectives of the economic programme, and these objectives are nowhere prescribed nor are they an integral part of the economic programme pattern. Third at the score, we've already said that in a way and through the replicas. What we think is that the score should also be aimed at revitalising the village and creating new jobs, of course, which, as a side effect and a key element, will have the creation of sufficient supplies of healthy and safe food. However, what we feel is that we should seriously consider retaining new generations, those who have not yet decided to deal with agriculture in order to encourage them in some way, and therefore we think that young people should, perhaps, consider whether the ministry should try or consider creating certain reserves in close cooperation with local self-government units that would enable these young people who are just entering this business or some kind of call, which would allow them to apply to a public tender or to be freed from paying certain duties or specifically those once-in-a-lifetime fees for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the building or rebuilding facilities to provide housing for young people and other interested in the rural area, because in this way, we act in a two way. Third, it has already been mentioned here, the government has been loudly announcing the merger of cadastres and land books as reform measures that have not been realised. The recommendation should go in this direction so that the Ministry of Agriculture starts to carry out procedures under official duty together with other state institutions and collect and coordinate relevant data and documents both for citizens and for local self-government units because the fact that most of the income goes to local self-government units or remains with the JLS and the City of Zagreb, but given the many measures that are required to implement under these legal provisions, we believe that the additional costs for them are not acceptable. As regards the registers of reports and records, we believe that in this sense a step further, that it should be more transparent and that at least once a year should be published means all information about the public having insight into the availability of state agricultural land. We also talked earlier about this part of what were the recommendations of state audits. It is important to know who, in fact, are all forms of renting and selling agricultural land and whether state land is used, whether it is in the function of agricultural production or the means to provide support. The control system is also something that needs to be strengthened and what would have been much better would have made this law much more quality-oriented is that the strategy for the development of agricultural and rural development had not been delayed for a year and a half, if we had made a strategy for a ten-year period and set goals in it a little more clearly, then we would probably be much clearer and what we want to achieve among other things and by this law as one of the essential arms for its fulfillment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104661	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104662	Here's an apology, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, finally respected colleague Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104663	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, at the very end of this debate, we can conclude that this debate has indeed been a contentious one and has produced many suggestions that I hope can still be reached by those who need to be reached. Agricultural land is a national treasure and of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the importance of land as a basic resource for food production is fully reflected in the conditions of global crises and war activities. There is a real danger that moving out of the rural areas of Slavonia will continue and continue and that with this fact we must be faster, more quality and, in fact, this regulation brings a fair distribution of land that is actually becoming a demographic issue. We have made proposals and we have submitted over 20 amendments to the SDP Club and our support for this law will certainly depend on accepting our proposals. We believe that the new rating system will not contribute to a fairer distribution of land and will introduce still certain uncertainty about who has the advantage of cattle farmers compared to wartimers, for example, large owners who employ a certain number of persons or smaller OPGs. The only solution is actually to make more countries available, the more real state land to give to the interested so that some of the previous owners can still use their country, and new owners can use it without having to take it to someone to whom it belongs so far. So, the only solution is to work on the fair distribution of state land through programmes that local self-government brings to it, and the deadlines are really short. We believe it is justified to extend the time limit for making available for local self-government units from 3 to 6 months. If the ministry has passed a rule for almost 4 years and has changed the law three times during that period, then the extension of the deadline is the least that can be done for local self-government units. How many capacities individual local self-governments have to carry out these tenders also show defeating the data on the implementation so far, and now the provisions are actually prescribed that the ministry will also carry out jobs unless they are ready or able to do local self-government. We believe that it is necessary to draw up a unique record by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests for all land described in the catastra as agricultural land and to enable it to be leased, hence increasing agricultural areas that can be rented. We put forward our proposals about the score system, and what's really left unscheduled is systematic control. Namely, agricultural directors who were introduced by the Agricultural Land Act of 2013 For the purpose of control of abandoned private agricultural land or control of the implementation of agrotechnical measures by natural and legal persons, the system worked almost 10g. and made it possible for JLS to jointly employ the agricultural director of the agronomic profession, and to report in a quality manner on the state of agricultural land in their territory. Surely there are improvements in that part, but certainly not in a way that reduces the contribution and recognition of the profession. It is now proposed that the agricultural director be an official, and the agronomic profession is deleted as a condition of employment. It is also proposed to remove the possibility that JLS jointly organise these jobs, we wonder who is in the interest and why the agronomic profession is actually being kicked out of almost all the laws prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture. This is almost a universal conclusion of all professional gatherings and conferences organised on the subject of amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land. The financial effects of this law are provided for means for an e-rent information system which should contribute and simplify the overall tender, but not for land purchase funds, so we ask ourselves, in fact, what long-term plans for countries with this purchased country are the basis of the first purchases and why no necessary land purchase funds are provided. Finally, we recommend that all the programmes available to state agricultural land be adopted since the entry into force of the law on 9 March 2018. audits, as well as all published contracts and lease and sale contracts concluded on the basis of these unclear criteria and provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104664	Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's go to the next debate final, on behalf of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will speak to the distinguished colleague Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104665	Dearly beloved, we have witnessed a drastic reduction in the volume of agriculture, particularly livestock production in the family economies in the last 20 years. For the good part, this is the result of inadequate agrarian policy which did not take into account the specificities of our economies such as small holdings, older populations, lower levels of education already tried to create producers that would be competitive for producers of developed countries that have been operating in a regulated market environment for 10 years. It is forgotten that agrarian policy must also have its social component, not just a marketable, small producers have left themselves to the mercy of the competition, knowing in the beginning that they are losers. The results of this relationship with small and medium-sized farmers are devastating. We have entered the EU politically ready, but very much the principled economy, especially agriculture and its most significant branches of livestock farming. Agriculture is ruled by an import consumer, not by a domestic reproductive production logic characteristic of strong economies within the EU. The problems associated with Croatian agriculture for many years have deepened and become an increasing burden by joining the EU. They are about organisational weakness and strategic decapitation of the state administration, market instability, high indifference, technological backlog, educational discrepancies with the needs of agriculture, high debt, inadequate tax and fiscal policy, a lack of specialised financial institutions such as Agrobanka, erosion and depravity of natural land potentials, an exodus of rural population, a frighteningly poor land policy. The danger arising from the problems listed clearly and unequivocally is evident in Croatian food addiction. So, according to statistical indicators, we import 65% more than we produce, it's sad because we import basic life supplies primarily meat, milk and bread. Some of the negative trends described could have been avoided that decisions and legislative frameworks were directed towards growth in a European way, instead Croatia continued its policy of industrialising agriculture and different opportunities, then unbalanced distribution of goods, and capital concentration of large companies. This is contrary to EU principles aimed at supporting family economies, their organic growth and development, self-sufficiency in food production, first within each member, and then the EU as a whole, and all in line with animal welfare and soil care, as well as environmental protection. All of the above points to a serious threat to our country's sovereignty, primarily because of our own failures. The most important task is to create a dialogue climate instead of current ultimatums and confrontations. This is particularly current in the dairy sector where the negotiating power has completely disappeared between small producers and existing processors. The government, as well as existing legitimate institutions, can very much help to significantly mitigate or fully neutralize this market-related asymmetry. The climate of dialogue rather than confrontation, agreements instead of inefficient bureaucratic moves are needed on a broader agenda of bovine animals. In such a climate, a proposal to amend and supplement, for example, the Law on cattle farming in order to formally pave the way for private initiatives in breeding and production, and to enable family economies and interest associations to play a role as bearers of breeding policy. It is more than obvious that Croatian agriculture has great potential and that it represents a resource that is not even close to being put into office but that it is more likely by manipulation and systematic neglect of the value and efficiency of the countries that are similar to us. The decision whether to stay that way depends on ourselves or we will wake up and take the reins into our own hands and begin to manage the production processes responsibly or the remaining perspective of the country of importing food of often suspicious origin and the quality of the rooted landscape, empty village and dissatisfied people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104666	Thank you, dear colleague. Let's move on, the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF will finally speak to the distinguished representative and colleague Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104667	I thank the esteemed vice president. A man sometimes gets frustrated to argue here about laws when you know somewhere else on the other side of Mark's square decided that some laws will look, that they are very small differences from that, so that my task as an opposition representative is to warn about what I think is not good enough, some would say criticise, but let someone who understands how they will. What I want to talk about and point out is that the benefits of developing agricultural production make it better tomorrow than it is today and yesterday. There has been a lot of talk here about a group of Fortenova who handles 32,000 hectares of Croatia's most quality agricultural country. They are the largest concessionaire of agricultural land. Some concessions will last longer than even the youngest who sits here in HS will experience, so from that point of view we can say that it is definitely their country although on paper is the land of the Republic of Croatia. Is this law going to improve what's 30. I don't think it's settled that no, maybe it'll improve some of the situations that have been bad so far, and that's why the law so far was inconclusive, that time will show, those who are great that they gave up something at least a little bit would be a little less large, and those who are small would probably be much bigger, more operational and could form larger productions. I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture who has submitted a series of amendments, I have simply stopped writing or writing amendments at least because no amendment has been adopted and it does not even matter what it says in the amendment is important on which side the amendment is being tabled. So the debate in the assembly is what it is, and the decision is known as what it will be, the law will be adopted by anyone who comes into the procedure by the rulings and simply our influence on the change of any law is minimal. I don't personally process a single square of agricultural land or I'm interested in agricultural land competitions. What I'm saying in my discussions is from farmers who are either processing or interested or already have in, in order to compete for the land they're processing so far, there are definitely fears of many who have invested in their properties that they will be left without land because they have no cattle, our livestock has failed. We need to know that livestock is an engine of agriculture and every country that has strong livestock production has strong agricultural production. Fruit and gardening are highly intensive activities in agriculture that require a lot of hands, which are getting smaller today, the workforce is simply missing. The market is a vegetable culture in the Republic of Croatia for smaller economies practically other than dying markets, so the development of vegetable production simply does not progress. Fruit production is also faced with imports of relatively cheap products and is difficult to deal with with the step which, which chains with, those who produce cheap and simple thanks only to this crisis may well live a little, but I'm afraid that the purchasing power of citizens is falling and will be increasingly difficult to sell their products at some real price. Some here today talked a lot about bees and bees producers who, through honey bees, could say the sloppyness of some fellow farmers who didn't care when spraying that, that there are bees, so in an inadequate time they probably did protection of oily turnips that caused great damage to beekeepers, and also to them because pollinating crops will not be as good as if bees had stayed alive. So here's the minister's every honor in fighting, here's not easy with us MPs, but also with those she talks to on the ground, 100 people, 100 wonders, everyone wants something in their direction and it's very hard to meet everything, everything people want to be the way they want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104668	Thank you very much. Let's move on, the next club on whose behalf the closing word will be taken by the distinguished representative Ankica Zmaic, and the HDZ Representatives' Club, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104669	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor. Here we have today in the debate on the basis of the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, said much to correct the shortcomings of the applicable law that we faced during the implementation of the agricultural land available in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the application of the law itself. During the period between the two readings, a lot of good was done for this law, the first that the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture accepted many quality proposals and from us representatives who we also suggested from the Committee on Agriculture, from representatives clubs, from serious associations and organisations, from all those who pointed out how to contribute to an efficient, faster and more transparent implementation of the agricultural land-owned implementation. The goal is very clear and this is to strengthen Croatian villages and agriculture and implement the Agriculture Strategy. One newspaper and the quality of this law is the introduction of criteria for the exercise of the right of championships in leases, which is a system of points where priority is achieved by those who create added value, then domicility, young and small OPG, education, employment and all other criteria that would contribute to the preservation of life in our rural areas and the demographic restoration of our villages. The prospects of agriculture are young and small OPGs, therefore it is necessary to restore generations to these amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land that we are seeking precisely to assign state agricultural land to young generations that will link warfare and livestock. If the Agricultural Land Act is significant, we are also told by a number of amendments that we want to contribute to an even more effective law, especially amendments to the parent board on agriculture, which increase points for domicileness, young and small farmers and women who are holders of the CAP or agricultural crafts, and all in order to stop the depopulation of rural areas. Not to repeat myself because we have already said a lot and established what this law is good for, so the HDZ Club supports this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land with quality amendments. I congratulate the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104670	Thank you very much. The next debate was registered on behalf of the club Center and GLAS, co-worker Dalia Oreskovic, final. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. And on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104671	I'd like to thank the President-in-Office. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This is when we adopted the Law on COMMASSATION in Zagorje, all Zagorci rushed to units of local self-government to carry out a plot over land that cannot be plotted on plots less than one hectare, and the existing size of the land in Zagorje is about half a hectare. That's the kind of law we make. Both such and similar laws will now be passed again and we have appealed already in the presentation of colleagues Hajdukovic and I will appeal again, we think that this law is extremely important, that we should bring it quality, enforceable and therefore we will insist on it and ask and suggest that it go into third reading. I mentioned earlier, we have articles in the law, how many? 60 to the final provisions of 50 and some articles, and we have a obligation to adopt 17 regulations, 17 regulations, so that this law can be implemented at all. How much will he be able to do after that? That's questionable because we know what it's going to say in the rules. Let me just remind you of another law that we passed here a few months ago, the Social Care Act that is also inconclusive or implemented is unequal, each center implements it as it interprets it. You know why? Because the Ministry's regulation doesn't explain how to implement it, and these are serious problems, and now we're going to change our necks again. But, well, if the ruling majority so decides, the law will not be implemented, so we'll be making it again in a few months, just as we've passed the Rehabilitation Act, as we've had to pass a number of other laws. What I can now appeal here from this pay phone, I appeal to the minister that when adopting these powerful regulations that should be taken into account that those land currently being used by foreign companies, and it is a large area to prescribe that quality control of land before the land is stopped should be done in the way that it should be with some percentages and quality which will then be sufficient for new agricultural production because I have no doubt, what my colleague before me colleague Niksha said that they will take care of the quality of the land and the fertilisation and everything else, they will, but whether they will invest a year, two before they lose and will no longer manage it. That's very important to you. So here's the minister I appeal for this part to be prescribed in the way that we should be able to use these vast acres later and rent to our farmers. It's not good what you deleted in art. 14. that there are no restrictions on the areas to be leased because that's how big is actually again, and that's not good again. Especially not good in the middle where if one big producer shows up, all the little ones just disappear. Why are they disappearing? Because there's not enough surface. And so the problem is that farmers are renting agricultural land from people who aren't ready to give them contracts and they can't get incentives, and there's their problems. They process perhaps even twice as much and triple as those surfaces that are actually reported, and they can't get incentives. And that's what I'd like to ask you, Minister, if you can influence that part to somehow talk to these people, to see what can be done. You have a large number of farmers in Zagorje who really process large agricultural areas but cannot report them to get incentives for them, because the people who rent these areas and the areas are small, and these are areas less than a third of the hectares they rent from individual people, they are simply not ready to sign contracts. And people like that need to be helped if we want small farms to survive. We will insist that the law goes into third reading, so if it is accepted, it will be a real pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104672	Okay. Thank you. We have now exhausted all the declared speakers of the closing word. Now, I would like to ask if the Minister of Agriculture is finally to address the representatives at the end of this debate on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104673	Honored Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. At first, I would like to thank everyone who took part in the proposal, the suggestions during the plenary debate in the first reading, during today's committee sessions and all those who have submitted amendments that we will, of course, seriously consider. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, we think that after a fairly intense work to which it was based, one was the first analysis, and then one difficult dialogue, a serious, difficult and intense dialogue with different stakeholders, we have put forward a proposal that corresponds to strategic interests not only shown in a strategy called the General Strategy, but also in the Draft of the Strategic Plan, which is very detailed in accordance with the methodology and which was submitted on 31 December as a proposal to the European Commission. It has also been published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and on which the European Commission has made numerous comments as well as other Member States, and Croatia has just today offered its first contract on such comments. We have proposed a system of points that was quite a novelty compared to the last solutions and we believe that this is the most correct way of obtaining agricultural land. Here today we have heard more than once repeat how to guarantee previous owners, how to guarantee cattlemen, and the answer is no. The competition if we predict competitions, then we can't guarantee anyone. It is important to align the strategic objectives with the system to consider it, with the system envisaged by the law, that the most valuable resource is not given either way, nor the one we like, nor the one we don't like, that we have no doubt whether someone has fulfilled the economic programme or not, that we have no doubts which sector should be absolutely prioritised, but that we get to the appropriate weights of individual points for all that Croatian agriculture is of strategic interest, and that is, in our opinion, firstly, production in line with an analysis of growth, productivity, growth of production. Then also generational renewal, recognition of the guardians of the Croatian village through the criteria provided for domicileness, i.e. for residence in the case of natural persons or for the seat in the case of legal persons, evaluation of what forms the basis of each country, which is the entrepreneurship of small entrepreneurs, and when we talk about agriculture also taking into account the need for our food to be healthier, to be produced in accordance with environmental standards, the need that is very large for our small farmers to join. This is where the issue of implementation is raised. We will implement very simply, as we implement the rural development programme, the information system, the publication of the rank list, the control lists such as the system that is accredited, the verifiers, the control of the four eyes. One member from the Ministry of Agriculture, Education, the development of the information system, the information solution of the IT solution, is at the end. 17 regulations should not be changed. Only some change, and that's already in progress. We're not asking for deadlines from others so we don't put them in front of us. Furthermore, as regards the assessment carried out by the representatives of the Most, that is, one of the representatives of the Most when he spoke about productivity, he gave an assessment of one. I am sorry that he rated one of the Croatian farmers because, for example, they had productivity in kunas, gross added value per unit of work, per unit of work 31936 kuna, and according to the second assessment of the State Statistics Institute in 2021, 53500. And I congratulate Croatian farmers on such growth despite all the troubles that have occurred. When we talk about MOST, there's no beekeeping law. They probably referred to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals after mentioning it seems to me to be the Beekeeper's Union. Also when we talk about the right of first purchase that causes legitimate public attention, a question has been asked about the necessary resources, the assessment of fiscal impacts and the like. So at this point, we can't know exactly how much funding should be provided for exploiting the first purchase rights. But we do know if we have such a right, if it turns out to be applied somewhere that there is a strategic interest, that this government will know how to react both in good time and in good time and without error, and quickly in these times when we talk about peacetime, although this last one has never been much more peaceful. As far as the assessment is concerned, the volume of agricultural production is reduced and they are not exactly accurate. Agricultural production has grown in recent years and has not only grown valuablely, it has grown in quantities, but it would be unfair not to say that certain types of production that are important and which can create faster added value of growth, it has not been, it has also been stagnation and it is not possible to support them faster and more successfully. However, last year, in which the livestock sector is structurally exposed to major difficulties, the first one faced inflation shows that, with successfully completed negotiations with the European Commission on animal welfare compensation, I will recall that measure, by some miracle, did not enter the rural development programme in 2014, and was granted to us in 2018, and from the average amount of 90 million kuna from last year, 2018 was somewhat lower, respectively. When the first payment was made this year and recently paid just before March 15, 250, it seems to me 254 million kuna with the support programmes that we have paid in the last half of the year we have justifiably supported this sector with nearly half a billion kuna, something from the funds, something from the budget as we always do. And the second assessment by the State Statistics Office suggests that the total livestock production did not fall in quantity or value despite major difficulties. However, the assessment should be cautious, and this year will also be difficult with the emphasis first on the dairy sector. And unfortunately, a large number of cows are lost again, so we and in the draft strategic plan envisioned additional measures precisely for dairy cattle to be sure that they will receive permanent and continuous support throughout the programming period, and that they will not depend on ad hoc measures depending on the possibilities, it is our strategic priority and so will continue to be. And even today, as you can see in the government, we've had a decision on the additional support of livestock farming and, of course, cattle farming in that part participates justifiably, participates the most. I won't forget other sectors here. And the pig farming sector is facing us with the problem of many others and will have the continued support of the Croatian government because without the recovery of livestock farming we cannot even talk about the recovery of rural space. This will require other additional measures not exclusively of agricultural nature. There will be a need for priority in the new strategic plan of this sector in relation to bioeconomy, in connection with the rural development of diversification, etc. And we've predicted it all that way, and we're also fixing it in the draft strategic plan. In terms of parceling, I believe that agricultural land really needs to be protected from further fission and that the fact that we have a large number of fragmented small areas can not only be the source of the problems that occur in the coast but reduces the chances of efficient and productive agricultural production. But as I said, I also consider the comments made here, or suggestions, to improve the provision even better, so we will, of course, seriously consider them. Here today are the proposals relating to blue diesel. For example, that it should also be awarded to farmers, so I will say that in early January, it seems to me that 5 January Croatian farmers are allowed a quantity of 187 million liters of blue diesel and that is for a little more than 100,000 Croatian agricultural holdings, more precisely 100.934. It has also been stated that the strategy is later and that it is general. The strategy wasn't too late. The strategy was made within the deadline, made by 2020. As I said, she is here in front of the Croatian parliamentary deputies to discuss it because it is still crucial, because it is still a key document because we wanted it, because we proposed it, and since it was not possible by law to amend the Agriculture Act so that the strategy would be presented in the Croatian Parliament and came in turn and thanks to the parliamentary representatives for their support. It was made methodologically correct, and the details are in the draft strategic plan that I said on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture. We're not late, and we're publishing all the documents. And those who were under the strategic plan and strategic plan. And it's quite a novelty compared to many others before us. They mentioned, remembered the possibility of a score of economic programs. We agree with our colleague, we agree with our colleagues in the opposition they consider and who rightly highlight the importance of the economic programme. The economic programme should be the basis for availability. In some variants of the law, the simulations of the score with economic programmes were envisaged, but it brings difficulties in implementation, brings complexity in implementation and brings certain risks to subjective assessments. Therefore, we have predicted and so already done in the regulation that the economic programme is no longer, it is not 2 papers, we cannot easily score it, but we can propose it in the way proposed in the most important investment measures of the rural development programme. In this way, it will have to be fulfilled, and that will also be how it will be controlled. In addition to regular control of the State Inspectorate, changes to the law provide for the role of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food in the framework of which a ground centre is established to control the implementation of agri-technical measures and soil conditions. It is about scientists and experts they need, they can do it and it is the novelty of this law, and additional units of local self-government and the Ministry of Agriculture will administratively control the implementation. Why? Many times we faced questions whether the farmer even handled additional agricultural land or gave it to someone else, so the inspections that go on the ground will notice that everything here is in line with the economic programme, but it is not a guarantee that this farmer is doing so. The guarantees are books of business, financial documentation, administrative control and so far it has not been provided for by any law, we have foreseen it in this law. As regards proposals relating to young farmers, young people of individual liberations, we do not think that this law is necessary now to further complicate because in the draft strategic plan we have provided for additional allocations in relation to the existing period precisely for young farmers, greater and individual support and higher amounts of resources despite the demanding commitments related to green architecture. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical and technical assistance for officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. and at the rate of use we are one of so we are one of the countries which the European Commission truly considers to be an example of the use of financial instruments, loans and guarantees. This is probably because our farmers lacked such opportunities, and they embraced them. We have recently increased for the third or fourth time allocation that is now close to a billion kuna, which is increased by the original 500 million kuna and we have divided more than 1400 loans by micro, small and medium Croatian farmers. That's the answer to the question about Agro Bank. As regards the commission and other regulations, this Ministry of Agriculture has, within a short time, resolved the application of the Regulation on official controls through one difficult and serious law, resolved the issue of the Law on Agricultural Land in a way that never again one person, was in the unit of local self-government in the ministry or in some third place, rather than that of this work fast, efficient and just system. We have solved a strategy that has not been available for 20 years, we have faced crises, we have notified 15 new support, completely new in the European Commission. Of course it can still be better, but I really feel that our regulations, our measures are ineffective or that we are late, etc. I mean, I don't want to be a mother-in-law right now, but I think we can compete with anyone and that hardly anyone can objectively challenge it. But you can always be better. Therefore, I would like to thank all Croatian MPs who have really worked seriously on this law, all of you, because you understand the importance of this law and Croatian agriculture, regardless of its position or opposition. There have been very good suggestions, not only today but also in the first reading, I think you noticed that we have appreciated a good part of them. In the end, I'll end up with bees, bees without which you can't imagine the concept of one health, human health, plant health, animal health. Bees are highly endangered in both Croatia and the world. We had a bee killing in Međimurje County in 2020, for the first time reacted with a special programme of support, we will, of course, react to this nightmare. When we talk about the first one, I said there were paid fees, damages to 38 Croatian beekeepers at 1300 bee communities. Today, the inspections numbered more than 700, to determine the cause under one veterinary inspection because it is an obligation, it is necessary to remove the risk of infectious diseases, if they have led to this and for the sake of agricultural inspection, which I will not comment on until it has been confirmed, but seems more likely due to the unauthorized use of protective equipment. They have the support and they will, but that's not all, and it's not the most important. We have approached the design, we have accessed the upgrade of the phyto-information system and it is in the implementation and this upgrade will enable the connection with every sales place and knowledge of every person who has bought a particular type of protective product and when she has bought it. That was necessary, we agreed in August 2020. By meeting with beekeepers, we have, as a basis, changed the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides and this implementation of the upgrade of the phytosanitary system is already under way. We have also increased the amounts of the national programme to beekeeping we have raised the annual allocation of just over 14 million kuna to 17, half of that amount being paid from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and half from the state budget. I will express my grief, though it is said here that we have not taken advantage of the opportunity to brand Croatian honey. We have launched a project of national honey jars, today the Croatian government has also made this year's Decision to implement the school's honey day, and in the last three years we have marked the designation of originality at the European level of two Croatian honeys, 2018 Slavonski, the designation of originality is the most demanding mark that we understand each other, and recently as last in a series we have marked Zagorje bagrem honey, so the two honeys have a designation of originality at European level, and two more are in the process of mountain and Istrian and we will continue so on. Therefore, it is not necessary to conclude this on a case-by-case basis, it is incorrect data. We will also continue to seriously consider all the remarks concerning the labelling and the distinction of the mixture of honey and therefore we advocate at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104674	Thank you very much, you can stay, you can stay, there are two replicas if you want to respond. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104675	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm so glad you're done with bees and honey because that's exactly what I want to ask you, I answered the replica right away. I'm coming from Međimurje, so this question of bee-marrying is very important to me, one piece you answered. Before, here's an unfulfilled two-year-old. It was that first bee killing over 57 million people died, and now, according to some data, 17.5 million individuals, I don't know if that's the exact information, that's what I came up with. Has the investigation finally been completed by the State Inspectorate at least since 2nd year. The culprit allegedly hasn't been found yet, do you have any information and financial aspects so far you've indicated how much of the bee communities have been damaged, but I'm wondering if you're planning on how much more financial resources have been paid up so far and how much more of your plans are being made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104676	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104677	When we talk about that first boat that was on the 1300 bee communities we were planning to spend a million kunas then, but we spent something more. For now I have information about 700 bee communities and investigations we can call it so not yet completed, when they are finished we will, of course, announce it, and the first statement of the Ministry of Agriculture seems to have been announced to me about an hour ago after today held meetings with representatives of the beekeepers' association in the Međimurje area, with representatives of the Croatian beekeeper's Union and the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the first case was concerned, it really tried to determine what it was, it was very difficult, it was not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but we held a series of meetings with those who were authorized and cannot confirm that this one, I cannot confirm at the moment of which the persons were concerned, but in the end more, more searches came about that it was an insecticide.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104678	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104679	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, let me, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, commend what we have been able to do in these two readings, and I think the board has been very active, and here is the president here. I would say that by law, amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, we are essentially ending that cycle. We had the Seed Act, we had the Consummation Act, we had the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices, and here we are finally and finally the Law on Agricultural Land and I would say, of course there is the Strategy of Agriculture until 2030. What I can say here as a man who visits people, especially in our villages things will not happen overnight, will not happen without the help of the Croatian government, without a resolution ministry, without us parliamentary representatives, therefore here are all the thanks, of course, and opposition representatives who have contributed to the benefits of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104680	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104681	It is for me, too, to particularly thank the Committee on Agriculture, Presidents and all members and members for the very valuable work that helps us, of course, to advance the proposed legislative solutions. We have not finished the cycle, the Veterinary Act is awaiting us, the Law on Plant Health is awaiting us and the amendments to the Law on Agriculture are waiting for us to fully adapt it to the new EU legislative framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy and it is all in preparation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104682	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The last item of the agenda is the proposal for a decision of the shh. The proposal for a decision to declare the first week of June "The Days of Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia". The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy under Article. 85nd and 172nd. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. President. Renata Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104919	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, it seems to me that I have seen you, is that you are both fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament. This isn't the last point today, this is the second point today, we've had a lot of time on the first one, so here it is. Therefore, the proposal for a decision to declare the first week of June on the day of survival of cancer in the Republic of Croatia established that proposal for a decision by the Health and Social Policy Committee at its 49th session held on 9 February 2022. On the basis of the request of an independent group of health journalists whose professionality in reporting and public education on health and health, the Committee sent a proposal for a decision to the president of HS to declare the National Day of Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia on the first week of June. The focus should be on the number of cancer populations, it is estimated that around 170 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia, but also the general public, because the experience of cancer other than the disease itself affects the whole family, the social and working environment, but it also has a strong impact on the medical staff involved in the diagnosis and treatment. The board members discussed the committee's meeting and held opinions that the National Day of Cancer survivors would be an extremely important contribution to the distraction and education of the entire Croatian public. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously accepted this proposal. After heart and blood vessels disease, cancer is the second cause of death in the Republic of Croatia, and thus it is also a major public health problem. According to the cancer register at HZZ in 2019, the number of newly diagnosed patients with malignant diseases was 25,352 and the deceased 13,344 in the Republic of Croatia. In people under 65 years of age, this is the most common cause of mortality in the Republic of Croatia and therefore under 65 years of age is the most common death of cancer. If we compare ourselves with other EU countries, Croatia is second to the mortality of malignant diseases. We have now improved slightly, there are no known data on how many people with cancer live in Croatia and how many people have cured cancer in Croatia, but it is estimated that at this time 170,000 of our citizens live with cancer. By declaring the national day of cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia on the first week of June, it would be the very numerous population, as well as the general public who has experience in cancer. In addition to the disease itself, it also affects the entire family, society, working environment, the medical staff who naturally participates in diagnostics and treatment. The success of cancer treatment, post-cancer life without discrimination and the recognition of the problems they have survived from cancer meet and meet and improve their overall quality of life message are the ones that bear the establishment of this national day. The European plan against cancer of this disease is accessible entirely, from prevention, treatment precisely to care for people who have survived cancer, which in Europe is estimated to have about 20 million inhabitants in the group. Raising awareness of the challenges and opportunities of survival of cancer, researching and setting up programmes that are key to the difficulties they have survived from cancer is a modern approach to this topic. A national day of cancer survivors would also give an extremely important opportunity to educate the entire Croatian public. Namely, the risk factor for the development of these diseases such as smoking, alcohol consumption, often behaviour and a major public health problem in Croatia. This national day would also provide a clear message of the importance of early diagnosis prevention, response to preventive checks and the possibility of treatment and cancer treatment in the Republic of Croatia. Please also allow me to thank the editor-in-chief of the Health Portal.hr Ivani Rimac Lesički, a graduate journalist who is on our committee in front of an independent group of health journalists, so he suggested that one such day be declared. I must certainly point out that with all these statisticalally very ugly and black numbers that we have with cancers, with pain, but also with deaths, I think it is very important to say to our patients or our fellow citizens that cancer is a disease that can and should be treated even at the time when they are diagnosed that it is just the beginning of another time. So this is one perspective day, and I'm very glad to be involved in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104920	Thank you very much, thank you. You have several replicas. The first line was requested by Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104921	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, presidents of the Health Committee, I also personally join the opinion of those who highlight the importance of every day we talk about a particular disease, which is important in fact for raising the awareness of our citizens, or the entire health system and society as a whole. Cancer is a social problem, not just a public health problem. Every conference, every round table we organize, is a contribution to this particular fight against cancer or other diseases. In general, without intending to be incorrect or unfair here or to delude someone but for the sake of our colleagues, I must say, for the sake of the public, that today we have had a valuable and very important conference "The outcome and treatment of oncological patients in the Republic of Croatia" organised by MEP Romana Jerkovic, also joined the MEP Ressler, was also Director Vukelić, Director of HZZO, but there was no one from the Ministry of Health A series of experts, our representatives, our patients, and no one from the Department of Health, I'm sorry about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104922	I'm sorry, Mrs. Maric, but I have to cut back on time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104923	So this one I see that the colleague failed to address the question to the end, but here I would take advantage of the opportunity and say that we all participated together in the national strategic framework against cancer and that this is a complete and serious document called 284 measures, 140 and, 143 targets and sub-targets, and 150 experts worked on it. So, it's about a commendable document that we voted by consensus in this assembly, and I just hope that the implementation will go quickly and that our fellow citizens will have quality health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104924	Thank you. Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104925	Dear Vice-President, fellow president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, of course here I would like to commend our initiative, thank the initiators, but also to thank all the members headed by you for making this decision. Why is she important? Well, it is as important as colleague Maric has already noted, that we highlight the importance of prevention, early diagnostics, and treatment, and in this case the only expanded definition, which is the treatment of the consequences of cancer treatment. Since I am a physicist, and since the definition of the World Health Organization is the definition of health care that it is not only the absence of disease but also a lower mental, physical and social well-being, then we know what this is about because we know that cancer patients and those who have survived treatment give multiple and multidimensionally impaired quality of life. Therefore, every honor on this initiative and decision-making, and I believe that we will unanimously vote this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104926	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104927	I thank you. That we must not forget the quality of the lives of the sick because you, as a physicist, really know what the problems are, depending on what kind of radical operations are or what they are. But so we have this one improvement in women's first priority is breast cancer, men have prostate cancer, and each of these operations has their own requirements and their own way of treatment after the procedure itself, and I believe there will also be a national strategic framework, but also institutions that deal with raising one level of quality. I certainly stress the need for physical therapy, or lymphatic drainage, which is needed, must be manual, should not be on the apparatus for those who have cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104928	Thank you. Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104929	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Saberar-Dračevac here I am taking the opportunity to support this initiative of yours, I think it's commendable. I would just once again like to point out what you and the introduction said was not only affecting the individual but also affecting the entire family. I believe that cancer control should be one of the main health priorities of both the Republic of Croatia and the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104930	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104931	I agree with you, we can definitely expect a pandemic of diseases from different tumours throughout Europe, and that's something we're going to have to deal with in the future. Now here's the startling fact that the first cause of mortality under 65 is cancer. So that's a big public health problem and we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104932	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam chairman of the board. I support this initiative, and I would like to say that we may not be sufficiently looking at cancer in the light of a national security issue in view of the very high numbers that you have highlighted, which speak of that being a major public health problem and that we must face it. It seems to me that this is also an opportunity for a wider awareness of the public because someone who may not have lived cancer or who has not had such a situation can hardly know how those who have survived cancer are coping with such situations from day to day. Well, here you have often known on a personal example some testimony pointed out, and I congratulate you on that because I think it really contributes to public awareness and that it is a kind of invitation that we all need to control ourselves because if cancer is discovered in time that it is treatable.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104934	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104935	It is also very important for us to stress that prevention, but this medical teaching, enlightenment is extremely important for our citizens who unfortunately respond to preventive checks in a limited number. We see the only serious shift in mammography where we are here somewhere at EU level about 60% is response to mammographic checks, but we know that for 20 years now, systematic association and the Cancer League have been encouraging us to mammography and raise awareness of it. The same thing should be done in other preventive checks, of course some preventive activities should be simplified. And I'd like to say thank you anyway, so I'll keep doing it another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104936	You had four more seconds no problem. You'll get a chance. Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sablar-Dračevac, I think our Committee on Health is paying good attention to cancer and it is never enough to talk about it and to mark this cancerous day can also serve us to promote healthy lifestyles, and to explain both smoking and alcohol as risk factors. In this fast way of life today, we all want fast-track solutions, so that public health programs or strengthening public health responses need to wait several years to see results in promoting healthy lifestyles. So I believe that this will also serve in some ways in the Croatian public better promote the European Code of Cancer which has 12 ways to reduce the risk of cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104938	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104939	That is right, this European Code is very interesting because it allows us these simple fast solutions, gives instructions to citizens and should definitely be more propagated in order for citizens to get that data. There's no point in me reading that code right now, but so it's starting from smoking anyway, that's the first point. But what I wanted to answer before, and it's very important to me, here I would like to commend to the tumours and academics clinic Samardji, who launched a preventive examination of lung cancer diagnosis, and here we are first, and so that's something that the second one of us will now take over, and I hope that throughout Europe will be, that it will be used throughout Europe, and that's great. Doctors of general medicine and those who know the whole family best and know who's suspicious are involved. And who's the problem? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104940	Thank you. Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Health Committee, I support this initiative, I think it is important to increase the level of information of our citizens and prevention. I would particularly like to point out that you and the European Cancer Plan as part of this initiative can be seen within this European plan, which is not only an important document but is particularly important because it has an adequate financial basis, if I remember correctly what Commissioner Kyriakides said, it is 4 billion euros. So I think it's just as important to point out this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104942	Yes, I agree, we are getting real serious help and it is mostly directed towards these preventive activities, but also for the apparatus itself, because you know that our linear accelerators are quite old, that very often there are malfunctions and that our patients have to wait to get their adequate therapy. There is, of course, a problem with PCTs that we have in numbers enough 5 to 3 million and 700 thousand as much as this last census said, but they are also quite old, even those in the private sector, and are often broken down and, of course, do not work on more shifts, and may be necessary, I see that the minister will approve more funds for these controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104943	Thank you and I give you a retroactive right to respond. - Mrs. Crescent. May coat of arms Bujević please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Health and Social Policy unanimously supported that we will decide that we have a National Cancer Day in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's a very important initiative from Mrs. Devereaux. Journalists and editors of the portal who probably based on experience and everything they see doing this portal sees what the problems are and what it should point to. In particular, it will be necessary to pay particular attention to what it really is to survive, which are the years when it can be said that someone has survived or has not, and I see that it is out there, and that we will actually join other countries like America, Canada, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia that have that day and have achieved better results in promoting health and healthy habits. So here's once again the vice president of the board here's my pleasure that we unanimously adopted, and I hope the HS will adopt unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104945	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104946	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, this very promotion of healthy lifestyles, education and directing our fellow citizens to regular controls is what we want to achieve this day. Now how many years is the survival hearing I got sick in 2016, but I have metastatic cancer and I'm still in treatment, but I'm alive, so I wouldn't consider myself in that group, but there are a lot of people who got up and happily said here I survived cancer, I don't know prostate or so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104947	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas for now. Does the board's representative want to take a word for it? No, I don't. ... No, that's not it, that was the proposal. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm sorry if the motionary's representative would like to give an additional explanation to Mrs. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Is that you? Well, that's what I said no, well, thank you very much, so I'm opening up the debate, first Mr. Marin Miletic is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most. [[We've solved this, and the board won't give...]] It's still a happy day, right, so then this one can be a bit of a joke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104948	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Radin with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. What's true to all our lives is that, if we're passing here on earth and as long as we run, every single one of us can't escape from our passing, so we'll all one day get out of this country's face. We believe that reality does not disappear but changes, and I also believe that, my personal thinking, may not be resented by fellow believers, perhaps this one has room for everyone in these apartments of heavenly Jerusalem. Of course, as Club Mosta, we will support this commendable action and I would like to thank Mrs. Ivani Rimac Lesicski on the initiative, and then especially to our committee here in Parliament, colleagues to you and everyone who contributed there, and then to the ruling because we know well that which we are opposition that as many times as we may think that some ideas are good if ruling it does not support the niche whether, at least in this dimension. So I want to thank you HDZ for leading the people who are here on the board who supported it, whether it's because it's commendable and it definitely needs to be supported. What I'd like to put out an accent and talk about in a few minutes, the first cause of death in the Republic of Croatia are diseases of the circulatory system and it dies over 22,000 people annually, then the data says that the second cause of death is tumors and more than 13,000 people die annually from tumors. The third cause of death is endocrine disease. There's a doctor here from the opposition and the rulings who are here with us, and then people know exactly what we're talking about. And the fourth cause of death is now either from Covid or from Covid, but it doesn't matter now, is that so the fourth cause of death. What I would like as an athlete to put an emphasis on, so of course not entering the freedom of every man to decide for himself how he wants to live and that's his right. So I have no problem with it, nor have I ever had every man make any decisions for himself, and in the end, those decisions direct him in one direction or another. But so do we, who are here in parliament and who represent those citizens who elected us to the Croatian Parliament, and then in opposition, we believe that maybe we can sensitize people who have more responsibility than we do because they have the legitimacy to lead this country, and then sometimes we talk some thoughts and send some messages, hoping that they will come across more fertile soil, so here in this direction you can watch this performance today. Smoking kills more than 8 million people worldwide annually, as a result of smoking. Here, therefore, there are doctors who know that this is verified information, and Croatia loses 15,000 citizens annually from the consequences of smoking. So, it's a city the size of Makarska, it's a town the size of Metkovic, so when you see that we're really gone, we're gone, I mean we're all less. Em's less because we're so with demographics as it is, Natalie is what she is, mortality is high, then on the one hand we're gone, then on the other hand many citizens of our own happiness have decided what's the same legitimate thing to look for somewhere else, so they left our country and then we here have a huge problem with the consequences of smoking. So, some other maybe health problems will go away or at least we hope they will or will become smaller, but the consequences of smoking remain. And we lose Makarska every year. Whoever's ever been to Makarska once was at least for coffee knows it's a beautiful city with lots of people and now you can't imagine coming to Makarska in 2023 and every house is empty. No, not to God, is it, no, I'm talking in pictures of whether, that every building is empty, that there's no one or I can talk about Metkovic if he doesn't get me wrong. So now you come to Metkovic and suddenly there's no one here, so that's terrible, and that's what we do every year. And now that we as a country on the one hand don't take people's freedom away because they have the right to decide, if someone wants to smoke, they'll smoke if they don't, but how do we as a country to do what we do, to raise the price of it, to sensitize people, to explain to them, you have only one life, you don't have two second chances, there's no second chance, one only and where you are and let's at least think about what you're doing. At least think about it, then, that the consequences of the way you live are very likely, the percentage is that, and that will lead to that. And I'd like us as a state to launch some more massive projects if I can put it that way. So where people would sensitize and explain to them how important a healthy diet is, how important it is to move, how important it is to deal with sports. We're not talking about top-notch sports right now, and now people have to, to make people run 10 kilometers a day, at the end of it, even I'm a athlete, so I know that it's not even healthy, it's huge loads on both the wrist and everything, but recreation, walking, hiking, some basic recreation. So, I get the impression that we as a state don't do that enough. I can't say we're not doing anything, but we're not doing enough. And I think we can do a lot, a lot more. So in Croatia, every third adult, according to data, I Googled it from HZZ, so they say every third adult is a smoker and it's terrible for my people. So, every third person has a huge percentage that won't wait for their age, that I don't know a partner, a partner, a wife, a wife, and my grandkids, and I don't know about pets at the end, with whoever, alone, is it not at all controversial, who wants and what he wants because he's a smoker. And what's our responsibility as a state, is that we make this one move in that fight against smoking. The other thing seems to me to be a lot of young people, they've become the fancy of those electronic cigarettes. It's pure poison. So it's a PR joke, it's a marketing joke where those industries that have billions of that, so we know it's investing again in propaganda then people think it's healthier now. It's nothing more healthy than this, my friend. Not to say maybe a better tobacco to grow in a country somewhere, so you're smoking it so God can forgive me than that chemistry. So it's pure chemistry. Electronic cigars, cigarettes, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The products of this tobacco heated don't help in any way in the fight against cancer because I read they say we help fight cancer, so that's, that's totally insane, brother. It's like tomorrow some liquor producer tells me here I'm helping fight alcoholism. I mean how on, it's a contradiction in see, like saying salt is sweet, so it can't define salt is that salt is salt salt, if we say it's sweet she's no longer salt. So, I'd like to talk about it. And that prevention you know I said I don't know how many times I've been here about sports. Every kuna invested in sports brings hundreds of kunas back. Because that's it, that's the law of the universe. So, since kindergarten, if we teach our kids to move into some form of sports, it's a huge probability that these young people will grow up to be healthy citizens who will deal with stress easier, with the problems we all have because we have them and they'll be healthier. And if they're healthier, and they'll be happier and happier, more productive, all of it, I mean it's all connected you know how they say a healthy man has a thousand wishes, a thousand wishes not to be caught by these, and the disease only has one, wants to be healthy. So as a club Mosta, we absolutely support this story, this project, we thank everyone who contributed to it in any way, and we would like to protect our citizens, especially from the consequences of smoking and to promote sport and recreation as a healthy way of life that would ultimately contribute to the overall health of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104949	Thank you, too. I'll take one small freedom, you'll say unwarranted is unwarranted, but the fact that every third citizen of Croatia is a smoker is the reason that no party proposes a ban on the sale of cigarettes. Ms. Maja Grba Bujevic is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104950	.../A speech room away from the microphone./... Secretary of State Basic, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's since we mentioned today on several occasions Mrs. Ivano Rimac Lesički, I'm glad she's upstairs at the gallery, so here we can all say hello together. Cancer is one of the world's leading global public health problems. [[Applause]] According to the World Health Organization, the number of cancer-enhancing patients in 2020. It reached 19 million people, and the death toll of 10 million people. Cancer presents a huge health, economic and social challenge, yet it is essential that almost 40% of cancer cases can be prevented by effective prevention of measures. And in Republic cancer is also a leading public health problem, each third population will suffer from some form of cancer during their lives. It is estimated that 170,000 people living in the Republic of Croatia who have suffered or suffer from cancer, and taking into account their families who suffer because of this, 850,000 Croatian citizens are daily directly or indirectly affected by this monster, they account for almost 20% of our suffering society. Cancer is the second most common cause of mortality, following cardiovascular disease and is responsible for 27% of deaths. That's a lot. According to the latest official data in the Republic of Croatia, nearly 14,000 people died of some type of cancer in one year. That's terrible. The most common malignant causes of death in men are lung cancer, colon cancer, and prostate cancer, and in women they are colon cancer, end-part of the intestine, lung cancer, and breast cancer. The share of the population dying of cancer is constantly growing. In the mid-1990s, cancer has been the cause of 20% of all deaths, and in the last ten years, that percentage has increased to over 25%. Data on hay survival indicate that in the Republic of Croatia, lung cancer is only 10%, for prostate 81%, stomach 20%, colon 50% and for one type of leukemia is 32%. The reasons for the unfavourable oncology outcome of patients in the Republic of Croatia are complex and include many things. High exposure to risk factors such as smoking and obesity, which our colleague already spoke of, lack of health information, insufficient response to national preventive programmes, late diagnostics, poor availability of quality oncology care, lack of quality oncology databases and quality control, insufficient education and health literacy of our citizens and insufficient transportive symptomatic care for oncology patients and their families. All this affects these challenges. In order to raise awareness of cancer, its prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of the first celebration of a national cancer survivor's plan was held on June 5th, 1988. in the United States, it was conducted in cooperation with local municipalities, meaning in communities, hospitals, other stakeholders and associations. It included organized and professional gatherings, various competitions, survivors' testimonies, various thematic exhibitions, followed by Canada and Italy, and the Netherlands, and India, and Malaysia, and Australia and some countries in South Africa, and we hope that it will soon be Croatia. As far as Croatia is concerned, HS adopted the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030 in 2020 with the aim of reducing the incidence of cancer. The vision is to improve the ratio between initial cancer diagnosis and late-stage cancer by 20% by 2030, for all cancer crops for which preventive programmes are implemented, and to start possible implementation of new preventive programmes such as e.g. preventative program for prostate, stomach cancer or, for example, specifically for melanoma. The national programme for early breast cancer detection has been carried out continuously since 2006 in Croatia. and includes women 50-69 years of age, and the response is about 60%. Not enough. The national early detection programme for colon cancer has been implemented since 2007, with only 25% response. That's terrible. The national prevention programme to detect uterus neck cancer is covered by all women aged 25 to 64 and the response is 38%. So how do we do, we don't worry about our health. Since 2020. National preventive programme for early detection of lung cancer is also being implemented, which is certainly at the beginning, but is already showing some good results. It will certainly be a big step, as my colleague said, and others will learn from us. In order to ensure the implementation of the national strategic framework against cancer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia provided in the NPOO for activities relating to: the procurement of equipment for the prevention, diagnostics and treatment of cancer patients, as well as the acquisition and implementation of equipment for the establishment of a national oncology network and national oncology databases. That's very important. Without the right database, no strategic decisions can be made. The aim is to improve the health care system in the field of prevention, diagnostics and cancer treatment by ensuring optimal treatment for all cancer patients, using modern radiotherapy techniques and improving the quality of services and health outcomes in the treatment of cancer patients. All oncological institutions in Croatia will be covered by the national information oncology network, and it is envisaged to install appropriate algorithms of the basic diagnostic procedures necessary to begin treatment with the most common cancer diagnosis in order to standardise treatment at all levels in the Republic of Croatia. It's final. Cancer is a major public-health problem for both us and the rest of the world. Systemic measures of prevention and treatment and support for the sick and their families can improve the quality of life for the sick as well as the quality of life for the family. Insufficient knowledge of the fact of cancer and fear of dying because of cancer leads to the avoidance of thinking and discussions on the subject, the rejection of timely preventive examinations and the delay of solving identified health problems. It's something that we all need to think about, think about, and do a lot of things. In order to improve the outcome of cancer disease, early detection and identification of optimal treatment as quickly as possible, the development of general oncology care, and the support of patients and their families with the development of rehabilitation, reintegration into society and work and palitative care. This will probably contribute to this day we hope to unilaterally declare – Day of National Cancer Survived in the Republic of Croatia. The day following the proposal would be marked on the first Sunday of June, and according to the proposal we received. With the awareness of the many challenges faced by people suffering from cancer and the advocate of further research and the increase of resources in diagnostics and cancer treatment, the day would be supported by the sick and their families, and would celebrate victory with those who have succeeded in their struggle. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the proposal to declare the national Cancer Day in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104951	Thank you, too. Mrs. Irena Simunic will speak in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104952	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Social Democrats Club fully supports the proposal for a decision to declare the first week in June on cancer days in the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 9 February 2022. The announcement of the National Day of Cancer in the Republic of Croatia on the first week of June puts an extremely large population in focus, but also the general public because the experience of cancer other than the disease itself affects the whole family, the social and working environment, and the medical staff involved in the diagnosis and treatment. Croatia is the world's sixth highest mortality rate. At the same time, according to the International Cancer Research Agency, Croatia is 22nd in the incidence of cancer. Some other countries, such as the United States, are significantly worse off when it comes to the incidence, while being much better placed on mortality and could therefore be concluded that Croatia is lagging behind in the treatment of cancer. It is important to regain consciousness and discover what the problem is, or what are we lagging behind, and what can we change? Malignant diseases are the most common cause of death in Croatia. Compared to other EU countries, Croatia is second to the mortality of malignant diseases. It is estimated that at this point some 170,000 of our fellow citizens live with cancer. According to the cancer register at the Croatian Institute of Public Health in 2019, the number of newly diagnosed patients with malignant diseases was slightly more than 25000 and the deceased even 13444. The most common malignant causes of death were lung cancer, and colon cancer. In men, prostate cancer is the eighth cause of death, while women have breast cancer in nine places. It is estimated that every third person in the Republic of Croatia will suffer from cancer during their lives, which is a frightening data. The proportion of people with malignancies was the primary cause of death in constant growth. In doing so, Croatia is at the bottom of the EU's survival scale, among the five countries with the worst rates behind Slovakia, Poland, Cyprus and Hungary except for children at which survival rates are comparable to those in the EU. The most likely reasons for such an unfavourable oncological outcome include high exposure to harmful effects of smoking and obesity. Lack of quality primary prevention programs, poor health enlightenment and insufficient early cancer detection programmes, late diagnosis, higher representation of more deadly forms of cancer. Weaker availability of quality oncology care, lack of radiotherapy and other expensive and sophisticated equipment, lack of true multidisciplinaryism in oncology and ultimately insufficient investment in all aspects of oncology from science to treatment and supportively symptomatic care for cancer patients. Great cancer mortality in Croatia can also be explained to a significant extent by ageing the population, and it is known that the Croatian population is on average one of the older people in the world. Oncological care should be systematically changed, as already better prevention can prevent 30 to 50% malignant tumours, and if early enough cancer is detected today is a treatable disease. Consistent implementation of the Strategy against Cancer is a matter of the stability of the nation. Available data give a basic picture of the cancer situation in Croatia can see basic trends and public health burden at country and individual regions level. In order to plan health policies more precisely, more capacity is needed to collect reliable, clinical and public health data as well as connect them to existing databases with appropriate analysis. Patients' registers are also missing and more effective and detailed follow-up of treatment outcomes with a view to more concrete answers to more detailed questions concerning high mortality and poor survival, planning appropriate action plans. The establishment of this national day is another way of raising the nation's health awareness with an emphasis on the important message, health is a priority, taking care of your health and taking responsibility. It is important to stress that all of these indicators can be affected by prevention measures, primary cancer prevention, changes in life habits, secondary early cancer detection that has no symptoms and tertiary timely, accessible and effective treatment. It is crucial in all available ways to constantly send important messages on the success of cancer treatment, life after cancer without discrimination, with the aim of identifying the problem that the cancer survivors face, and the main goal is to improve their overall quality of life. Marking the national day of cancer survivors would also give another opportunity, the possibility of educating the entire Croatian public, which is one of the important factors of the success of solving this public health problem, and therefore the Social Democrats Club will strongly support this initiative on proclaiming the first week of June of cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia. I personally congratulate all those who have contributed to the realization of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104953	Thank you, too. Ms. Dalia Oreshković Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mrs. Andreja Maric SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104954	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There are not many of us, it's an important topic, but we are brave and I believe that we will contribute to our debate and actually encourage the whole society and our whole community, all of our citizens to understand that because cancer is a social problem, not just a public health problem. Forecasts say it'll be 2050 by now. With each third male or every fourth female directly or indirectly affected by cancer, so this information is really alarming to us. Compared to other EU countries, Croatia is now 2nd in death by malignancies. After heart and blood vessels disease, cancer was the second cause of mortality in the Republic of Croatia in 2019. According to HZJZ Cancer Register, 25,352 patients were newly diagnosed and 13,344 deceased. In people under 65 years of age, cancer is the most common cause of death, and more than 40% of those who died from this disease are at that age. Each day, over 25,000 people die from cancer in the Republic of Croatia, and every year more than 25,000 people suffer from malignancies. The most common types of cancer in men are lung and prostate cancer, and women have breast and colon cancer. Breast cancer is the third malignant cause of death after lung and colon cancer. Every day we mark a particular disease is important for raising the awareness of our citizens, our health system and society as a whole. Prevention of early diagnosis, response to preventive checks, modern treatment of imperatives are to significantly reduce these public health problems and therefore we as a SDP club also support this initiative. I have already mentioned in the replica, and I must again say that today was a really successful conference on the topic “The outcomes of treatment of cancer patients in the Republic of Croatia” in Hotel Westin, organised by Eurospeaker Romane Jerkovic, here from our committee we were the president of the Renata Sablar-Dračevac and me and an external member of my colleague Markic, others could or could not come. Unfortunately, there was no one from the Ministry of Health, there was the director of HHZO and he was a Eurospeaker fellow Ressler and there were a number of experts, representatives of associations, I say a very high-quality debate where there was actually a series of problems that were encountered not only by patients, our citizens, but also by healthcare professionals and the whole system, and a series of solutions were proposed. When we talk about survival from cancer as many people in Croatia who have actually cured cancer in Croatia, it is not exactly known, it is estimated that at this time around 170,000 of our citizens live with cancer. We don't know how much of this is actively being treated, how many palitative patients are, and that's why we should really roll the database or register. It is by declaring the national day of cancer survivors in the Republic of Croatia that the first week of June of each calendar year that the more talk about this problem, the more I believe these problems that we talked about today at the conference will be cleared up. The European cancer plan also approaches prevention, treatment, or care for people who have survived cancer, which in Europe according to some estimates is 20 million people. So, we have two important documents, the first European plan for fighting cancer, which was adopted on February 3rd, means the day in general World Cancer Day, which represents four key areas of action, namely prevention, early detection, treatment and diagnostics, and the quality of life of cancer and survival. We have already heard the fact that this is all intended for a total of 4 billion euros. Another important document for us in Croatia is the National Strategic Framework against Cancer 2020 through 2030, which was adopted after a long, long wait on December 15, 2020. What are some of the important goals that this National Strategic Framework provides for us? It is primary prevention, secondary prevention, cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, paliative care and pain relief. However, although this National Strategic Cancer Framework has been successfully adopted since then, over 19,000 people have died, and this National Strategic Framework has not yet been implemented, and we are actually waiting for this whole story when the action plan of the National Strategic Cancer Framework will be 2022 to 2024. We still have no idea who the members of the group are, or the commission. Now what are the possible causes of an unfavourable oncological outcome in the Republic of Croatia? High exposure to adverse influences, smoking, excessive body weight, unhealthy environment, lack of quality primary prevention programs, insufficient health enlightenment of citizens, insufficient early cancer detection programmes, excessive diagnosis, poor availability of quality oncology care, lack of radiotherapy and other expensive and sophisticated equipment. Many patients and patients complained that radiotherapy devices had delayed their treatment. Lack of multidisciplinaryity in oncology, lack of quality oncology databases and quality control, monitoring treatment outcomes, insufficient investment in all aspects of oncology, insufficient investment in education, prevention, quality nutrition, healthy habits from small legs to treatment. Insufficiently providing psychological assistance to the sick, raising quality of life and better quality paliative care for cancer patients. There is an extremely important co-operation of the state with units of local, regional self-government, co-operation with patient associations. The question of how much we as individuals and advocates can contribute to that, and we can do a lot. There's a question of a number of prejudices, the stigmatization of patients. Many are left without a job, not knowing how they will survive with what is really bothering them, and their diagnosis and pathways that must pass. We do not have a clearly defined patient pathway, so where, or within which time the patient should receive care. We don't have an accreditation of hospitals or cancer centers. This is what the EU is trying to do, and we will have to establish that. We don't have a quality oncology network in the Republic of Croatia, and that's on the Ministry. So, of course not every hospital can treat everything. These things need to be defined. Further Programme 72 hours, we medics remember that very well. So, since 2015, he has been promoted by Minister Varga, there has been success around the programme. Therefore, it is intended to treat cancer patients, so for color rectal cancer, breast cancer, malignant head and neck tumors. In this all had to know the plan of treatment and the fate of each patient. From 4 to 12 months 2015 2300 patients were taken care of in 5 Croatian KBCs. And what happened? 2016, Minister Nakic abolished it, as there was no effect. Well, I hope that kind of program comes back to life. I already mentioned the sick register. That's what we talked about at the conference today. We have important data on one side of the epidemiological registry on the other side of the clinical register. And what I personally say at every opportunity is cost-censored benefit analysis. The importance of national programmes for early cancer detection is exceptional. With regard to the breast from 2006 every two years, all women aged 50 to 69 are invited for a mammographic examination. It is very important for us to really motivate women to respond and early detection allows for better treatment and saving lives, and in the meantime, each woman should only perform breast checks every month. Furthermore, the response to the 2008 early effusion programme for colon cancer is only 20% to 25%. For the breast, 60%. The cancer door of the uterus, the early discovery started in 2012 and then died after a few years and now some changes are being made, so we wait for when it all comes to life together. Since 2020, lung cancer has been detected early, and this is one model by which soaps could actually be an example to other countries. Today I heard an interesting term at a conference, and it's called "preventophobia." So, because our citizens are afraid to go to national early detection programs. What's the problem? Are they well-informed? So we all have to ask ourselves as a society as a health care system why is such a small response? One more thing, the pandemic further reduced the availability of a health system for non-covid patients. We will see just what the consequences are, although the Ministry of Health has sent several letters to health institutions to give priority to the care of cancer patients, to name themselves co-ordinators for cancer patients, etc. But the fact is he was limited access to diagnostics and treatment. So the state will have to work on hearing this all. which is spoken, and I'm still going to be involved in an individual debate. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104955	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivana Kekin in front of the Green-Left Blocks Club, I'm sure she won't forget the stress she caused.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104956	No, no. You see, you wouldn't. I'll be just like, thank you for the introduction but I'll just concentrate and continue on what my colleague Marić mentioned, because I feel that when we talk about health in the Croatian Parliament it's only when we vote to mark some days. So that's the only time we're talking about health. When we mark the Day Against Diabetes, then the Day of Cancer Surviving, then the Day of Cancer. Only then do I think just recently when we had a day like this again, then we are, in fact, quite clear why we have a terribly high cancer mortality. It was specifically colon cancer, because our prevention program, I'm sorry there's no one from the ministry looks so I'll remind you that it's being sent to the patient in an envelope. He gets it by mail at home then if he would accidentally want to, so you can write him there, you can go to his grandfather, you can check yourself preventively from colon cancer, if you want to respond by mail, and then he has to write a letter, put it, go to the mail, then if he answers, then he actually gets the ability to test, so he presses his own chair, and then he sends it, and only then did he actually enter our preventive mechanism. Twice, right, two samples. So, I think it's really so demotive, dimming that it's weird that these few people who respond to preventive checks, they're probably the ones whose face someone had died of colon cancer so they know they're compromised, that they're responding to them at all. So everyone here has already mentioned statistics, so we know 14,000 people die of cancer annually. We are the second to die in cancers, from cancers in men in the EU, 7 from women, in women. Most often exactly the colon and lungs in both sexes. Then she goes to the women of the breast, to the men of the prostate. So, all in a row of cancers that are actually extremely preventative. Although modern medicine therefore makes great efforts to improve treatment methods remains the fact that once we have an extended cancer, the prognosis is mostly bad. And in principle, when we talk about survival from cancer or cancer cure, the key and crucial thing is to discover it at an early stage. Treatment of cancer at a later stage other than survival is significantly worse and terribly expensive and terribly burdensome for the health system. Early discovery of cancers in which many countries invest for which they have better results, and not as a colleague of Bulja, Grba Buljevic concluded because of the earlier determination of this day, not because of the day they are marking it, but because they are well implementing preventive programmes, therefore these programs aim to bring the risk population as early as possible under diagnostic methods that will be detected at the earliest possible stage of some kind of tumor. In addition to these preventive programs that we reveal, we also have a vaccine by means of screening methods. So we have a vaccine against one of the most common carcinomas, a carcinoma of the neck of the uterus where indeed if we vaccinate before they become sexually active even after that, then we will protect them from carcinoma of the neck of the uterus. This is therefore one of the most important tasks of the public health system would be to conduct screenings for the largest part of the population and therefore also to carry out vaccinations. Well, that's how we stand. We have three national cancer prevention programs, one for the colon I mentioned earlier, two for uterus cancer and three for breast cancer. So, about the colon here, I'll repeat again when it's discovered in the early stages, the survival rate is 90%. In Croatia, however, only 11% of colon cancers are detected early. Let's say in Slovenia an hour from here, over 50% of colon cancer is discovered in the early stages, with us 11%. So, if you get colon cancer in Croatia, the chance to survive is about 50%, as long as you get it in Slovenia or somewhere in Western Europe, the chances of survival are 65%. That's 15% more than I think I'd like to agree to. Another example is the carcinoma of the neck of the uterus where I repeat we have a vaccine, where Western countries and I repeat these again have come close to us that campaigns, educations have resulted in children being vaccinated up to 15 years of age 65%. How much do we have? Under 10%. For reasons of prejudice, for the sake of anti-vaxer, because the ministry again does not perform its post in terms of education, in terms of prevention, etc. So, we are here among the lowest in the EU by cleavage as well as in some of these other diseases when vaccination occurs. Therefore, we can conclude from all of this that preventive programmes exist only on paper, but according to the mortality that is significantly exceeded by the European average in Croatia, it is obvious that there is insufficient evaluation of neither who implements them nor how they implement them, nor what their effectiveness is. And their efficiency is low. Now we come to what already a person discovers has cancer, most often as we see it not in the early stages of Croatia, which is taking care of it. So, the extremely demanding care of cancer patients who need to catch both medical aspects and somatic and psychological and social, etc., we treat them surgically, treat them pharmacologically, treat them with radiation. And it is well known that in order to achieve optimal treatment results it is important to implement them in specialised cancer centers. So it exists outside, they are regularly licensed, evaluated, etc., with us look at the National Cancer Plan, today mentioned here, a strategic document developed by experts. It says clearly that oncological surgery is often carried out in Croatia by surgeons who are not closely specialised in the treatment of tumours, which, of course, is directly related to the poor outcomes of treatment. So, solely because of the inertness of the Ministry of Health to clearly define which surgical centres meet the minimum conditions for the possibility of performing certain cancer surgery, we patients are reducing the chance of survival. So we can conclude that when it comes to measures that require organisation and structure such as control of the implementation of preventive programmes and defining the conditions for the implementation of oncological treatment failures systems are evident, they are systemic, they are chronic, they last for years and our patients pay them with their lives, and our health system is the most expensive way of treatment, and that is pharmacological. According to the report on the consumption of HALMED in 2020, HZZO only singled out 2.8 billion kuna for pharmacological cancer treatment. According to HALMED data, the more interesting the year-on-year medicines from 2014 to 2020 have increased three times in just 6 years for the treatment of malignancies. They've increased three times. Has our survival increased? It's not. Well, then what's the pitch? I think the answer might be sought in the reports of the Croatian Medical Assembly and some other companies that tell us how much money the professional society received from the pharmaceutical industry in 2020. The first two societies on that list, and I note that this is not all the money they get, but only the one that goes through the Croatian Medical Assembly, so that is how it is seen. You have societies that aren't in that report, and they're also in this type of disease. So, the first two societies when money comes from the farm industry that flows through the Croatian Medical Assembly are society, Oncological Society and the International Oncology Society. So I think when we look at things from that perspective, then it becomes a little bit clearer why no one is motivated to adequately implement preventive mechanisms, so preventive programs. Because there's no money to prevent it, there's no money from the charter. So prevention, if we wanted to be cynical, just reduces drug consumption. We from the Green-Left Block Club will certainly support this initiative, but we are urging that, to increase the rate of cancer survival, we must start to create seriously, seriously implement preventive programmes. While they are the same on paper, and we treat expensive medicines whose malignancies have already spread, it will only serve as a painful reminder of all those we have lost without reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104957	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear Representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104958	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for this jokebachter respected Ivana Rimac Lesicki who you are upstairs at our gallery. Well, I was saying, so I'll be brief. It doesn't have to be repeated too much. I spoke to my colleague Renato Sablar-Dračevac from the Croatian Social Democrats club that why, which is her thinking why is so small a percentage of our citizens who apply, so they go to these reviews. And in fact, Renata told me something that makes perfect sense to me. So we kids learn to brush teeth and some basic hygiene when they're little. We parents do that when kids are little, so when they go to kindergarten. We who are athletes again know how important motor development is at the earliest age. So, and we know how important it was for us at the earliest age to know exactly what sport is and then it's known exactly, I don't know how important it is to start with gymnastics, then I don't know athletics to start with, then this and then go I don't know at six, seventh basics in basketball for example. And then you are if you're interested in that sport for 20 years you've been in basketball. That's how prevention is necessary here, and I really think that we as a state should do a lot more on it. So, every lip, I'm gonna do it again, because I guess we're so immersed in matter, we don't even recognize anything outside that matter anymore, or at least a part of us, a part of us. So, any lip that gets invested in prevention comes back a hundred times. So if we're going to look at the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through matter, so every lip, every kuna that we as a state invest in prevention, so to work with the youngest children, with our kids, to encourage them to sport, to practice recreation, to explain to them that when they come to that stage of their lives, it's very important to go to preventive examinations. So we're going to make a significant contribution to the nation's health and reduce the mortality of certain diseases, so here's exactly why cancer here. So here we go again, so I encourage the ruling who have this greatest responsibility because the scissors and skirt are in their hands. And here are their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Let's do whatever we can and really from the earliest age Croatian citizens are raised to live healthy, that it's good, that it's useful and that it will eventually live here this life on earth productively, here we can say that I'm not going to go into any other details now. So it's more productive, more meaningful, so it would be good if we as a state did what we could and that here we are from the earliest age going towards that goal. Once again, I'm particularly attached to this smoking thing. These guys would tell me, let's let Marine smoke more, but it's a terrible fact for us, so 15,000 people die annually from the consequences of smoking. So that's my disaster. And here's what I'm trying to say, Mr. Radin, is that you encouraged me, you see what kind of MOST party we are, so I don't give a shit what these people think inside. I mean pain, I can't be rude, I'm curious about what they think, but I'm free. So I'm free, I'm not dependent on anyone, and that's the way I was born, and that's the way I'm gonna get out of this world. So, I'll try to find people who are experts to help me write that bill and suggest it to the rulings to move that too. As for the tobacco industry, I'll give you my hand now. [[And I'll sign it for you.]] Thank you. [[And I'll sign it for you.]] So let's help people out here, 'cause watch sometimes for another 45 seconds. We mustn't look at this world just from our own perspective. And now I'm alone, so I don't care about anyone else. No, because then we're gonna go back and it's not gonna be good, but sometimes we have to pass certain laws that we know aren't gonna be too happy about, but we're protecting them with it. We protect our citizens. So let's go that way and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104959	Thank you. Mrs Sablar-Dračevac, on behalf of the promoter, is proposing for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104960	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I have to take my word for it again. I was encouraged in the front row by my colleague Maric. Indeed, today this conference was excellent, and what Professor Shekeri emphasized was this administrative bureaucracy. You around the world have highly educated bureaucrats who conduct means they enter these data related to each individual, with each individual patient, and of course the register is more quality. The more uniform these data are, the more the right and the proper question can be asked, then the more we have the opportunity to fight this bad disease better and make our outcomes different. And of course there are top specialists who are supposed to be spending, I'm not going to say a minute, but surely some significant time maybe even an hour and more to record all that data, and that's out of the question. Well, we didn't train people to do that kind of work. We definitely need to think about it and we need to find the funds for these administrators to put us in these registers because the outcome of the treatment is what's most important, and then we will know what we spent the money on and whether, as the colleague says, the cost of benefit really is relevant. The second would refer to this part of what counterpart Miletic said and means in the European Code it is the first place, not to allow smoking in your home, support a non-smoking policy at work. So, the European Code also provides these simple explanations where we can resist the exposure of toxins. And of course I think that timely education on healthy lifestyles is very important for our youngest, and then teaching them that it is a disease, that they are to fight with it and that they should go for preventive examinations. For the breast, mammography took a long time, but here we are at about 60%, which is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104961	Thank you. Mrs. Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104962	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague, we both agree that it was really a very high-quality conference, a lot of important things are said, and what I've been saying all the time, you've repeated, cost-efficient analysis. So our country, our administration has to understand that for some parts of it, it's much cheaper to educate a certain group of people, administrators that will be precisely specific and know what data should be entered. So, the data we've heard 30% of the job to get our doctors and nurses out of here would have been done a lot. So it can't be understood that this principle defines who has to do what job and how much it costs and how much you save on the one hand to have on the other. And another important piece of information, the EU aims to cover 90% of people with screening programmes. And where are we? We're far from it. So the same thing should be taken care of. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104963	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104964	Definitely in some period of time, it will not come to life right away in Europe either, but it is therefore very important not to waste very professional trained staff for a job that can only be well and exclusively educated in this segment, it needs nothing to know about cancers but just how and how to enter quality data. And it works very well in America, and I think the proposal of praise is worth it and that it should be brought to life in Croatia, because we also have a great burden with our general medicine doctors who simply out of the amount of administration are not able enough or as much as they would like to communicate with patients. Of course, there are other problems, but we will not open them up to new areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104965	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. With us in the Republic of Croatia we are a young democracy, a problem when within the same government changes the minister and everything starts from the beginning, and that new health minister thinks he's the smartest and nothing was right before. When we talk about the benefits of any public health intervention or health policy, they cannot be measured in the near future for both the politician and the non-health-related prime minister, it is not so attractive because in four years it will not give him results. When we talk about smoking, so in these 30 years of Croatian independence, we only had two national campaigns, the last one was 2011. The Croatian Day of Non-Smoking at the beginning of the Korizam, therefore, speaks enough about how much Croatia is ready for public health action and how much Croatian politicians are willing to devote to these healthy lifestyles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104967	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104968	Well, that's why we have to keep repeating the sixth mother studiorum, because there's nothing else for us because if we keep repeating something, I guess someone's gonna be able to hear us and I guess something's gonna happen. I agree with you that the smoking campaign should be more aggressive and from that year 2011, we had a complete ban on even thinking about smoking and in the assembly was it that way, yes, and this listen was difficult to adapt, but now we have a space where we all live and work free from tobacco smoke. It's not popular, but it's very good for everyone even smokers who breathe themselves a large amount of smoke voluntarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104969	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104970	Thank you. Here's a colleague from the debates so far, colleagues and colleagues can be heard that one of the problems is insufficient to prevent cancer. We know that we have these national cancer control programs, I'm wondering how the information on such a program comes to that end of our patient, let's call it what we want, if there's any problem, and if there's anything more we can do about it all together so that such programs can be heard and extended to all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104971	And to you. Excuse me. Here's the answer. [[Intruder Sablar-Dračevac: We definitely.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104972	We should definitely dedicate it to the citizens, not enough talk about it. And really, as my colleague Kekin said, this program is complicated, let's say, in colon cancer, but what we heard from the public health department is going to go through the design of a different concept that will be faster and simpler. I personally think it is much more effective if it is done through CESIH and through doctors of general medicine that should naturally be rewarded for their additional activity and work. So they're the ones who know patients very well, who know their history of disease and the history of their parents' diseases may still be this one and that way they can best tell who should go to which preventive examination and when.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104973	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Mrs. Andreja Maric has her own debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104974	Thank you very much. So now in an individual debate, I'm going to focus a little more on what's bothering our patients. A lot was said today at the conference, we heard a lot, and when we organized thematic sessions, we also know a lot who work in the healthcare system in contact with our citizens or patients. And now watch what people meet. So on the one hand, I said I didn't define the patient's path. So, the patient who gets diagnosed he's in shock, so he needs help already then, he needs some hand that's going to run it and say he's waiting for you, that and that, here you'll be able to accomplish it, that and that, the treatment will be scheduled then and then. And not to wait for the diagnostics, for the treatment to pass months, so the machine breaks down, so there's no answer why the machine is broken, when this one's gonna make up for the treatment, so people are desperate. On the other hand, when a successful treatment is already achieved, the rehabilitation of the patient, an cancer patient, is extremely important. That's what we've heard a lot about today, but here I'm saying I know about it anyway. So, a holistic approach to the patient. When the patient is in surgery, when he gets this table, so he needs to be well educated and there are nurses in my hospital who are educated for it, but if he has it in all hospitals, is it possible for all patients to know that he will prevent kahexia, which, to which preparations he is entitled, when he has to contact the competent doctor, how to prevent diarrhoea, how to treat this wound, the problem of incontinence of young women who have passed gynaecological or other surgery. Who's behind them? The issue of sexuality? So these are all the problems patients face, and there's not enough support or system. The question is, what is the support of the environment, the working environment, many have lost their jobs. So, what in some average patient who lives I don't know from what if she lost her job, who lives in a rural area, which means something to her now that registers, databases. It means a lot to us as a system, but it's important to her that she knows how she's going to get that chemotherapy, how she's going to go to radiotherapy, who's going to pay her way. So, praiseworthy, praises are worth the associations that have engaged in this, here in particular in the Zagreb area to organise the transport of patients. We were at a session of the Health Committee just saying that it should be the task of the state, that any patient or patient can come to their therapy at all, and not to wonder what they will pay the way with, is there even a bus with which to travel to a health institution where they will receive therapy. Furthermore, we don't have enough oncology nurses and educated actually medical staff. Not that someone wouldn't want to do it, but they don't have enough and they don't recognize that question as well as secondary prevention, primary, secondary and even tertiary prevention. So someone has to deal with these people and someone has to give them all the help and knowledge, not that patients are left to themselves. Here, in preparation, I came across one of the memos the D.A. sent to the Health Committee about the availability of medical services to cancer patients, which is exactly what I just mentioned. So that patients are in one powerless exhausting state, who pass chemotherapy that day, radiotherapy or anything. They can't even move on their own. According to the attorney-general, there are existential opportunities that patients face, low incomes. These patients are neither capable of working, and then he is still welcomed by his employer who is very forgiving for his expression of resignation, so is this the future of our care for oncology patients? It's scary. Many patients or patients do not even have the support of the family, this member of the husband, the wife who left him, so he has no idea what the patient has to face or what the patient has to face. So what's there to support the environment? So the scary things for which those who are fortunate never got sick in that way actually have no idea. But as I said by 2050, I'm afraid every three to four men or women will have someone who's got cancer or they'll get themselves sick. So, as a society, we have to ask ourselves what we can do. We talked a lot on different occasions that we and those who would be the key to our patient's care so for family doctors already gave them to me. We don't have enough already. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104975	Thank you, wait, wait, wait. If you like. [[I know, thank you.]] Mr. Miletic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104976	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, and then maybe, here's the late night so I can get a little more intimate, and then, for example, My wife died of a tumor and we as a family have 1,900 kuna, 23 years old she's got a job internship. So, for 23 years she's been working, she's contributed, and now, okay, I'm a parliamentary representative, but what about tomorrow when I go back to school and I'm a believer at 6,000 kuna. So, and now someone, and he's working 23 years, he's doing the state, he works, he dies, he dies, he dies, and then that country gives him less than 2,000 kuna. So shame is also here, so I think that this, this, this one dignity that we should still be a little different. And I also wanted to take advantage of this because I forgot to thank all the doctors before, really many of them that I don't tell everyone now, but many, a vast majority of them really conscious, empathy, all the staff and nurses, all of them and this should be thanked to everyone who works with cancer patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104977	Thank you, thank you and all of them. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104978	Thank you very much. Here, of course, I thank you both as a parliamentary representative and as a citizen at the end of the line, and one day perhaps a patient recognizes actually enthusiasm and contributes to all of us I would tell individuals. It's because our health system provides a lot to the patient, but that's not enough, so there's no systematic concern. We're waiting for reform, we're making suggestions, but still now and during the pandemic, you're also showing up in the care of cancer patients if you run into someone who doesn't have enough empathy, knowledge, who doesn't devote himself enough to such a patient, and you're free if you run into someone who's full of understanding, expertise, empathy, and then you've gone well so there's no systematic, systematic care of the whole system of society and health administration for these patients. And what I was saying, and here you have highlighted this low-income problem, so the state invests in treating patients with expensive drugs, we know, in the Committee of Medicinal Products I was, especially expensive drugs, so that, many, well a few tens of thousands of kunas, and then doesn't worry about what this patient is going to live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104979	Unfortunately, the weather. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maric, you mentioned a lot of things, the sanitary transport we talked about or the service of bringing patients in need of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, something that we would trust the joint forces to give our pain to change and the Obligation Health Insurance Act as they advised us. I'd say here on the trail of how you ended up so expensive drugs thank God that they're available in the Republic, and we're falling for some organizational stuff. We've also heard positive examples like Prof. Tomasha, who said it looks like KBC Osijek, but what it means to a lady from the Neretva Valley who needs to go to Dubrovnik for chemotherapy and radiotherapy, who does not know how she will go or will wait for hours, so these are problems to be talked about and which do not require large financial, financial resources, but is only an issue of an organisation that can definitely be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104981	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104982	Thank you very much. I've already talked once about the problem, I think in a free speech about the problem of this HZZO and the cost of transport. I thought I'd be able to refer to it now, but thank you for still giving me the opportunity to talk about it, so I hope that both the state, something and the units of local and regional self-government will get involved in the fact that our patients have a chance at all to get their health care or get into that chemotherapy and radiotherapy. So HZO when it gives a travel order to a doctor, over 50 km away, and what about those who are up to 50 km away, which is now in some kind of reform of the dish that we're hearing about to happen to here in Čakovec-Varaždin 16 km away, and now someone's thinking about the administration let's move the department to Čakovec, and then we'll put it on the oncologically, so we'll put it in Varazdin, whether this patient from Shtrigova, where there's less than 50 km away, gets a refund on that transport costs if these, the Health Insurance Act, don't change. What's going to happen to that patient?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104983	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Saberar-Dračevnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104984	Yes, this is an interesting question and should certainly be taken into account in this context of financial assistance to people who are unable to care or work for themselves and contribute. But what I wanted to ask you and what is a very important example to me on the Jordanian means Association of patients with lung cancer have a fantastic solution to the maze where they run patients throughout the system. When they are diagnosed with exactly who will direct the patient, each day they will be determined what they need to do with the search and help them during this entire period. I don't think it's a big expense to the Republic of Croatia, and a terrible lot would help a patient who's diagnosed at a time in a specific state, though, what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104985	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104986	Thank you very much. Well, I totally agree, we heard something about it today at the conference, and that's the hand that I mentioned, the arm that's going to run this patient who's here met with the diagnosis, and he doesn't know what he's going to do, and there's exactly the importance of cooperation not only with patients' health institutions, but also the whole system of health administration that has to give the importance of these associations, which must listen to them, accept what they're counseling, so there are people who have gone through all of this, who haven't had the opportunity to lead them through the maze, they haven't had a chance to sit with them and say these are your options, so we'll all be partners together in the fight against oncology diseases, not just oncology, but any of the others in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104987	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It is now up to Mr. Ivan Celic who will remain then because he will speak as in the name of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, but will say when he will separate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The rest of the small company, but chosen. I thought I'd talk first about mental health and correlation with cancer, but encouraged by what Mrs. Crescent used to say on several occasions. Ivan Kalogjera from the “We’re not alone” association about work, about work, tonight I’ll talk about how cancer and its treatment affect work ability. Several studies have shown that the rate of unemployment of cancer survivors is significantly higher than in the general population. In fact, survivors of cancer have about one and a half times more likely to be unemployed than those without a history of cancer, and about 25% of survivors will not return to work after 2 years of diagnosis. Furthermore, those who have survived, who return to work often face various difficulties such as physical, cognitive limitations, fatigue, depression, anxiety, but unfortunately also discrimination. The survivors can work because they need to work. For example, because they still have health insurance, that they have secured income, but they have the right to work because they want it. So because of a sense of normality, a personal identity, a distraction from disease, a need for activity, social contact. About 35 to 45% of people with a diagnosis of cancer in the United States are between 20 and 65 years of age and are therefore generally considered to be able to work. So in the United States, as many as 6 to 8 million cancer survivors are in some way in employment problems. This is just one of the indicators that certain projections related to the return to work of cancer survivors should also be done. Returning to work is a bit of a wrong name, because the term can imply that cancer and employment go in a linear sequence, and then the person gets diagnosed, and then stop working, and then he recovers, and then he goes back to work, so he has to go back to chemotherapy, and then stop again and so on. In fact, the survivors will never stop working after the diagnosis. I can stop and start on one occasion, on several occasions. I can continue my employment at some other level or another employer. Many cancer survivors remain employed, but they may have working limitations, such as changes in their working ability, which often encounters misunderstandings in Croatia or problems, hence restrictions in working productivity that can be physical or cognitive, or emotional, or can be both. Therefore, restrictions on work due to cancer can vary because of mild and transient to permanent, can lead to job instability, even if people are overqualified to do some work but have no other options, hence reduced productivity. The symptoms of cancer and its treatment can lead to worse work outcomes such as prolonged illness, changing schedules and roles, or unfortunately loss of work. Unemployment is not a full range of concern after cancer diagnosis. The survivors can combat insufficient employment, changes in work productivity or other influences. It is vital to stress the importance of helping cancer survivors across the range of different job-related issues, so early employment, retirement, loss of employment, reduced work can also be a problem. The psychological advantages arising from work can include feelings of purpose, emotional well-being, connection with identity and what is particularly important in improved quality of life. So, when there's a job problem or don't give God up to losing his job, those benefits can be lost. In fact, several studies have shown that people who have survived cancer, who are unemployed or who have some major difficulties in work experience greater prolonged mental stress and poorer results on all scales that measure the quality of life. So I think the issue of work, the question of allowing survivors to work is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104989	Thank you very much. The first replica of Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104990	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, here's a term I used, here's something you started talking about, which is training actually for a person who's going through the treatment, or finished a successful treatment to get back to work and therefore rehabilitating such a patient. And I say again, costbenefit means that if the state realized that investing in that patient is, say, operated on breast cancer, which is struggling with lymphoedema, which can't come to the turn for lymphoedema. Here they are today saying that better, of course, is hand-drinking than by means of the apparatus. And then what about that woman. You don't give her adequate rehabilitation and then she can't go back to work, she can't even work. The employer has no understanding, perhaps not enough to educate. How to convince that employer that he may be participating in some way so that the patient can get the job done as soon as possible before she gets fired and He doesn't care. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104991	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104992	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Maric, the worst thing that can happen is for a cancer patient to get fired. So because of certain limitations, a person's physical or mental nature is no longer able to work, so it appears so-called. So the presentation of the person wants to, but she can't, she's not capacitated anymore. And this is one example that we also heard at the the thematic session, so what are the possibilities, very poor opportunities for women, say breast cancer, how often they have the opportunity to get into lymphatic drainage. So that's all when we look, so the ones that come from the health system, that's all the amounts that aren't significant. But these inert structures from the health administration represent it as some kind of big, big increase in financial resources that absolutely isn't. And I think we're going back to that issue of organization. What the president said, so the Sailing Association, that's one way to go. But it would be better if it weren't for the association, than for someone in the system. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104993	Mrs. Sablar-Dračevac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104994	Yeah, I agree. This should be done by someone in the system and the system should be so organized that other than these professional administrators we also have the person best educated sister figure who could conduct patients because he knows what he needs. But I'm going back to this right to work. So that right to work is guaranteed by the Constitution, right? So that's something we all really need to function. But someone who had some kind of weight, for example, radical mastectomy, when they came back to their workplace, a lot of patients came to me, they talked about it in a shop. They ask him to continue to weigh heavy porridges that are neither good for the constitution of a woman at all, let alone for such a difficult patient. So we have to create a system that will allow you to do what you can, not ask yourself to do what they did before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104995	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104996	I couldn't agree more with you. This one misunderstanding, this one rigidity of the employer especially in the private sector. I think that's even more pronounced. So you have a person who's in one split. So she's burdened with financial distress, financial toxicity, and she's forced among other things to have health insurance so she can continue her treatment. It comes to the same workplace, it doesn't respect these restrictions, and it creates a huge, huge psychological distress. And in situations like this, you even have a person who's a high-end expert who then becomes a delivery agent or I don't know a taxi driver because he can't work anymore, like, no cognitive abilities. It's on the one hand, and on the other hand it's also the person who works, the woman who works at the store, who has to pull a beers or a cane of mineral, and it's just not possible anymore. So these are the problems that you definitely need to talk about and look for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104997	Thank you. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104998	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you, like you said, are saying that cancer affects your ability to work, and I'm not your profession, but I want to make my contribution, or I want to contribute to making cancer as little as possible. I am very sorry that this assembly is not full tonight and that up to one of 151 colleagues invites our citizens to conduct preventive checks, to respond to the calls we have and within the framework of the National Programme for Early Disclosure of Breast Cancer or Throat Cancer. The national early breast cancer programme is now starting the seventh cycle. Although the response of 60% over 7,000 women is precisely due to this program revealed that they have breast cancer, we can only assume what the outcome would be if they hadn't responded to this call. For the fifth year in a row, we can proudly say that we are recording a drop in mortality on this diagnosis, so here on my part, call all our fellow citizens to respond to these calls from the national programme, go to preventive checks to get as few sick as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u104999	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105000	Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev we have definitely made progress and there is a drop in the number of dead women who are suffering from breast cancer and there is a large role and an organisation of civil society, but of course also the County Institute for Public Health and Services who work in the county public health institutions. But there should be more here, there we should, so when we talk about the national breakthrough of colon cancer, let's just say we can't possibly be satisfied. I hope that this change and the arrival of the immunohistochemical test will certainly increase the percentage. But Dr. Sablar Dračevac mentioned the role of family doctors. Do you know how much it costs to motivate a family doctor to respond to a national breakthrough? It's about 30 kuna somewhere. So they're family doctors who know best, but you have to make some kind of stimulation possible, no matter what it's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105001	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105002	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. I've been listening very closely to your exposure and the problem you've presented is definitely a big problem, and I've been thinking all along that the whole story is that there's no answer in how to help these people, how one person who survived cancer is coming back to work, is finding a series of problems when you call it back, but we agree it's not coming back. Who do these people turn to? Who's going to help them first?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105003	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105004	Thank you. Dear colleague Nemet, thank you for asking. So there is a question of perception of general opinion of the impact on employers and of allowing the person who encountered the diagnosis, therefore from that first step to have certain support. Everyone needs to do their share. That's where anyone can make their contribution. So in those local communities that have better awareness of a particular problem, the results are better, the quality of life of those people who have encountered cancer diagnosis is better, the outcomes of cancer treatment are better. So there are no magic formulas but we should simply fight together this form of discrimination and allow these people if there are certain restrictions that they again feel comfortable in their workplace and give their maximum at a given time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105005	Thank you. And now you can continue as a Club of HDZ Representatives on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105006	Thank you. So, by reason and hopefully next week, there will be consensus that the Croatian Parliament will unanimously support what exists in some countries for more than thirty years. So every first week of June of this year, it will be June 5th to mark the National Day of Cancer Survived. This day for many years, therefore, in some countries that mark it, means a manifestation of the celebration of life where survivors gather with their friends, families and supporters to raise awareness, spread information, provide and educate people about available services but also give a kind of recognition to survivors all in the sense that after the diagnosis of cancer, these people testify that they can be full and fruitful. This national day is important because it affects many people, there is no one who does not have a closer or wider family and among friends with cancer diagnosis. When we talk about this subject, we always have certain associations about certain people with a name and a last name, so it is an opportunity for survivors to feel loved and important as they are. It is a step towards a complete fight against cancer and in some ways it may look sweet, but in the United States it is really one festival, one march that is celebrated with life and that shows that the fight against cancer is effective and that it can make it possible for the complete recovery of whatever doctors call the person in remission or that he is cured. Finally, I would also like to say about the importance of psychological support, at this very moment civil society organisations such as the All for It Association organise different programmes, and in the National Strategic Framework against Cancer has a special chapter on psychological support. Of course, it should not be binding on people who are diagnosed with cancer, but it is clear that they have a certain option and that they are given advice and that it is systematicized, and that they are not yet some private initiative and improvisation. Finally, the HDZ club supports the national day of cancer survivors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105007	Thank you. Now, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. Andreja Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105008	Thank you very much. So she would finally try to sum up what we heard and talked about today. So, despite the great diligence and enthusiasm and education of healthcare professionals in the Republic of Croatia quite a large range of medicines we have, unfortunately one of the worst indicators of the real state of the Croatian health system is precisely a sign of mortality from the causes that could have been avoided or prevented, and that is exactly the largest proportion of cardiovascular diseases, colon and breast cancer. Therefore, it is very important to raise the awareness of our fellow citizens about the importance of disease prevention, changes in bad life habits, response to preventive screening programs, need to increase the availability of early detection and treatment, provide psychological assistance to patients with cancer and other serious diseases, strengthen palitative care, cooperate and acknowledge in fact associations that help patients. Our country's biggest problem is to detect malignancies more advanced than in other countries. Developed countries in the north and west of Europe have a higher incidence of oncological diseases, but at a lower stage and with less mortality than they have in the east and south of Europe. So it's up to all of us to really educate our patients, or our citizens, to respond to as many preventative checks as possible, to systematic checks, to screening programs, and that's exactly what raising awareness is about for each citizen to actually explain what he's going to get by responding to this preventive review or systematic examination, so education and in any case not to be a preventophobia. Unfortunately, as many as 40% of cancer cases can be prevented, which means that we need to increase the action aimed at prevention, starting at the youngest age. It is a very important role, we have already mentioned our family medicine doctors who really know the patient’s history, the whole of his family, the role of nurses and patronage sisters, the importance of administrators. So not only in writing data into cancer registers, but when you're already sending a call to a citizen to respond to a screening program, he gets that letter read, somewhere he sneaks it up and that stays on it. But if the administrator had taken the task of calling again or in some way reminding that citizen to call and why it was important to respond to that preventive review, we would have some step forward again. The next thing is the role of our representatives, especially us doctors, but in fact all 151 of us who are here. So we have these days to mark, to address our citizens, to our voters, to encourage them, to motivate them. Round tables should be organised, addressed in radio shows, co-operated with doctors in their area, and thus contributed. Here I also found an article that impressed me very much, all of us medics are receiving this medical newspaper, so here's a good holy example where doctors have set up an association for cancer patients, it's worth commending them, it's the Cancer Prevention and Help Association for the Diseased "Be Well", Samobor, Rude, who have organized themselves to help not only their patients in their spare time but also beyond, organize breathing techniques, ways to prevent treatment, etc. So we all have to get involved in this whole story. Another big problem is that we are facing the growing departures of healthcare staff from Croatia, oncology departments are specific to us because the staff on them after years of work and psychological spending, it is really a very difficult workshop. It is difficult to find a replacement, there are not enough nurses on the market, and unfortunately the state does not care enough about fulfilling its obligations to employees, nor about increasing registration quotas for nurses or healthcare professionals, nor about improving working conditions. It is a very great responsibility of the health administration that all of what we are saying here with great strength to finally accept and adopt, to cooperate with patient associations, to cooperate with us who are here and some kind of profession and representatives to co-operate with professional associations of doctors, nurses, etc. Because that common approach is the only way we can go forward differently is not. So here we will once again support this proposal and work hard to improve the health status of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105009	Thank you very much. And now finally, on behalf of the Proposer and Proposer, because the board, Mrs. Renata Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105010	Thank you, Vice President. I won't keep you for 20 minutes. Thank you all for participating in this debate. I am very glad that this decision will also be taken by consensus, so it seems to me from the presentation of clubs and that is the most important of all because we send a nice message to health care is a supersede issue and healthcare is important to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. What I would especially like to thank once again for our real proposal who came to the board of Ivani Rimac Fox who remembered, or probably saw such a beautiful feature in America, and I think this is an opportunity to promote not only healthy lifestyles, but to promote a single thought about health but also that patients know that this is a healing disease, that this is something you can face and that you can work on further perspectives in life. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-21-0.u105011	Thank you, too. And with pleasure, I'm sure we'll all accept this initiative, I'll conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue with the final draft law at 9.30 p.m. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Record and Rehabilitation. Thank you very much and rest until tomorrow. Thank you. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK. Apprenticed representatives and MPs, in accordance with Article 1(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226, first good day... in accordance with the article rather than on behalf of a person, but in accordance with Article 1(2), the following shall be added: 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with two new points. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Structure of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures. That's, that's Bill No. 228 in the second reading of course, and the second is the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2021. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the main order have not been established that the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 11th session.
