ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u102839	My colleague Hajdas Doncic talks about the economy in the Croatian Parliament, especially the people of the ruling coalition, is the same as the story of John Lennon and the pearls, so unfortunately it does not pass. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you and I have known each other since '94. For years and for what I'm interested in is what you from the ruling coalition are coated with to simply refuse such debates from you and to drain from you. Your debates at the pioneer level are small things that simply do not hold water, but you hold power and here you are in favour of the fact that something else is being squeezed from the sphere of what is regulated by law. So they say that in carrying out its activities Croatian broadcasting is independent of any political influence. Independent of any political influence, although we must ask ourselves who ensures independence, the parliamentary majority. The parliamentary majority shall be elected by the Director-General, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. So it's a factography. HRT performs its function by quoting the public performance and recording of music content, especially from the field of symphony, choir, folk, traditional Croatian, jazz and entertainment music, and by organising events and concerts, especially national music heritage and contemporary works of Croatian composers, artists. In achieving the HRT programme, it is necessary to promote national interests. Well, here's an example, so let's take it easy on you. The master cycle of Croatian Symphony Orchestra 2022-2023 season 11 concerts one Croatian conductor, has Serbs, French, whoever you want, one, that's 9%. 34 works will be performed, 4 are works of Croatian authors, one is a living work is shorter that is 11%. 16 guest performers of this Croatian 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The Croatian music law must account for at least 40% of the total music content used. This part is usually funny and interesting to me because in Croatia, protected species are protected from wolves, donkeys and further through Croatian actors and Croatian musicians and composers. Now, by ruling this is your HRT independent of any political influence, you've set them up and this is what they've agreed to. And I'm saying this not because it concerns me directly but because they are threatened and concerned Croatian composers, serious composers. Call Maestro Tarbuk and ask him how he feels about it. Call other Croatian composers of contemporary artists and ask them what they think about it. Is that your new Croatian sovereignty? Is this how Croatian culture and national identity are protected? Is that your plan? Do you think it's good and enough that your President Almighty Pharaoh has on speed dialing at the speed dialing of two French and one Kraut and then he solves everything. And she and this little money that's being allocated and given and bought in the HRT hack, and no one's looking at it goes to who, dematize me, look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, say I'm wrong, say there are more Croatian conductors in the master cycle, say there are more Croatian artists, say there are more Croatian composers. I'll wait until the time is up. I've got 26 seconds left and I'll gladly give my time to you to deny me. And so it's not just in Croatian music, it's in Croatian economy, it's in Croatian finance, it's in Croatian demographics. Who are you serving? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u102948	The sixth debate of the HDZ Representatives Club and respected counterpart Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u102949	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Usually and here there have already been talks about fuel prices, gasoline and oil and here colleagues say you see this government has been vaccinated, not doing a job that needs to be done. Any responsible government and market-oriented not to intervene and has interference in any competition. However, this government was just forced to react to state interventionism in the way it reacted, and a regulation on the establishment of the highest retail and wholesale prices of oil derivatives was adopted at a telephone session yesterday. Also in the Regulation amending the excise duty regulation on energy and electricity, which remains the same as in the previous 14 days for the determination of the highest retail prices for petroleum products. In this context, the current reduction in excise duty on petroleum products is extended by another 14 days. So, the goal of this government is to maintain the standard of citizens and preserve it, and to ensure the supply of energy. Also, provide sufficient income during the tourist season. Let us not forget that, had it not been for these interventions, the price of oil or gasoline would have been over 20 kuna. So this government is very concerned about what is happening and how it can be favourable and how it can influence to maintain the price of fuel. This price of gasoline will continue to remain, therefore 13,08 for diesel and 13,50 for Eurosuper and where there is a possibility of a way to regulate the market is on highways where these prices are slightly higher even if they are also expected to be cheaped. Which is why there was even state interventionism and what was, was the trigger, so as a trigger, it must have been a pandemic that disrupted supply and demand relations and supply chains. Compared to that crisis which I was in the financial crisis in 2008, this crisis has therefore been a pandemia, and now, unfortunately, with a war on Ukrainian territory and Russia's attack on Ukraine, it has indeed disrupted the market chains and energy coming from Russia normally that they have entered the pasture and under certain EU control. When we look at the price of barrels of oil then we see how much it's oscillated, it is now from $115 to $120 per barrel and what is certainly necessary to stress that this price depends very much on how this world works, no war has brought any good to anyone, nor on those who are aggressors, therefore this war has also disrupted relations on the market both gas and oil. Therefore, what we must point out, which is that this interventionism has ensured that the price of oil and oil derivatives does not go to the sky and that the government is very much taking care of both the standard of its citizens and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103036	And the 10th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS esteemed colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103037	Good afternoon, everyone. Pushing and pushing under the rug of corruption affairs by those politicians who are positioned at the very top of the state government for this government is so successful that it is itself, and unfortunately a good part of the public convinced that it is something completely, completely normal. Unfortunately, in this series of corruption affairs, which led to numerous ministers being replaced as a flow water heater, one affair still rises above all others. It's a Borg affair. In contrast to all those who ended up somewhere in drawers, in shelves, in the impediment of the long-term judicial tape, the Borg affair was resolved by an express quick procedure, so that it never really opened and in that sense represents one superstandard of this government. I'm saying, with her media skills, she's been able to convince almost the entire state that, in that case, there's one perfectly normal, normal phenomenon. It was presented as saving one company, saving the economy as a whole, and what is it really about? The Borg affair showed by the way Agrokor company law was passed, that there is no state in which it is so easy to occupy the top of the government by an interesting group that has the opportunity and the ability to make laws by its own means, to kidnap a company and then make a big, fat, fat and fat profit from the same company. It's, I say, according to the standard of this government one perfectly normal, normal phenomenon. Martina Dalic herself, who for all she did, had the approval and blessing of the fellow ministers, starting with the finance minister, who once worked in the same Agrokor, of course, perfectly normal, and the minister lied, lied, lied to the parent council when answering questions about who wrote the law and put together. Not only did Martina Dalic lie, he lied to the prime minister himself. And that's one normal phenomenon. Her statements were so scandalous that they deserved the entire government to fall, but those statements she gave before the BUSKOK were even worse. These statements showed that the leaders of the SOA, the heads of the FINA, should leave public office, all of them working outside the scope of their powers, but it became normal, too, if all of this was tolerated by the parliamentary majority. Martina Dalic was later rewarded by the government putting her in one in Podravka, which still has a good share through her shares, and that is normal, she came to pay several hundred thousand kuna by including various bonuses, of course, and normal. The same Martina Dalic, corruptly rehabilitated these days, is giving statements to our citizens about whether the recession will come and how it will affect them. Well, I'd say that someone in her pay grade won't be harmed by any recession, and it won't do much harm to her husband. And it's a perfectly normal phenomenon. It is normal for a country that has its own oil, which had its own refineries and its own oil company to allow through its TC ministers to simply transfer that oil to the neighbouring country, there, of course, the oil is processed, and then Croatia imports it more expensively to its citizens. It's all normal. It is normal for a TC corrupt to booola also to be awarded for all its corrupt manifestations by becoming a vice governor and a member of the CNB, it is all normal. It is also normal for Martina Dalic's husband as one of the Croatian members of the INA Administration to remain in that INA. Besides high wages and he got several hundred thousand kuna worth of work bonuses last year. It is normal that he was awarded for all those business decisions that actually go in favour of the Hungarian company. It is that the company is allowed to acquire stakes in the neighbouring Slovenia's OMV. So, dear citizens and dear parliamentary deputies, if we're looking for the source of anything abnormal in this country, we need to start with HDZ, and the way to end it, the election. and their shift. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103038	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Boric, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103039	Thank you very much. Representative Oreskovic is downplaying and presenting a series of untruths here from his corner, given the time and flow of time, but I wanted to say that citizens know that she is the only 151 MPs in HS who is a member of the two parties. One has to take money from taxpayers from those citizens to deal with politics in the other party. It's not done by any of the 151 MPs in this assembly except the lady and it's normal for her, and she invites everyone else to say something's not normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103040	Thank you. You know for yourself that this was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, by getting a warning. We are going to another debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed colleague Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103190	Dear Vice President, Honorable President HS Mr. Jandrokovic, dear colleagues and colleagues. Sir hard Ementer 1kg 74.99 today is the price 89.99, this morning my manager copied and sent me prices. Fat 1kg 16.25 today is 25 kuna. Cocoa Kraš 17.49 today is 21.49, cheese semi-hard Tilzit, listen now to this, 83.99 to 94.99, chicken breast skinless 47.38 to 56.99, turkey chest file 83.70 to 102 kuna 99 lip, chicken mini file 4 pieces from 29 kuna to 35 kuna, flour smooth 5kg T-55 from 29 kuna to 35 kuna. It's a disaster. So like this, I think the fuel should go a liter of 100 kuna, let the meat of 400 kuna cost our Croats all the good. We'll be warriors, heroes of the living room, strong, brave in commenting through social networks, and that's it. I will not say what would happen in countries where strong democracy and how much citizens should react. Does this government feel responsible for the fact that the reduction in VAT rates on food and food products has hardly manifested several billion kunas at lower prices than all the amount has gone into the hands of the owners of the now wild trade chains? Does the government feel responsible for billions of euros lost during the closure of the economy during the pandemic? Citizens must know lockdown is the first reason and the euro is now the second reason for these prices. Does the government feel responsible for the inflation that is present because of the many billions of artificially pumped into the economy? Does this government feel responsible for the demographic breakdown, the breakdown of agricultural production, the emigration of young people, the crisis with the energy that we have here? He can't feel it. The prime minister and ministers seem to be vaccinated not with booster doses and the fourth that comes then both fifth and sixth, but as being vaccinated from any sense of responsibility that shows that they live in completely unrealistic worlds, separated from the reality of the Croatian people. The crisis is here, it's coming and it's going to be strong. It will occur primarily through disturbances in the energy agricultural market, and next year the moratorium for the sale of agricultural countries to foreigners stands out. A few days ago, the former president of the republic said that Slavonia should be plowed, so she was on her way, and the spitter was on her way. You know what? It seems to me that if something doesn't change, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will plant potatoes on the balconies of their skyscrapers and be happy if something grows. It's time to better control the incentives we give in agriculture, make every effort to put all agricultural potential in place and ensure self-sufficiency in food production. We have potential for that. So I encourage the ruling to have knowledge, will, energy, if they have to do it, if they don't find people to do it. Also, in the end, I want to commend the ruling not only to be critically too much in the mood that they have not succumbed to the scarecrows. Here not this other side of our constituency left has been calling all the time lockdown shut yourself in the basements, no. And that's why it's a good thing the rulings didn't give in to the scarecrows who'd like to shut it all down again, and then when the Croats got gas at 200 kuna, they'd say, "Here it is." So, the Croatian people must know these prices we have, the first reason lockdown, the process of pauperisation, the poor citizens I would say globally, and then locally in our Croatia. The second reason is the introduction of the euro and then the third reason is Ukraine. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103269	Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, a respected colleague, Raukar Gamulin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103270	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, June 20th is marked World Refugee Day. Tens of thousands of people daily seek their own corner of life, flee from war, persecution, torture, restriction of elementary freedoms, in search of peace and the possibilities of normal life, work and education. In this endless column of unfortunate people who are forced to travel for many years with a very uncertain outcome are a special category of unaccompanied children. I am sure that we would all agree both by ruling and opposition that we are in principle against any abuse of children and that we would jointly support the right of children to a peaceful and dignified life. And yet there are children at Croatian borders who have been trying for months and years to reach the Western EU countries where they are awaited by civilized acceptance and the opening of opportunities for decent life in security. These children go through terrible situations from sleeping in the snow, meeting with wolves, bears in Croatian virtues, days without food and water, passing through minefields to cruel pushbacks from the Croatian border, blows, torture, broken bones and open wounds. On World Refugee Day in our Club, we were visited by two young people who tried as children to cross the Croatian border and personally experienced all the horrors I had caused. Said Khan from Afghanistan and... The Syrian Kurdistan testifies to the horrors that they themselves have experienced and which are experienced by unaccompanied children today at Croatian borders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has repeatedly rejected my asylum application and illegally expelled me. I slept in the open, in the snow, passing through minefields. I've had children traveling with me who were younger and because of all these kids who are still on the road today, I'm talking here today. Says Sayid, who's 15 years old, he's on his way, and... He's joining him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I tried to go through Croatia 12 times, brutal police violence by the Croatian border police separated me from my younger brother. I don't understand. Why is the police so brutal towards us? Why is it bothering us? Sayid and... Today they found their new home in Belgium and the Netherlands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual report of the independent monitoring mechanism of the police officers of the Ministry of the Interior in the area of illegal migration and international protection for the past year was published on Friday, 1.7 and shows all the shortcomings of systematic surveillance, shows clearly why today some other Sayid and... continue to suffer at Croatian borders against the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report concludes that the mechanism does not have the authority to make unannounced visits to the green border or to see the information system of the MUP. And exactly the green limit is the last six years where 90% of the rough pushbacks have been going on. So where Croatian police should be most monitored, members of the mechanism cannot come without notice. The report concludes, in describing cases of illegal use of force, irregular migrants have instructed that the force was applied by persons in dark uniforms without markings with boys on their heads equipped with sticks and that is all. And that's all. Who are these people, who organize these groups, thus the mechanism did not deal with, and... And Sayid also witnessed to us about such groups of beatings operating on Croatian borders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We suggest members of the mechanism to watch the film Shadow Games on the journeys of refugee children without escort because it is the best document on their deaths. It is clear from this report that the monitoring system needs to be reformed, because while monitoring will be carried out in agreement and accompanied by those to be monitored, there will certainly be no real surveillance, and refugees, especially children without escort, will continue to suffer at Croatian borders. Let's just imagine they're our kids. That our kids have to sleep in the snow, no food, no water, get hit with sticks by some guys in black uniforms, no markings with phantoms on their heads. We would fly and protect them and save them. And why don't we take off and save... And Said? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are they less valuable than our children? Why are we letting our head turn to the fact that Croatian police are making it impossible for children on their way to safety? What kind of people are we? It is finally time for the Croatian state to become solidarity with the suffering of refugees. Without that, our pompously announced entry into Schengen 1.1.2023 could experience serious obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103359	We are going to the 4th debate The Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103360	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Something rotted in the public facility of the Plitvice Lakes. Last week, I spoke in a free speech about how the Plitvice Lakes are struggling with labor, while the students, the children who finished their tourist routes, living in the NP area, are unemployed because they do not have the conditions of competition enough work experience. After that, several dozen former and current employees of the Plitvice Lakes appeared to me and talked about the problems they face daily. I'll just read some. I've been seasonally for over 10 years there are people who have been seasons for over 20 years, and at the same time there are individuals who are politically alike, so they got a contract indefinitely in just a few months. I lived and worked at NP Plitvice Lakes 11 seasons, never had a chance to get a permanent contract. In 2020, when the Covid-19 virus started to cancel our contracts for the 2020 season and as dogs they rejected us and I was frustrated and packed up went to Germany, there I work and live for two years with my wife and two small children. No one responded as it was in 2020. A contract for 420 seasons has been annulled, and today they're struggling with labor. One of the biggest problems is currently fire protection at Plitvice Lakes Public Institute. According to the MUP's solution, there are numerous irregularities, the public institution of Plitvice Lakes is listed in the first category of fire threats, the public institution of Plitvice Lakes is the said solution of the ministry received on 8 August 2018, until today it has been three years and almost 11 months nothing has been done on this issue. Based on the current assessment of fire hazards and technological explosions, the Plitvice Lakes public institution should establish a professional fire unit in the economy according to the Regulation on the minimum technical equipment and funds of fire departments. She has a duty to have a professional fire department in the economy based on the Fire Protection Act and on the basis of the Fire Department. Also, according to the Fire Department Act, the conditions of employment of professional firefighters are clearly defined. The current systematization of jobs in the public institution of Plitvice Lakes in the Department of Fire Protection is not in line with the Fire Department and for this reason persons who do not have sufficient qualifications can be employed. Because of inadequate fire protection, no one is safe. 24 August 2019 It burned down a fully wooden house 20 times 10 meters in Plitvica village of Plitvice Lakes municipality within the borders of the NP and during the time two firemen from the Plitvice unit were injured. The establishment has scheduled to establish a professional fire department in all points of the Fire Department and thus directly endanger human lives, property, flora and fauna of the largest, oldest and most famous NP in the Republic of Croatia. Due to the failure to establish a unit, the public institution of Plitvice Lakes was no longer able to register all fire trucks and was completely out of vehicles with fire extinguishers. And the question arises what does the management of Plitvice Lakes do? Apparently there's no hearing. The NP goes down from day to day and it's just a question of when the worst will happen, don't give God some fire or what's worse to lose some human life. Then who's going to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103389	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we begin our work today with the presentation of the position of representatives clubs and independent representatives, the first in line today is colleagues Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103390	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it today, I'll try to touch two topics, one topic is so-called. the united opposition in HS, or their boss, Mr. Peja Grbin, and the second topic that is most current, which is the topic of fuel collection in Croatia, of course throughout the world. So Mr. Peđa Grbin, today the president of the SDP, often like his mentor from Pantovkat, Mr. Milanovic, former SDP chief, is reaching for an inappropriate dictionary, so in the absence of arguments to cover up his own ignorance of fellow MPs and to call anyone ugly expressions. That's how it was a few days ago when I warned him that he hadn't read the article. The 21st Croatian Constitution that every human being has the right to live then he calls me the one who read it an ugly expression, the same thing he does in lack of arguments, in lack of common sense and his mentor from Pantovkat. This way, I must tell Mr. Grbino that when we look at today in the context of the time of the former SDP president, the one between him and Milanovic, Mr. Bernardic, was a spaceship for him, and that his ability to deal with politics is definitely proportional to his height and his staff, the size of his head, and if he has any sense of social democracy, the best thing he can do is leave politics and leave the SDP alone. The only thing he did was throw half the MPs out of his party, so he threw them out on the street. I don't really know what kind of advice he'd give him, as soon as he's dealing with it, maybe given the height, he'd be picking up bananas, but I believe he'd mess up there, too. Although I am not a supporter of the SDP, I believe that Croatia needs a strong Social Democratic Party in opposition, of course, and with it at its head, it is unlikely that it will exist soon. And maybe another little question for Mr. coat of arms, so let him show that famous payment card with those 30,000 kunas he allegedly paid to some charity group. I doubt, justifiably doubt that the money not only took it, spent, taxpayers' money, but didn't even pay it to anyone because it obviously cost him in view of the XXL probably big ones. As for the price of oil on the world market here, I have to admit that we're all very concerned, here's J.P. Morgan gave one prediction so that in that worst oil price scenario, we could go to $380 per barrel, for those who don't know today is about 110-115, and there's a difference from day to day, week to week, so that would go 3.5 times more than today with another problem that's very big, which is market disturbances, of course there's Russia, but there's problems in Norway that is a major oil producer, and there's Libya. Here I have to look back on one problem that HS wasn't talking about. Namely, state employees and officials, and not only do they continue to be sent on the official road by personal car, their personal car gets 2 kunas per km, 2 kunas per km, and when the fuel was 3.5 kuna and there were 4 kunas, and today there are 16 kunas on the highway. At that time when it was 3.5 kuna it could even be earned nicely, when there were 7-8 kunas, come with depreciation you were somehow at zero, but today definitely the one who was sent by his employer on the official road by his personal car loses financially. I think that this problem should be discussed very quickly, because many who have low wages anyway, and if they need to use their personal cars for official purposes are in big trouble, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103472	The third debate of the House Movement Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague of Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103473	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I barely went out for this Assembly pay phone. Never with so little will and moody as it is now. I wanted to illustrate what I was saying in ten days. To illustrate the truthfulness of what I am saying and the communist Yugoslav Partisan lies, counterfeits, counterfeits and evils and crimes they commit towards the Croatian people. The children's camp in NDH, this painting was created in Serbia, and especially the fertile soil found in Sisak near the mentioned Sisak mayoress. For the first time in my life, I insulted someone like that. And I'm not too proud of it. I don't care what she looks like, but her spirit, I was describing her spirit when I was talking about appearance. In 2017, somewhere before the end of the year, she suggested that her city council, which she held under control, be named by Diana Budisavljevic, which is completely justified because this woman, Diana Budisavljevic, was really pushing for and trying to get children from Kozara regardless of who belonged to 90 more than 90%, and children were Serbian Orthodox children, she really tried as a humanitarian to help them and succeed in this and in serious co-operation with the NDH authorities. There's as many interesting details as you like. The most common investigation suggests that 10,000 such unfortunate people were fostered in the city of Zagreb, and we are 238 in the city of Belgrade, and the government took hold of Milan Nedic's head, so it is possible that we Serbs are like that towards our people. So these are the kids from the mammal camp. Do you know where the photo came from? At the Mataruska Bani in Serbia and I am angry and nervous because I did not get a photo in which you can see very well, you can see the background and you can see the building today. So, this one mentioned that I will not mention or describe to her the look, nor her name and last name she put in a session of the city council at the last minute a proposal to call the park or the perivo name Diane Budisavljevic because if she had sent it in the prepared materials, people would have studied and seen. So it says that in the Ustasha concentration camp where children were killed that Diana Budisavljevic was pulling children, etc., several conscious people from the Croatian opposition unfortunately from the left no one was aware enough because they forget, I told them 5 times from here that Vladimir Bakarić and Stevo Krajačić were much better and more serious about defending Croatian interests in conflict with Serbs than they are today. So, the document adopted by that occasion goes into the archives for 50 years, especially 150 years, when someone finds a document that says it was a Ustasha camp for children, not a shelter because it's in the centre of the town of Sisak, it's clear to every normal person that there's no talking about any kind of camp, some kind of abuse, killing children, but it's a dirty prank of national traitors, which unfortunately the left of Croatia turns into. I have in my soul all the left elements you want, I often say I'm a left-wing nationalist. And that's why this left-handed, unfortunate brother, both here and there, and he can't become a left-handed Croatian. Next, what I wanted to talk about, I wanted to talk about the character of World War II in these places, I said last time. Someone's gonna deny it, someone's gonna come with me in the controversy? No matter what anti-fascist struggle, it lasted only 10 days when the Yugoslav army resisted fascists and fell and then turned war into civil war. Citizens of Serbian nationality are attacking Croatian citizens just as they did in '91. To us. Broz only joins the 22nd, what this civil war incomparably strengthens and invents another frat war. Had it not been for Broz or for Serbs to be slaughtered in Serbia on the part of the Partisans or in Croatia would have been slaughtered by Croats on the route of Ustasha and Partisans. And instead of being fair enough to accept the thrown glove, so there's television, we Croats don't have television, but they have... they have a Serb minority connection to enable one show where I'm going to meet them. Thank you very much. [[The incursion president: Thank you fellow Pracchin, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103585	As the 7th, a respected colleague, Hajdas Doncic, will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103586	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, it is true that what my colleague before me had in the debate that the government is probably trying to mitigate certain inflationary pressures that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and colleagues from the Most have also cited the fact that prices of different food products have actually increased by more than 20% and that is all true, but if that is true, then it is also expected that a stronger, better and greater step so government, especially in protecting the most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say that? Because you have in most, so I'm going to say the mass of media and other mainstream media actually the successes of the government of the Republic, now as I don't know, 4% are up, pensions are growing 4%, and here when we look at Skoru, he knows the inflation is for the poorest 20%, it's not, it's not 11%, that's why it's the most grown food sector, and people who have the smallest incomes, once again, I'm not on the economics class, they're actually spending the most on food. And then you have one good news that also went a little bit below the radar, which is that I mean the union in HAC even though everyone was rising when they heard that the union in HAC, even if it's cute, actually introduced a variable wage calculation, so by the consumer price index, of course, which is reduced, and that's good because in these inflationary moments, it's the only way to protect the most vulnerable groups of citizens. So I'm going to repeat again what the SDP suggested a month, two, three months ago, so what's not done, what's not happening. So, we asked first of all to change the way pensions are coordinated, so by the consumer price index, it means that consumer prices are growing so some pensions are growing because pensioners are basically the most vulnerable. We said you should provide a new energy supplement for the most vulnerable households, but it should now be expanded because SMEs are small or medium-sized crafts and businesses, so look how much their electricity prices have increased 200 to 300 times higher, so from cafes, bakerys, craftsmen, so everyone who makes up that group. Now I'm going back to the oil derivatives. Yes, the government intervenes and the government announced the vouchers in the month nine. These vouchers will probably be intended for only one category of fuel consumers, and I will ask the question of what is wrong with others, what about those who, in fact, have to spend most unfortunately fossil fuels and who are full of budgets, so they could issue vouchers, so they will probably stay somewhere on margins or below grains. So, I once again argue here, so the only solution is now at EU level, of course, the only solution is a broken sacred cow, and that's the fuel VAT, so it's no longer charged at the highest rate, so I don't understand why there would be no consensus right now means that it's shrinking to the middle rate, to the lowest rate depending on the state to the state, so this doesn't make any sense, this absolutely doesn't make sense. The price of fuel is one of the biggest things to say to an inflation accelerator that is cost-effective, and on the other hand, look at what serious countries and serious economists are following, it is, let's say, a producer's announcement, and I look at Germany, it's one serious state always, look what employers are saying, tell you that they have expectations that they will have to rise again, so the prices of food products, which will then, with the post-fund, with a little delay in spilling into Croatia, will spill over into Croatia and then you have another interesting information when we're at oil derivatives. So in July 2008, you know how much oil barrel was, 143 dollars, July 2008, and the price of fuel was 9.65, I'm talking about gasoline, diesel was 9.93 today, I think, today we're at about 112 or 114 depending on the stock price limit, the price of barrels, and how much is the price of fuel. So, of course, the largest part of it was the excise duty that was then less, which was less. Okay, having another one of those, it's not exactly what we're saying is the fourth paribus conditions aren't applicable was the impression of something weaker to say so, and that's why I say VAT isn't a sacred cow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103708	Now, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Daus, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u103709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The air we breathe and pollute, the water we drink and pollute, the land we feed on and the land we poison and the space we live in and the land we permanently destroy. Until when? Where is this border between capital and humanity, growth and sustainability, the development of civilization on the one hand and its destruction on the other. In order for responsible policies to be able to balance, which will enable sustainable development, which will define the frameworks and sustainability. Shouldn't the state create preconditions and ensure the feasibility of such policies? You should, yeah. But it's not or at least it's not enough. We'll have a chance to talk and this week we'll talk more about air, water, soil protection. Today I will focus more on the very space, that is, its devastation, permanent destruction, and besides, it is also a causal link to air, water and soil pollution. And that's not where the state has done enough. Although it began something like a ban on land parceling on small particles that we supported in this House, and it did not solve the essence itself, the very essence of the problem. But it appeared there in Istria a woman director of Nature Histrice, a public institution for managing protected parts of the nature of Istria County, she said quite a bit. A lot of devasting space, a lot of wild construction in a protected nature, and it showed state institutions how to do a job brave, fearless, nature-protective, space-saving, and it began to solve chaos in a space that is a protected part of nature. Before and before that, a man from Rovinj said a lot, a lot of devasting space, a lot of wild construction outside the construction area and showed the other mayors and mayors how to fight for their city, for their community. A brave, fearless fighter for sustainable space management, a space that is governed by systematic spatial planning. And it appeared after that a few more of them, they also said a lot of devastation space. I don't know how long he's gonna solve his problems that way. I don't know how much of a success they're going to make on their own, either, but I know they've shown that they can. And following the ban on land parceling, emergency access should be made to the prevention of chaos on forest land. IDS has a solution to how to regulate it legally. Soon the public will be familiar with it. I hope that the ruling majority will recognise it as well as with agricultural land, understand this problem and that there will be enough hearing to further regulate it through legislation. But what is still the key to the solution is building inspection on the ground. There's not enough inspector. The legal framework on which I can act is not good enough, and that is to be changed if desired. Cities and municipalities that want it and need it, not everyone, some have to take over construction inspection tasks in some form as it regulates and reacts in a spot daily on the ground. I can hire enough inspectors, they're gone. It's not their fault, there's few of them. They are paid fairly, the necessary funds for this are obtained by the collection of dragon penalties, from which labour can be paid, i.e. inspectors themselves. In a very short time, the situation in space will be resolved. It can be handled by the state, but it'll be a lot slower. In the field, it's getting rid of it more locally. All it takes is will, nothing else. The director of Nature Histrice, the mayor of Rovinj, showed it and proved it. Speaking of Rovinj, the Adriatic pearl was included in the list of the most beautiful cities at sea in Europe. In addition to rich architectural and cultural heritage, the result is that someone has been caring for the city for decades, someone systematically cares about the space that it does not devastate, that there is no excessive construction, that there is no disturbance in the vision, landscape, it is building that is happening to be planned. But in order to remain not only in Rovinj but in the whole country, of course, there is a need to protect space. With a strong field control system, the criminal liability of the offender and in order to be regulated by law as the basis of all of this. The IDS will certainly offer solutions that will form part of the legislative proposals in the next period. If I really love this country and we want to permanently protect space, I hope that we will have a consensus on that path, regardless of the political omen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117126	We are now going to: - Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2021/784 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 on the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 297 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 297. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I call on the now respected Secretary of State, Juru Martinovic, to give an explanation for the final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117127	The Honorable President of HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. Since 2021. EU Regulation 2021/784 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 on the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet, which introduces a direct commitment to actions taken by accommodation providers on the server and the competent authorities of Member States to combat the spread of terrorist content on the Internet. For the purposes of the Regulation, Member States should appoint competent authorities to entrust the performance of tasks prescribed by the Regulation, which are the issuing of orders for the removal of terrorist content, the examination of cross-border orders for the removal of terrorist content, supervision of specific measures by the provision of accommodation services to the server, and the imposition of sanctions against the providers of accommodation services on the server. The proposal for a law therefore provides for the entrustment of the functions provided for in the Regulation to competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia as follows. The MUP is the authority responsible for issuing orders to remove terrorist content and for considering cross-border orders to remove terrorist content from the internet. The Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency shall be the competent authority for the decision on the exposure of the terrorist content of the server's accommodation service provider and for the supervision of the implementation of specific measures by the provider of accommodation services on the server. The Regulation provides that any natural and legal person is entitled to an effective legal remedy before a competent national court against any measure taken under the Regulation. The draft law therefore proposes provisions on legal medicines as well as time limits for their submission, the powers to submit them and the effective and local jurisdiction of courts to decide on legal medicinal products. In particular, the jurisdiction of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb and the jurisdiction of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has been established. The future regulation requires that each Member State designates the competent authority to impose sanctions pursuant to Article. 18th Regulation, the draft law proposes the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb as a real and local court to impose sanctions. The Regulation also requires Member States to lay down rules on sanctions in order to ensure that accommodation service providers at the server effectively implement the Regulation. The draft law therefore prescribes criminal legal sanctions for infringements of certain articles referred to in Article. 18th Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed law prescribes a hodogram for the collection of the unification and transmission of that information to the Commission. By adopting this law in the Croatian legislative framework, we will implement the Anti-proliferation Regulation on the Internet and ensure quality mechanisms for removing risky posts with terrorist elements in the virtual world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117128	Secretary of State, you've got a few replicas. First of all, your colleague Dretar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117129	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Dear Mr. Martinovic, I must ask you a very simple question and ask you a verdict. When someone in public space, in this case of Internet space, says that a certain situation can be solved by using explosives, can you now assess whether it is a potential threat to calling for a terrorist act and whether it will be found under the impact of this law that we are going to bring here, when someone says it can solve explosives, just please here your personal if there is no burning and official attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117130	Dear Representative, it is therefore difficult in this situation to make a personal and even more difficult official position on such a single issue, but this law regulates such matter, so the Internet is one social value, one need for communication, and it is important for both natural and legal persons of the globe, so it is one of the civilizational achievements that we are all proud of and needed, but it provides opportunities for these channels, through these networks and things that are socially unacceptable, is one of these and terrorism. So these servers whose hardware is being stored and offering such content they have developed their elements to remove such things, so we all experience it on various networks when something is being removed or when one of our own is being removed, here is the further phase, so that the bodies in the Member States are doing so. We have appointed a MUP that has a specialized service in its composition that is able to identify terrorist content and give a warrant to remove them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117131	My colleague, Pocrnic Radošević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear State Secretary, for the purpose of implementing the regulation, Member States should appoint competent authorities, this proposal proposes to the MUP as a competent authority authorised to issue a warrant for the removal of terrorist content in all Member States. Also, when assessing whether some terrorist content or not has been granted to the ministry, it has given authority to request the opinion of the Council for Electronic Media, in terms of freedom of expression and information, to cooperate with HERA for network activities in terms of decision on exposure to terrorist content. So this is a multidisciplinary approach, and what do you think this will do in practice with the cooperation of different bodies on decision-making? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117133	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117134	Thank you, honourable MPs, so the regulation has left one freedom, so it is directly applicable to our legal order, but it has left the Member States one freedom to regulate those bodies that will act in certain situations. That is, with us, I have already said in the previous answer that this is with us MUP since they have a specialized service, so a training unit that deals with terrorism and which, of course, has tools and trained people to respond to these situations. So, that multidisciplinary that you're talking about really exists where the MUP doesn't have, there's not enough knowledge about some things like what goes into HACOM's jurisdiction, they're going to address them and other agencies, but one thing I have to tell you all, this is about very urgent procedures sometimes within an hour the MUP has to issue a warrant, in fact within an hour these have to remove the warrant, remove in fact content on the Internet or therefore prevent access to that content, so it's a quick procedure that, in order to be effective, it has to be that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117135	Thank you. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Martinovic, the IDS absolutely supports this fight and certainly goes in the right direction, but one thing here is just a little bit of a ruse in the issues that need to be regulated by law says that in order to reduce the availability of terrorist content on its servers, accommodation providers on the server that are exposed, etc. We should introduce specific measures, I'm just curious here whether or not we need to, we need a lot of things, and when we have to do something, that's enough and binding, so if you can explain it to me, and in the follow-up it also says that the accommodation service providers should determine which appropriate proportionate measure should be introduced, etc., it needs something, and yet it's binding, so just that, maybe I didn't get the right idea, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117137	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117138	So here the regulation defined as such the relevant concepts of this matter, so it defined terrorist content in such a way that it was used in a dictionary of the criminal law of the Member States where terrorism is defined. So here to talk about these special measures, first of all I've said a bunch of these things to servers who provide services to content manufacturers they themselves recognize and have their tools and remove. These extreme situations which, for various reasons, are not removed from their tools by process or service, are then done by special EU bodies, so when measures are issued, they are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States which the server is required to implement, if they do not implement, they come under the violation of the sanctions legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117139	He will now be replicated by his colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117140	Dear Secretary of State, there are cases where service providers on their own determine what is appropriate or inappropriate content and even putting it in the category of terrorist, which he is not. I have spoken in the Croatian Parliament many times about the late General Slobodan Praljak and it is interesting when he appears, for example. on any social network in the short run, all those who make any announcements about our general are being blocked, the contents are being removed as terrorist. So here we have one great danger that this law, or even the possibility of removing content, is misused, and this is an exact example. Please make sure that some service providers abuse their position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117141	Here's your call.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117142	Your Honor, I, as a lawyer, would say states and systems can't regulate everything. Here, the EU Member States, or the EU, did not use this regulation to regulate the procedures of the provider of the accommodation services of these internet content. They have certain freedoms and that freedom is necessary for today's development of civilization and democratic standards. But Member States have the right to protect themselves on one, with one common tool against terrorist content, and this Regulation does so. So, we appoint the competent authorities who will recognize terrorist content and, in their territory, issue a warrant to remove it. It may issue a cross-border order but shall then be considered and decided whether or not in one specific procedure by the competent authority of a Member State. So we can't stop someone from removing something from their hard drive that he finds unacceptable to his audience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117143	She will now be replicated by her colleague Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117144	Thank you. In the light of this law, it states that the service provider is voluntarily removing all the content that might be controversial, so you conclude from practice that there will be no greater number of procedures that would then additionally burden the work of our institutions and bodies, therefore the High Administration Court has been chosen. However, I do not understand why the Criminal Court was elected in Zagreb. Namely, I can accept the argument that there are expected to be a lot of cases. However, why is it that Zagreb, which is the most burdened on one side anyway, and on the other hand, when we are just as speculating how many items will be or won't be, I'm not worried about these real terrorist content, I'm worried about our reinterpretation because we saw in Croatia that eggs can also be the subject of terrorism. So, I'm afraid of the insecure removal of content. who does not respond and lack of control by [[Intruder: Thank you.]] by the authorities. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117145	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117146	Therefore, in case the competent authority makes mistakes in its assessment, the server shall have the right to appeal. And that's why these legal medicines were established in these situations. So they have legal tools, they have the right to appeal, so they have everything that all citizens of natural and legal persons, they're legal persons dealing with the business of providing services. And if it were easy for you to say in one part of your replica, it was easy to remove yourself from someone, so that someone could ask for responsibility for the damage to a server that was easy, and later it was found not to be so. Therefore, all colleagues are questioned to the top and therefore the competent courts and the misdemeanor and the High Administrative are established. So the High Administration because we have this on HACOM in a similar way, so it's not going into a classic administrative procedure, so the administrative dispute is directly decided by the High Administrative Court. Considering he's in charge of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117147	My colleague, Heidash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117148	... the launch, therefore, of the assessment of whether the material of the provider of the content of terrorist content, which includes the application of basic principles relating to freedom of expression and information including freedom and pluralism of the media in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the Regulation, is authorised to request the prior opinion of the Council for Electronic Media. [[Specially enabled.]] Give me an explanation that's authorized, is it mandatory, not mandatory, or is it just authorized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117149	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117150	Of course, there is always one when the administrative authority decides on a administrative procedure if there is no expertise in this specific authority, it also has the right to invite another national body from its domain to give him some professional observation. If there's a need for this, of course, they'll ask the agency, if they don't, there's no dilemma I don't know what you're dealing with. There's no... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117151	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117152	...human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117153	Now it's time for my colleague Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117154	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we are quite concerned about the implications that this might have on the subject of freedom of speech on the Internet and on social networks, especially with the fact that the MIP is the one that is doing the assessment, and we know in the past how certain violations that were definitely in the domain of freedom of speech, such as insults to politicians, as well as some harsher words that the MUP has often qualified as a violation, and in fact it was a matter of freedom of speech guaranteed and Article 10. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights. So I'm curious about what mechanisms you're going to have inside the MUP without these, implementation of this text becoming a serious restriction on freedom of speech on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117155	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117156	I am personally convinced that the creators of the regulation have thought about it. So, the regulation is directly applicable in our legal order, and we have been working here on a pragmatic implementing law for that regulation. We have resorted to the adoption of one legal document, and otherwise some Member States have changed 5, 6, 10 laws to cover this whole matter. So we haven't established anything by this law of ours, which could therefore be the reason for abuse. We have to trust the institutions, and if we won't trust them, please, please, okay, so this Law, but the Regulation also implies legal means to question such attitudes. Of course, at the very least, what I just said is responsibility for responsibility for the possible damage by removing something that has not finally been confirmed as terrorist content.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117157	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117158	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, if we go back a little bit to history, we see that the word terrorism, or terror, first appears and expression comes public during the French Civil Revolution when there was a mass execution of mostly ideological enemies and how technology is growing, clearly, the possibility and spread of the leprosy of terrorism itself, so that false information, incorrect information can certainly cause both apathy and fear, panic fear among certain people, individuals, as well, clearly. I am interested in the context of the implementation of the provision, not creating a new body within the Republic of Croatia, will there be opportunities in the existing body to monitor this, as I said, whole of a leprechaun, in my opinion terrorist outbursts and actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117159	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117160	Well, Your Honor, I personally believe that the Regulation was necessary, that it was affected, that this Law created procedural tools that institutions were activated, those that already existed and that this Regulation would be successfully implemented in our national legislation. I think we need to be convinced, and we all are, that terrorism is one dangerous thing that endangers individuals, people, systems, our lives, and that countries are looking for everything, looking for adequate tools in the fight against terrorism. This is one of the tools that may, in its essence, be preventive, so we prevent these content that encourages, which they organise, which train how to make terrorism, so I have no doubt that this is a good thing that has been introduced into the legal order of the Member States and that we will certainly succeed with this path in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117161	And the last line, colleague Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117162	Dear Secretary of State, when we talk about intercepting messages and developing these content for and planning terrorism, but also for recruiting new individuals, I wonder if we as a state have tools that allow the interception of such messages through individual toy consoles which, unfortunately, are increasingly an example, we know that terrorist attacks have been organised in both Boston and Paris, so do we have tools that can prevent such attacks on these online servers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117164	Your Honor, I cannot answer that question. I think my online knowledge and that knowledge is probably at your lower or lower level because you're a younger man than I am, but I know what I know, and I know that the MUP has therefore a founding unit that deals with so much with the detection and prevention of terrorism. I'm sure they also have adequate software tools to spot such things in time. Unfortunately, crime, terrorism very often goes ahead of our social activities, so sometimes we are late, but this law has not certainly solved it, if we don't already have, so we activate already the institutions that we have, therefore the MUP, courts and I am convinced that our Ministry of the Interior, our police have adequate tools, when I say adequate, then at the very least that they are qualified both software and personnel at the level of the EU average.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117165	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives Mosta, a respected colleague of Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117166	The Honorable President of HS Mr Jandrokovic, the Honorable Mr Bukarica, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-worker and co-worker. The Mosta Club is enough, they would say, worried enough about this Law for several reasons, because when a child gets burned once, then when it comes close to fire, experiencedly, it's experiencedly always afraid of fire and then it moves its hand and runs away from something that can harm a child. To be clear right now, we have a lot of those who are looking at us under the increase and we here at the Mosta Club so to be very clear and explicit, the Mosta Club condemns every form of aggression, violence, terrorism and normally that a serious democratic state must protect its borders, have strong police and strong Croatian military, must love and protect its officers, who care about national security, must have a strong army that cares about their country and ultimately, in stock to all those who have given their lives, here, is General Sacic here with us, I apologize if among the rulings there are Croatian defenders who are present here with us or from the opposition, I am not familiar with all of them, but then I apologize, but therefore those of our boys, these heroes have provided us with freedom and, of course, when there is a threat of freedom, from anywhere outside or inside that the state must have mechanisms, and that the state must react, that they must protect their sovereignty, and that their own national interests and that are clearly, to the extent of their citizens. So I really think he understands that. I am personally a Christian who respects democracy. So we live in pluralist democracy and I as a politician who is a Christian in pluralist democracy, so I fight for my beliefs, my views. And then the citizens go to the polls, you get out, and then in those elections, you end up getting legitimacy, or you don't get it, whatever it is. These elections are very important, democracy is very important, and so I recommend that anyone who thinks to get smart on the side come, get out, get into the lobby, get out, so if the citizens choose him, let him come to this honorable home and fight for his ideals, for his beliefs, as the representatives of the different stories here from left to right, the right center is whether, therefore, they did. What we're afraid of, come on, I'll be very explicit and clear. I'm not talking about more questionable people who have interpreted some things in one way or another, but let's talk about Croatian scientists, for example, about Prof. Dr.sc. Lauca or our distinguished expert mathematician Nenad Bakic. So they're state secretaries, so these people, they're processes on the Internet, so the ministry of truth called a factographer with a man who's probably going to be a real leftist by the age of 52. So, he's an editor, and we know he's a rat, that the doll at the end is in the hands of the powerful as it is. So this factographer or the Ministry of Truth censored our distinguished scientists who only had different thoughts that proved true today. So people were saying something three months ago, five months, a year, two years ago. When I speak specifically, then that lock down is dangerous and will bring severe consequences to them being censored. When Lauc spoke and wrote that people who got over did not need a vaccine they censored. So it's over, censorship. And now what we're afraid of, so at the MOST club, I mean fear, we're not really meant to be afraid of anything. If General Sacic had been afraid we wouldn't have Croatia today, if the boys hadn't gone out into the trenches and met the enemy of the Yugoslav People's Army and all those who might have been paying with it today, I mean, they're obviously crying. Thank God she's gone, these South, the dungeons of the people. So let's get back to the subject. Here we are concerned: In strong societies, in strong democracies we have, therefore, systems that watch for freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of thought, freedom of action. And now I'm going to be a little plastic, forgive me for being such an extrovert, so here's kind of what you're saying, what you get. Now the people are going crazy because the fuel will come to 70 kuna, and we'll see the meat coming, right? This morning I read 300 kunas for example, and at some point the people will be hungry, and they will realize that the ruling people do not want to make vegans out of it and not to worry about health, but simply all of it went under the clouds. And then somebody's gonna write a ma in the paramps and blow a bomb in there. And then someone's gonna be at the expense of it because the poor man's frustrated over there is doing something that we don't need to understand. So I'm very clear, I think. But then someone will say, uh, here it is, terrorism. And they'll close the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because someone might express themselves in an inappropriate way, so it's important that you make sure that the procedures are simple to assess whether people are poor, frustrated, so they're broken, and you know it. Services can get into anything, messages, cell phones, anything alive. In the end, that's what you do and then you know that someone's poor, that's just a frustrated citizen because we eat with 15 thousand kunas for 15, 20 kunas even though the quality of the student menu was better. Let's be honest if it is, and then the poor people come and say, man, so we've got nothing to eat. So the cheese went to us for 93 kunas, and the oil went away, and the flour and everything. This morning I read the prices from the Croatian malls. And that's what we're worried about, so to do everything you can systems, processes preserve the basics of our democracy, and that's the right to a different opinion, the right to a different speech, to express and even to allow because it's the fundamental right for our people to go crazy a little bit, so maybe to come to the squares, to yell, to make noises, to blow out, to wave flags. I mean when the fuel comes to 400 kuna and meat at 300 because by then we Croats will be heroes of the living room. So, the MOST Club will think about what they're going to do with supporting this law. On the one hand, I will repeat, so absolutely for the protection of the Croatian border, for a strong Croatian army, for strong and strong Croatian police, for the protection of national interests, for the protection of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to be safe and to prevent the state from any form of domestic and external terrorism, and we will immediately sign it. What we're concerned about is that these evaluations made by the MUP to make these assessments consistent, to be reasonable, and that these appraisals don't get put into a situation I don't know that people who are going to be arrested for this reason or that reason are going to be frustrated, so they're going to write on the Internet, and then they're going to be censored, arrested, etc. This may sound like a conspiracy theory to some, but there's a lot of you here. There's more of you. Forgive my colleagues for this doctoring. Five years ago, if someone had said what we were going to do, here's my General Sacic, that someone asked five years ago what we were going to do and how that I can't go from Kastav to Matula 300 meters away because the police are in the middle of it, and they won't let me get into Plodine, 300 meters away, but I can't go to Castav in the center, and I can't go to Matulje. If someone had said that, a man would have said that even if you were crazy to her, you conspiracy theorists. And then came the time when we were deprived of our freedom and fundamental civil rights. We at the Bridge Club will be awake and scream from the roofs if you have to and be with your people wherever you need to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117167	Now, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, a respected colleague, Milanovic Litre, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. National security and desire for stronger more concrete sovereignty in the Republic of Croatia all obliges us to protect the Croatian people from terrorism as one of the fundamental assumptions of prosperity. This Regulation introduces mechanisms that are useful in preventing radicalisation, but also brings great responsibility to those who implement it. This is exactly what Croatian sovereigns see the biggest problem in implementing this regulation because knowing the work of our government and state services and the ease in which cases in Croatia categorized terrorism is difficult to be optimistic about. It is enough to remember a closed meeting of the Assembly Security Committee due to the simplest comment of a pensioner about the welcome of Andrej Plenkovic with rotten eggs. However, in any case, this Regulation should ensure that what is illegally off the line or off the grid is illegal and that the line, i.e. on the net. The removal order will be able to send any Member State to any internet platform established within the EU, however, according to the ICR compromise reached by the group to which we belong, the authorities of the Member States in which the content source is located will have 72 hours to analyse and possibly challenge the withdrawal order if they see, for example, a clear violation of freedom of expression. This Regulation should ensure that internet platforms play a more active role in the detection of terrorist content on their networks and that such content is removed within a maximum of one hour. During the pandemic, the rise in terrorist content on social networks has grown significantly. If we take for example only Facebook 2019. more than 25 million posts were removed because they contained the contents of a terrorist nature or encouraged attacks, and the following year 2020 that figure increased to more than 43 million posts. More than 300 thousand accounts related to terrorist organisations used to spread propaganda were deleted while 2016. There were three times less than 100,000. The trend of growth is obvious and proves that in today's society a major role in spreading radical messages from terrorist organisations has Internet or social networks. What's good about this Regulation is that there will be no Internet filtering, at least that's how it is presented. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press and the media as well as freedom of legal content, for example. the research of journalists, artists, educational content must also not be filtered, and moreover this Regulation should protect the content that represents the expression of controversy or controversial views during public debate. So-called The information revolution with the unexpected rise of the Internet in the 1990s obviously had. Apparently, it has a growing social significance. Internet terrorists and extremists offer the same opportunity and ability that makes for the rest of society to communicate, cooperate and convince. Such significant amounts of radical material are now available online, and this amount is growing daily. Analysis of interview documents with senior investigative officers across Europe confirms the significant role of the Internet in almost every national security investigation conducted by European security and intelligence agencies as well as the police. Cases of terrorism in the countries of Europe that do not have the so-called Digital footprints fall under a statistical error. The Internet has indeed played a role in the process of radicalising violent extremists and terrorists. Research supports the conclusion that the Internet can increase the ability to radicalise because it is available to a large number of people and enables links to those from around the world 24 hours a day. In the analysis of terrorist attacks, a clear link between individuals and the Internet, or social networks, was a key source of communication and propaganda information for their extremist beliefs. Empirical study of the Department of War Studies of Kings College in London published in 2008. of 242 European jihadists participating in actions since 2001-2006 She found that there was a correlation between jihad websites and propaganda on the Internet and radicalisation. The barriers to individual integration have been reduced by the reach and directness of the Internet, and a number of studies indicate the ability of the Internet to reach those individuals who would otherwise not be available to radicalisers in any other way. We have an example of the success of Anwar an Awlakia spokeswoman and recruiter Al Qaeda in creating high-quality content such as an inspier Al Qaeda web magazine that advocates jihad from home and which is quite widespread in the west, which is evidence of the spread of the attraction of violent extremism via the Internet. The Internet has become a single echo, a kind of mirror for the extremist beliefs of individuals. In other words, the Internet can provide a greater opportunity than online interactions to confirm or radicalise its existing beliefs especially at times when we are witnessing manipulation of social network algorithms that serve exactly the part of the content that we find most interesting and thus limit us to objective information. The consensus in literature is that the Internet allows individuals easier access to material that they are interested in what is more difficult to do in a physical world where we find individuals with different opinions and access to material that would expose individuals to different views. The imposed algorithms of social networks can give an illusion of strength in numbers because an individual becomes a prisoner of a narrow circle of online thinkers, profiles and pages, terrorists thus exploit algorithms that were actually the primary goal of marketing action for the sale of radical sick ideas. Furthermore, evidence does not support the claim that the Internet replaces the need for individuals to meet during the radicalisation process, instead evidence suggests that the Internet is not a substitute for personal meetings but complements and facilitates personal communication. Evidence and research and analysis also confirm or do not support the suggestion that the Internet has contributed only to the development of radicalisation, in most cases subjects have had contact with other persons, virtually or physically. We cannot and must not characterise the Internet as the main culprit of radicalization, but we must be aware that thanks to hysterical local lockdown Internet terrorism and radicalisation have flourished. In the last 2 years. In Europe, radical Islamists have committed nearly 20 terrorist attacks, the perpetrators of which are in their 20s, the youngest perpetrator is 18 and the oldest 37. Each of them was, in one way or another, active online within the echo sphere of radicals, and it should not be ignored that almost every one of these evildoers is also a refugee with a war on affected areas for which the progressives on the left hand side of the assembly would do their utmost to become part of our society, and thus part of Croatian culture and identity. Islamic terrorists remain active in Europe and in our neighbourhood, ISIS cells and organisations linked to al-Qaeda, their propaganda spreads to the internet. Given the desire to create a secure environment, we welcome this regulation, but I stress once again as its own, that its implementation must be correct and transparent in order to function. The Internet should be one of the symbols of freedom in today's society, but we must not allow it to become an instrument for terrorists and radicals to promote its sick ideas and ideology. It is enough to remember our Tomislav Salopek, who is cowardly executed by Libyan jihadists who have used him without shame to promote their ideas, and it is worth mentioning that these same Libyan jihadists have decapitated 21 kotish Christians who are today a symbol of the martyrdom and persecution of Christians around the world. Because of such a regulation, this regulation is made and I hope that it will be applied to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117169	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored colleague Hajdas Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117170	The respected colleagues and colleagues, as the development of information and technology is increasingly available to each other, are always asking themselves a few questions about how good it is and how bad it is, so none of the other things can be excluded and seen black and white, so of course it's good because most of the world's population can now come to publicly available data, life is probably easier, but on the other hand it's also large, and I'm going to say scientific challenges because you always have one part of the world's population when you ask them where you're from, we've read it on the Internet, ma bravo, congratulations, so how much it's really scientificly justified and therefore it's all different theories and conspiracies and different data that fluctuate on social networks that are absolutely not true, so you have a large number of people who think that the country is flat, and so on that it's all there, and this is just one degree that there's actually one degree that the scale of terrorism in the internet that is actually going to the other way. So this regulation, which becomes the law, is called the competent authorities which are entrusted with the performance of the functions which are therefore foreseen in 2021. Legal medicines are also defined, which are therefore the Croatian word of accommodation is on the server, so they can file against the order and decision of the competent authorities, then deadlines for the submission of legal medicines and competent authorities which decide on the same legal medicines, and which are infringements of the provisions. Therefore, the bill promoter entrusted the law under quotes with who would enforce the law, so above all, the MUP. the establishment unit responsible for the prevention and control of terrorism where, in fact, within that unit, contact should be a point available 24 hours a day for 7 days a week, it is also the competent authority for issuing a warrant requiring the provider of accommodation services on the server to remove terrorist content or to prevent access to terrorist content in all Member States on the basis of this so-called original Regulation. No. 3. and which is the competent authority for verifying cross-border tasks and which is responsible for removing them on the basis of Article 3. 4 of the Regulation in question. In our case and where the competent authority for the issuing of the order for removal and the competent authority for the verification of cross-border removal orders is therefore competent to request the prior opinion of the Council for Electronic Media, it shall only be authorised, therefore, to request the prior opinion of the Council for Electronic Media, the Council for Electronic Media shall be obliged to deliver its opinion within 48 hours of the time of receipt of the request. So I've tried here in the replica to trouble you, so that word is authorized. Whether it's authorized or mandatory and what's the difference and what's better is it's not better. Therefore, the Ministry shall use an opinion if it so requests, so to assess whether the material of the provider of the content is terrorist content as well as when it checks cross-border orders which may therefore come from other Member States, which shall include the application of the basic principles relating to freedom of expression of information. So, which includes what is very important freedom and pluralism of the media. In the law, part of these obligations or tasks are entrusted to the Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, it should be the competent authority to decide on the exposure of the terrorist content of the service provider located on the server and to monitor the implementation of the specific measures referred to in the article of the said Regulation. In this case, in order to make a decision on the exposure to the terrorist content of the service provider on the server, the MAP is obliged to provide to the Croatian Network Activity Regulatory Agency the information prescribed by the said Regulation in its Article 5(4), e.g. data that the service provider has received two or more final removal orders in the previous 12 months, i.e. in the previous year. Furthermore, the municipal civil court in Zagreb has been established as a real and local competent authority for the imposition of sanctions prescribed by this law in the event of a breach once again prescribed by this law but is also the competent authority for the decision on the application as the right of the medicinal product allowing the provider of the service located on the server and the content provider to submit it against the orders and decisions of the competent authorities under the basis of the provision 3 and 4 therefore of the said Regulation. The municipal civil court in Zagreb therefore decides according to the provisions of the law governing the misdemeanour procedure and after that, it makes a decision. What is good is that a second-degree decision is also envisaged and the appeal against the resolution of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb can be filed by the authorised person within 8 days of the date of delivery of the solution to the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia. So, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, we warmly welcome second-degree judicial protection, and we also welcome the urgency in handling the objection. That part of the powers or tasks entrusted to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a decision-making body on the basis of the service provider’s claim and further defined by the monitoring bodies for the implementation of the Regulation. Therefore, these are providers of a variety of different services on the server, MUP, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Municipal Infringement Court in Zagreb, the High Administrative Court in Zagreb, so they should all gather the information set out in Article 21(1) of this Regulation, and this should be as important as possible, the number of orders issued to remove and the number of units of terrorist content that have been removed and access to which it has been disabled. Therefore, not only have they been removed but which have been disabled and the speed of removal or disabling itself, how many proceedings have been initiated to file complaints and various actions, and which the provision of accommodation services on the server has therefore taken, in particular, those actions under Article 6 of the said Regulation. The SDP Club will probably submit one amendment, but in principle we support these organisational assumptions because, first of all, if we really are going to unpack the law, it is exclusively about the organisational law for effective remarks, the application of a 2021 pardon regulation. This is Regulation 784 on the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117171	The House Movement MPs' club will speak as a third club and a respected colleague, Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117172	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, what is important to say at the outset, to determine exactly what is terrorist content is a very sensitive topic. It combines many issues, scientific issues, theoretical issues, ethical issues, so it's very difficult. What is certainly in and in which way this debate should take place is a good will. Benevolently reviewing this law and saying it doesn't stand behind all the conspiracy theories. Of course, in the beginning, it should be fenced against the attack on this law, arguing that it could be an attempt to curb freedom of speech, media freedom, I consider personally, and also the House of National Movement advocates' club that this law is directed in the right direction. We'll consider, of course, after we've submitted some of the amendments that I'm going to present to you here today, how we're going to set ourselves up for him. There's still time. But I will again and forever and constantly ask the promoters why emergency procedures in the Croatian Parliament. So, I don't see any reason why we don't discuss this in two readings, but okay when we're here and when we talk about regulation 2021 784, it's important that we, of course, highlight some important things out of it. What we sometimes have a little trouble with as representatives is that the legal proposals only state the regulation, the provision, or whatever it is. We know that by law all parts are not to be copied into Croatian laws, but sometimes people may need to be explained a little. Let's say in the regulation when we're talking about various materials that can appear to make it the easiest way to say it on the Internet is an interesting claim. Let me quote, materials that are spread to the public in educational, journalistic, artistic or research purposes or for the purpose of preventing or suppressing terrorism, including material that represents the expression of controversial or controversial views in the context of public debate, is not considered terrorist content. That, you see for yourself, is an extremely broad interpretation within, we can freely say, within that interpretation we can almost find every debate, every attitude, whether it's liberal, conservative, constructive or whatever, very broad provision. What is the real purpose of spreading a certain message? Of course, there are those that are very precise and we are immediately at the beginning convinced that it is an incentive or determination of terrorism, and for some it cannot tell. So here we're going to expand this debate a little bit in a few minutes with a precise explanation of the regulation itself, because we say in the legal text we don't copy, but here we are. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 3 The Regulation defines acts of terrorism such as attacks on the life of persons who may cause death, attacks on the physical integrity of a person, kidnapping or taking hostages, the application of major destruction to the Government or public object, the transport system and the infrastructure facility, including the information system, etc., the illegal confiscation of aircraft, ships or other means of public and freight transport, production, possession, acquisition, transport and use of explosives or weapons, the release of dangerous substances or the cause of fire, interference or interruption of water supply, electricity or any other basic natural resource, and the illegal obstruction of the system or the threat of initiation of any of any of the acts referred to in points I have just read from the Regulation. So now we're going to ask one thing here, at least it seems to me, a very legitimate question that has no purpose of any attack on the freedom of any expression, but simply asks a question. The other day we saw in a very popular Croatian bay protest against illegal construction. Of course, the illegal construction, so in this bay, and in all coves, plains, shelters or banks of the entire Croatia we strongly condemn and do not allow, but we saw there the performance of the award-winning Croatian writer, who said, all of this would be solved by an explosive. Now, I ask you to rewind a little film two minutes back and remember what I just read to you. A threat to the start of any of the acts referred to in points. Is that terrorism? Is that an incentive to terrorism, is that a threat to the population? Of course, the mention of the award-winning writer is a very intelligent person and he said it very nicely, and I have to congratulate him personally, he said it great. I almost don't have any holes in it, and now, if they're going to react to this, I haven't left him much space for a reckoning either, but when someone says on social networks, that bald Dretar needs to be killed, it's no doubt an invitation to a criminal store, and that's undoubtedly terrorism, when someone says, this is solved by one explosive, I think it's a perfectly equal sentence, an entirely equal sense, an entirely equal danger. And that's where I'm going to end up, simply, there's no need to spread. I hope this law, once it's passed, will help you make sure we bring it. But I remind you once again of the extraordinary lack of education of the competent staff. Who will assess it in what way, whether terrorism is something or not. Who are these people sitting in the Council of Electronic Media at the Ministry of the Interior? Let me point to their average or below average education and guidance in how it works, and that social network theories, whether they're social or psychological, I'm not talking at all. Do these people know there's something called a darknet? Do they know that there are networks where murder can be ordered without a problem, on which kidnappings can be ordered, on which narcotics are distributed without a single problem. With this law, we looked only at the top of the bar. Up there growing shovels and a few frogs. The Internet is something much deeper, the Internet is something much, much more influential, on a global society than it is in these legal proposals. As for the amendments themselves, I will finish, we will ask for amendments to the article. 4 and 5 determining that the Council for Electronic Media has an obligation or is obliged to deliver its opinion to the Ministry of Interior within 48 hours of the time of receipt of the request. We'll ask the amendments to cut it to 24 hours, which may even be too little. It should cut it down a little bit. It's too much. Of course, it is necessary to react extremely quickly and the content of such a species poses a serious threat, attracts, of course, a large number of visitors and that is a danger. The Council’s reaction, after having been requested from it, on the possible terrorist characteristics of the content, must be of course, as soon as possible, within the shortest time limit, it is necessary to carry out an assessment, return it to the competent authority, and we consider that a 24-hour period would be sufficient to carry out such an assessment and, of course, to return the information to the competent authority which requested the assessment, which will then respond to the provisions of this Act. We'll wait for the vote. We'll make a decision. Again, I'm saying, the House of Homeland Attorneys Club condemns every form of terrorism and so does this one on social networks. It's hard to assess, it's hard to assess, it's hard to make a decision. Here we mentioned a very interesting story about what would happen in case certain contents were removed, and later we came to realize that it was not something that could come under the influence of the provisions of this Law. We will see, we will allow time to decide and we, as a club of representatives, will, of course, monitor how this Law will be implemented in Croatian society, in the Croatian public and of course in Croatian social networks. I say again, let's be in good faith and let's say, there's no conspiracy theory here, this is a good attempt to sort things out, but let's stress the fact that who's educated enough who's professional enough to assess what terrorism is and what isn't. Either way, we're representatives of the right political option, but be sure as much as we're free and free thinking, we don't want to solve anything with explosives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117173	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Brcic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ms. Simundja Nikolic. I'll let you know right away that the HDZ Club will support this bill. We are firmly convinced that this directive in its sympathies that one quality upgrade to investment in security, in the fight against terrorism, I would say the troubles of the 21st century, and we know where terrorism is that uncertainty, and contrary to uncertainty, is the safety that is the prerequisite of each other's development contitiated by son qua non, so if there is no security in a particular area in a particular country there is no prosperity in any area, we do not need to talk too much about how much in the context of security we also see our tourism here in these circumstances one of the strongest economic branches. And that's why as I said we welcome this regulation and it's kind of one coordination with all those activities that actually take many years to seem at local, regional and state level. I think when we talk about this topic that it is necessary to mention our education system along with all of these stakeholders who are involved in the empathy and action in the practice of the directive itself, the educational system is the one that has the leverage to primarily teach our young people that the quality of this tool Internet uses to not go into one so that some people can go, other types of radicalism ideologicality of creation towards modern technology and so on to the Internet. I would compare it to one plastic example of the Internet is good if a man uses it for good intentions, he is today a prerequisite for digital transformation is a prerequisite for all the development of society, economic, cultural, social, as we can say knife, he can be one noble means if we cut off a piece of bread and feed the hungry, but also with that same tool we can do evil to another man. A fundamental intention, as pointed out on several occasions here by the State Secretary of the Regulation, is to combat the spread of terrorist content on the Internet and ensure the smooth functioning of the Digital Single Market. Preventing terrorist content on the Internet requires a combination of legislative and non-legislative and voluntary measures based on cooperation between the competent authorities and the provision of accommodation services on the server with respect to fundamental rights, which my colleagues have previously pointed out, means we are always using mechanisms of use and rights of those who, possibly with action in this context, feel threatened. Service providers active on the Internet play a key role in the digital economy by connecting businesses and citizens and facilitating public debate and spreading information on opinions and ideas. However, the role of the accommodation provider on the server is sometimes misused, that is what everyone here is talking about about third parties and we are particularly focused on preventing the meaning of this type of action. Since the Regulation applies from 7 June 2022 directly in all EU Member States and also in the Republic of Croatia, legal assumptions should be created to adapt to the national legal order as well as to the requirements of the Regulation. The entry into force of the Regulation gives rise to a direct commitment to actions taken by the service provider and the competent authorities in order to combat the terrorist spread of content on the Internet. Regulation, procedures and obligations stemming from a removal order requiring the service provider to remove or disable access to terrorist content after an assessment. For the purpose of implementing the regulation, Member States shall designate competent authorities, not necessarily establishing a new body, which we have also highlighted here, as it is possible to entrust the existing body with the performance of the functions provided for in the Regulation. Member States shall also ensure that their competent authorities have the necessary powers and sufficient means to achieve the intention of the Regulation. The proposed law also provides that any natural or legal person has the right to an effective remedy before a competent national court against any measure taken in the context of the regulation. This proposed concept should not lead to a significant increase in court cases since no significant inflow of these cases is expected. I hope that's how it's gonna be in reality. Each Member State shall also designate the competent authority responsible for imposing sanctions as well as the obligation to adopt sanctions rules. Sanctions may be of administrative or criminal nature. In particular, strict sanctions are directed at cases where a particular service provider systematically and persistently does not remove terrorist content. The implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, as the funds are provided in the framework of the regular action of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The draft law was published between 31 May 2022 and 15 June 2022. And as I said at the very beginning, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal that will certainly give a significant amount of security both to the institutions and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially having in the context of the time in which we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117175	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the honourable representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117176	I thank the chairman. This regulation was voted in 2021 and we had until 7 June to pass this law that we are discussing today. However, the law was only this Friday, so it passed the parliamentary procedure and immediately entered into an emergency procedure because this was delayed. The Green-Left bloc club always stresses that when it comes to issues of a legitimate objective or legitimate interest such as the fight against terrorism, it would be good for such rules not to go into emergency procedures. In order to consider all the fuses that need to be put into some regulation, this balance between the protection of a public interest and the protection of human rights would actually work. In general, we believe that these laws are sensitive, that they are governed by a gray zone between freedom of speech and terrorism, and that these are laws that can endanger human rights just under the cover of the fight against terrorism. And that wouldn't be the first time. So, we know that under the actual scope of the fight against terrorism, very often there has been a restriction of various civil freedoms not only on freedom of speech, but also on freedom of public gathering, etc. Now I'm not talking about Croatia, I'm talking about one of those global phenomena that we actually have back there from American twins on. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights on this matter is quite clear. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which regulates the right to freedom of expression, is actually regulated by the rights related to freedom of expression on the Internet. And the issue of restrictions on freedom of expression on the Internet is indeed well already justified and explained in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The assessment and margin of the assessment of each country given by the European Court in these decisions is precisely in the fight against terrorism, perhaps more than usual. However, the court has always made it clear that especially when it comes to political speech, when it comes to political criticism, when it comes to political insult or attack, and even sometimes to the threat of being very careful whether it is a domain of freedom of speech, because politicians must have as the court says secret skin, or indeed a thicker skin, or indeed a serious threat. And of course it's not easy and of course it's from case to case, based on case to case assessment. And that's exactly what our biggest problem is, so with this regulation, which is that this assessment, and that's a very difficult assessment between whether it's freedom of speech or whether it's a more serious threat that may fall within the domain of terrorism, is brought only by the Ministry of the Interior that it can, but it doesn't have to consult the Council for Electronic Media, I don't know what exactly you've found but well. I would, for example, suggest that some other institution be put in place, such as the institution of the occupier, which is a constitutional category, etc. But good, the Council for Electronic Media. However, our amendment will just go in that direction that this consultation with the VEM must exist, not that it can exist. Yeah? In fact, what I'm afraid of is that we're going to have cases like we've had in the past, actually with various violations that have been determined and where the MUP actually started proceedings before the court for cases that are actually an eclectic example of freedom of speech. Insults on the internet to certain politicians highly positioned, including threats sometimes. I mean, people write things on these social networks. Oh, no? I mean, we all get into the inbox and the public and the threats and this and that. But I think it's mostly a political grudge or some harsh political speech, not a real threat. So, not to say how far away it is from a threat, to being considered terrorism. Most of the time, it seems to me that it is extremely important that we put these fuses here, so that we do not actually have a flood of lawsuits over the violation of freedom of speech on the Internet, which may well be lost at the European Court of Human Rights, and these cases of losing cases at the European Court of Human Rights in the legs, unfortunately, we have a lot. So what concerns us, and at EU level, in this regulation, is that, it has left an awful lot of space for the members to self-organize the way this regulation is implemented, and the fact that within the EU there are some countries that currently exist, I don't speak forever or always, but they currently have a serious demographic deficit, and here I imagine that Orban in Hungary is implementing this regulation and that all uses it, which, of course, doesn't say anything about what could happen here, but the fact is that we have member states with a serious democratic deficit. So, all of the procedures take place in accordance with this regulation within extremely short deadlines, it's 48 to 72 hours, so that's a good thing and some procedure, let's say for questions, questions... or hate speech, it is also very short deadlines when the content is moving, but really very often this leads to a violation of certain rights and subsequent restitution of something is not really a restitution of damage because if you publish it or publish it within a month or when it has already decided that it was not such content it was no longer out of context and perhaps it was really a significant, significant damage, especially when it comes to political views. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Regulation also provides for regular reporting by the competent authorities implementing this law on the transparency of their work and ordering the production of annual reports. We would like these reports to be discussed in HS which is not currently foreseen and in this sense we will also give an amendment to this law for the reasons why it can really be done about the systematic practice of breaching freedom of speech and expression on the Internet, and we believe that it is in the domain of HS to monitor how laws are implemented and whether they are also implemented in accordance with all those values and constitutions and the end-of-the-end objectives that we have entered into that law. Given the sensitivity of this matter, I think it would be good for these reports to go to this one, and to this assembly. So these are some of our particular concerns and suggestions that we will express in the amendments, and here's just one more message, so regardless of the delay of the late and the other country, I was just looking at how many countries were implemented, a lot of countries are late to implement this, and they haven't yet identified the contact bodies, etc. Now, when it comes to these issues, sensitive questions, let's not go into emergency procedures. We wanted to object on Friday, but you know why we can't make a complaint, because we're getting a late agenda. When we get the agenda, and when we look at what it's about, so what's the content of that regulation that goes into the emergency procedure we're already late with the appeal for emergency procedure, written because it has to be written, and everyone here knows that literally the agenda for next week is getting very late, and that also including any new points is getting literal, here we now get an hour and a half or two before it's been voted on, so the procedure that's going to lead us here is that we can't really respond adequately to what's being put into the emergency procedure, and I'd be asking the motionor himself to keep in mind that the laws he's proposing are in the domain of human rights and constitutional rights, so she'd be begging that they don't go into an emergency procedure anymore when it't really absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117177	In the name of the Social Democrats Club, the honourable representative Željko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117178	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I think that everyone here and those who have been in any kind of contact with this topic are having a heart-to-heart fight against terrorism and will immediately sign that we should do everything possible to fight this attack. Let us not forget that in order to fight terrorism, legislation is not enough, it is not only enough legislation, there must be some non-legislative measures, there must be voluntary measures, there must be applications of our fellow citizens, there must be reports of our citizens and other entities who are on the Internet and who see that some content has appeared. This winter I had a chance to talk to a Dutchman who has been in Croatia for 15 years and who said he was coming to Croatia for a few reasons, one reason why people are good and friendly, the other is that the country is clean and neat, which restaurants are decent and cultural, the offer is good and what was most important to him and his children that the country is safe, safe and I think we should insist on these efforts to keep the country safe for us and for all those who come to our country, without it we will not be able to live peacefully, nor those who come to us. He told me, however, that he would not come to Croatia this year because he was too expensive last year, and if he comes this year, then I don't think he'll come anywhere near Croatia anymore, given that prices went up badly, and now it's not a topic. I'd just like to point out what the situation is on the Internet right now, if you put it in the search engine, if you sign up for "a fight against terrorism" you'll get less than 200 thousand contents that write about fighting terrorism. However, if you write down the concept of terrorism, you will get over a million and two hundred thousand addresses where you can find something about terrorism, where there's something about terrorism, of course it's not an invitation to terrorism, but it's something that explains what's going on, etc., so there's a lot of what's going on in the world, and I think it's already one indicator that tells us which way we should go. Of course, when we talk about terrorism, then we should talk about Nazism, we should talk about jihad. If you write in a nazim search, you will get about 200,000 addresses, and if you type jihad somewhere around 263,000 addresses. Let us also not forget that our well-known friends, neighbors, are working in a special unit of the MUP dealing with the fight against terrorism, or they are responsible for the prevention and control of terrorism. These are the people who watch over us daily, and I think we need to help them in their work to be safe and to keep Croatia safe. What has certainly been proven both scientifically and through various research is that terrorist content encourages the radicalism of individuals. When you look at what you can find on the Internet, what you can find on groups of different kinds, what you can find on various forums, what you can find on various Facebooks, Twitters, means on social networks, I think we'd all be amazed at what's written and how it's actually indoctrinating especially younger generations. And there is danger, there is the greatest danger because young people are vulnerable to such content especially when their parents are in trouble, when they are alone, when they have problems in the social community, they are very vulnerable to reacting positively to what it says on such pages, and it is therefore very important to warn them in time about such content on social networks because they spread very quickly. Of course, such content that encourages radicalism and individuals then has negative effects on other citizens. They may have consequences for the users of these portals themselves who use them or individual addresses on social networks, but they can also have negative content for service providers, Internet services such as those provided by Croatia can have a negative impact on them. What we should consider is whether the Law on Electronic Communications should be changed among other things. We had too little, at least I had too little time to study everything, all the addictions that are now based on this law, or all the dependent laws, but it is certainly one of those laws and the Law on Electronic Media because it states, among other things, that the decision of the Croatian Regulatory Agency cannot be filed against the decision of the Croatian Regulatory Agency. That actually means that in case someone believes that HERE's decision is not good or disagrees with it, he must initiate proceedings before the High Court of Justice. It would be good, given that we will now have more and more applications, and I think that it will react differently and the MUP and this structural unit that is already fighting terrorism, and also the Media Council, given that if something happens and the MUP asks for the opinion of the Council for Electronic Media is required by law to present a response within 48 hours, and as my friend from the bench to me, Mr Dretar, there is a time of 48 hours, and we think that it might be better to cut that time and reduce it to what might happen if it doesn't react in time, and it should also be considered in this law that this time responds to the Council for Electronic Media may be 24 hours. And to see if we will change this Law on Electronic Communications, but it is for the legislator, for Mr Martinovic and his associate to consider it all a little bit and see if it would be opportunised or perhaps not necessary. Although in law, I think one place in the law's explanation says it won't increase the number of these, the number of cases before the High Court of Justice. This is a question because, and slightly different, relations are changed in terms of decisions to be made and given the key words that are likely to be used, because one part of the application will go on automatic basis, based on automatic applications that will be made by various services if some words or a combination of words appear in certain texts or portals. What is extremely important for us and what we need to know and accept is that we are here not only defending our country but also defending other EU members, defending Europe and of course that the reactions of the EU countries are speeding up and reacting in our country and that they will actually speed up and react to the service provider so that we think it would be good to get it started as soon as possible and to connect it as soon as possible, given that we know how much we know there is a link between this unit, the building units in the MUP and the other units and that they are contacting each other and consulting each other, but perhaps to create a unique system that could make a quick and adequate alarm. The same part about reporting is that we agree that this should go to the Assembly and that these reports that will be sent to Europe are considered and held at the meeting, given that there will probably be a lot of this, a lot of this and a lot of disagreements about what was good, which was not good, which should have not been abolished. So it might be good to define in what period or time period these reports should go to the debate and, of course, to see how they will then be sanctioned by those who have made decisions and about shutting down websites or places that should have actually remained undisputed or should have continued to work because it was not really terrorist content, but perhaps it was some intentional violation of human rights or freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117179	We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117180	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. It should be reiterated that the regulation was voted in the European Parliament on 29 April 2021 and the Republic of Croatia had until 7 June 2022 to pass this law that we are discussing today, and the law entered the parliamentary procedure only last Friday, of course in an emergency procedure because we are now late in implementation. And it's not the first time the government's delay in laws goes into emergency procedures and so important and sensitive laws like this. It is a law that regulates a grey zone between freedom of speech and terrorism, which can endanger human rights under the cover of fighting terrorism, and yet they deserve a more quality debate in two readings. And yet the form is satisfied without the need to conduct a real debate in the assembly, and I say it is not the first time, we all witness it here, too often and thus bring the parliament to a mere vote of the necessary laws, as Krleža calls it exactly their compact majority, and the real purpose and task of the assembly is lost, and this is a quality and reasoned debate that will bring out the best solutions for Croatian citizens. A number of reservations have already been highlighted in the debate under the very European directive which overprinciples this matter and leaves space for members in which there is an obvious democratic deficit to abuse the regulation. The question has already been asked legitimately, how will it be, for example, Hungary implements this directive? But let's go back to Croatia. We all remember very well the detention and detention of 72-year-old Croatian citizen because he wrote on Facebook that Prime Minister Plenkovic in Zadar welcomed the rotten eggs. The prime minister then claimed that it had nothing to do with this detention, but it only shows how willing the services are to protect the prime minister from such threats and what they might be willing to do under such a law, and the law, as we have already established, does not have enough mechanisms to protect human rights and protect freedom of speech guaranteed by the constitution. The fight against terrorism explains the occupation of Mark’s square, which is dangerous to the fences that tell the truth by anyone who would not let God really intend to carry out an attack, and the fences would break in a few seconds, and these fences give a poor picture to a growing number of tourists who are visiting Zagreb today, and of course one of the most visited places is the historic Mark’s square and are wondering what it is about. It is not clear to them either, nor to us how these fences will indeed protect senior government officials and the prime minister himself. For more than a year and a half, residents of the Upper Town have to go to Mark’s square, which extends their journey and makes it difficult for them to rise. It should also be pointed out that the majority of the population of the Upper Town is older and that it has not been easy for them for a year and a half to go around Mark's square, not to talk about people with disabilities that sometimes cops release across Mark's square, and which times they do not, depends on their goodwill. They wrote to citizens and prime minister and police ministers several times without echoes, collecting 620 signatures from citizens and citizens of the Upper City on a petition sent to 14 relevant addresses without real echoes. That is why we call again on the speaker of the assembly to advocate that part of Mark's square around the assembly be opened to the public. And if the government and the prime minister think they need more protection, let them fence the approach to the government building. Thus, an example of the problem of fences in Mark's square clearly shows how far the fight against terrorism that then terrorises the local population can also not be sufficiently precise and well thought out by the EU directive, and consequently this law, which stems from that directive, can be misused in such an atmosphere at the expense of rights, freedom of speech and fundamental human rights. The implementation of this law remains an important duty to the MUP and secret services to ensure that the provisions of this law are not misused in any way, but the Civil Service Council of 89 submissions did not find any violation of the rights of citizens while the annual reports of the MUP are delayed in the assembly by one year, we must acknowledge that there is a legitimate concern about the possibility. The abuse of this law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117181	We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of the Daus first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. We are fighting for human rights, freedoms, and on the other hand we are fighting both terrorism and the spread of terrorist content and the Internet, so I'm interested in how you achieve balance, one balance between human rights and freedom and the fight against the spread of such content of terrorism on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117183	Honorable representative Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117184	Thank you. I thank my colleague for asking. Yes, that's what this is really about, these laws that are not sufficiently accurately entering matter so sensitive and important, of course, very important in today's environment, not only the threat of terrorism but the whole situation with this bloody war in Ukraine, and I personally think that this directive, and consequently this law certainly does not contribute to it, there are absolute and mechanisms and ways in which this fine balance between the protection of human rights and the necessary fight against terrorism can be achieved, is just a matter of who and how it is implemented. In my presentation, I set an example of bringing a man in because he wrote that he should throw rotten eggs at the prime minister, I think that's one example of over-granting under the auspices of the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117185	Thank you, thank you. Dearly respected representative Sacic also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117186	Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that in your explantation and argument you have touched questions, this complex issue of combating terrorism, but that you have actually referred to here for a long time the fear of these fences which in physical terms do not really contribute to any good effective measures, no longer serve in the fight against terrorism as the modern Croatian state of means and tools has in its own hands, but multiple damages are done here to the domicile people who live here, as well as to the tourists that we do not speak, but I agree with you that there is one negligence of state repressive bodies because we are on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security a year ago asking to reconstruct the whole, we want to protect both the government and the assembly and all institutions, but not in the way that has worked in the original community... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117187	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117188	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague for, in your comment, I would say, thank you for mentioning that the Committee on National Security discussed this, and unfortunately I did not have time to state all this in five minutes and therefore I said that I would ask the President of Parliament again to free the assembly from the fences. Let me also remind you that our club has repeatedly sought and suggested that more money be made to cyber security because I think we all will unfortunately agree today that it is precisely cyber security that can primarily protect us and in the first wave certainly the most from terrorism, certainly much more than fences that break in a few seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117189	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117190	Dear MPs, I agree with you that rotten eggs have nothing to do with terrorism, have ties to egoism, and that is why such a decision has been made, but that does not mean that this law is not to be adopted, I think that we should because we need to fight terrorism, it is only a question of how we will later control the institutions that are making decisions whether something is for or not, whether it's something terrorist content, or whether it's something really something that might later be bad for someone, and maybe disrupting someone's authority, so that's the part that you mentioned about protecting human rights, freedom of speech and everything else, and that's why I think we should see all the dependent laws and see how we exercise the control of institutions that make decisions whether something of this content or what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117191	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117192	I'd like to say thank you for your comment. I may not be enough, but I totally believe that the fight against terrorism is an extremely important, important topic and an important thing, there is no dilemma, but what should certainly be stressed is the surveillance of such fights because we have already given examples that we are not repeating, so in this sense I think, as I have said, that civil oversight of the work of the secret services is at 89 plays in zero cases, so not a single presentation has found anything controversial, that the MIP report is late in this assembly for a year, and that is regularly what is illegal, and therefore our club will submit an amendment precisely on the trail of what you have said to seek once a year's report on the conduct of this law so that this assembly can control and monitor that I say implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117193	Thank you. Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117194	Dear colleagues, I agree with you that it's a shame that we don't have this law in two readings because we think it's extraordinary, that it's especially important in the midst of all these events that have been happening lately. However, there is a colleague, Pavić, in his debate, has raised the issue of cooperation between EU member states, how much will it actually be one quality co-operation, especially when we know that only a few months ago, a drone that fell into Zagreb, has been flying over Hungary for 40 minutes, and none of the neighbouring countries have been warned about it, and we are rightly wondering if someone is also anticipating through their services that something is being prepared in the neighbouring country will the neighbouring country be warned about it and if not who will be responsible for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117195	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117196	Thank you. I would like to thank my colleague for your comment because, of course, I do not have any answers to these questions, I can only agree with you that we should be very concerned that such a flying object to call it was very dangerous for 40 minutes, and that Croatia has not been informed about it, and I think that these are the things that Croatian security services and the Ministry of Defence, etc., all the institutions of this country should be asked and very concerned about and work on, and not to bring people who told the Prime Minister that they would shoot at smelly eggs, which is what this is all about, that is also the goal and the topic I wanted to talk about, about this disproportionateity of those real dangers that they are not responding to, but is therefore commending the prime minister with the detention of 72-year-old citizens for such ridiculous threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117197	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Mato Čičak, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117198	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the issue of spreading terrorist content on the Internet is only one of the forms of spreading terrorist content and propaganda on the Internet. This law also ensures that any person submits a legal remedy against restrictions on content to the competent authority. Such content shall ensure transparency and shall also protect the person from censoring the content he has presented. It should be stressed that such a law provides for cooperation between the MUP, the Council for Electronic Media, and sanctions can be administrative and criminal law. Also, the extremely positive thing is to foresee the possibility of voluntary removal of content without the necessary procedure being carried out. This law is extremely important in today’s times that are extremely challenging, and unfortunately information is being manipulated and abused daily. This law creates the basis and basis for us to effectively face any type of information and propaganda of the organization and individuals who glorify and propagate terrorist organisations and ideas. The law enforcement funds are provided in the framework of the regular operations of the Ministry and the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities and there is no need to provide additional resources. As a colleague from the club pointed out, the HDZ Representatives Club will support such a proposal for a law to be adopted by an urgent procedure due to the time-limit of application of the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117199	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honored Representative Davor Dretar will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117200	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this is how little we finish in these five minutes to once again highlight one important part of the regulation that we are taking over here today, and from it we are creating one Croatian law. In Article 5 of the already mentioned Regulation 2021/784, Article 5, whose title is Public Encouragement to commit a criminal act of terrorism, states that Member States are taking the necessary measures to ensure that the spread of a message or the making of a message publicly available in another way by means of any means on the Internet or outside it with the intention to encourage the initiation of any of the offences, I have read those acts in my own speech on behalf of the club, so if such behaviour is directly or indirectly, for example, by excelling terrorist acts of terrorism, thereby causing the risk of the possibility of committing one or more such crimes, so that such spread of the message is punishable as a criminal offence when it is committed. So, with direct intent. I'll remind you one more time, and maybe I'll do one quick poll, here we are, there's plenty of us here. When someone says a problem in a single bay can be solved by an explosive, do you think it's an invitation to commit acts of terrorism? A fellow Pavić? You have no idea. A fellow Acklar? Hard, hard to decide. A fellow Boric? ... So let me ask you, little communication, but I see, well, I just wanted to say that we are facing ethically very difficult questions that are hard to answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right, and once again I'm reminded of who's going to assess it. Let us also look at Article 14 of this Law, which we adopt that regulates criminal provisions. The fine of between 50,000 and 500,000 kuna will punish a legal person for the offence as a legal person, who, in paragraph 2, writes in the event that he discovers any terrorist content that involves the immediate threat to life, does not immediately inform the competent authorities. Here, the result of my brief poll here shows that you are very reluctant, no one has said yes or no. How can someone here drink 50,000 to half a million kuna? So someone in a legal person must assume the responsibility of ladies and gentlemen, you don't want, someone will have to, because they will risk a fine of up to half a million kuna. We're very inaccurately defining this level of responsibility. Whoever of the staff of the content service provider has competence, has the responsibility in this case legally to assess to what extent some content poses a danger to someone's life, by someone's property whether it's private, state or whatever it is. We heard here and the story of the fences on Mark's square, respected representative Raukar Gamulin put it very precisely, and she's absolutely right. Let's also remember this terrible act that we strongly condemn, then we've heard of some members of the DP being radicalized by the public, that that's all because we may be in principle what we exist. And once again I will say from this place and ask the honored Prime Minister to order the removal of the fences from Mark's square, we are in progress, we are on the verge of the tourist season, the city is full of tourists, be sure each of them asks why these fences are here. I'm not quite sure which kind of lies the poor tourist guides invented to somehow cover the whole story. So, Mr. Prime Minister, move the fences from Mark's square. The history of Croatian political relations has shown that the prime ministers are far more dangerous than the ones they sit with every day at the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117201	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Zeljko Pavić will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117202	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First, let me answer my colleague Dretar why I said I had no idea if it was an invitation to terrorism or not, let's see what terrorism is. So according to some definition, it's a deliberate use of illegal violence or threats, illegal violence to condemn fear and with the intention of forcing or threatening authorities or societies to achieve some kind of terrorist goals. Now, this colleague of yours who made that statement, whether he really had any terrorist intentions or maybe he was a little distracted at that point, I really don't know, so it's hard to say whether there was something terrorist threat or not and whether it was an invitation to terrorism or not. What is actually going through our debate all the time is the question of whether institutions that are going to decide whether something that calls for terrorism or not, whether these institutions are going to make the right decision at the right time or actually knowingly or unconsciously violate human rights or whether or not they are going to violate freedom of speech. And that was through a few speeches stretching from the opposition lines. We've warned that, and we think it needs to be controlled, and we need to have additional control. Here I am, and I will mention again that we need to see if we need to amend the Law on Electronic Communications because of the decision that, after Hera's decision, no appeal can be filed but must be brought to the Supreme Court. And of course we need to see if we need to maybe cut this deadline that was given to the Council for Electronic Media, to decide whether it's something terrorist content or not. We also believe that we should take some additional controls whether through this law or some other law today we have not been able to write the amendments, especially because we have not been able to make a full analysis of which all the laws apply and perhaps in some law, and it says that there should be additional control over the Council for Electronic Media, or there may be some additional control over HERA or there may be some additional control over the MIP Special Unit that deals with the prevention and repression of terrorism and that will actually decide whether there is something terrorist content or not, so we have not written any amendments, but if we determine that there is this need I think we will then seek to amend and supplement the law as soon as possible. What I would also like to mention on behalf of the club is that call to the report that I have already said and when I spoke on behalf of the club, to see if there is a possibility that these reports that are given in the EU and which will later be actually the result of the service that these reports are given in the Assembly, of course on time, not with a delay of one year and that these reports are also discussed in the Assembly. And if necessary, if there is a need to also prescribe some measures, that is to say, to see what to do with decisions made wrong and actually had nothing to do with terrorist content, and yet they have been removed from the Internet and what damage they have done to service providers on the Internet, and also to the owners of these content. So I think we have something else to talk about and I believe that we may soon have some changes and additions to that law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117203	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are going to the next item, which is - The Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and on matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 278. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Margareta Majeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At EU level, a Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and matters related to parental responsibility has been adopted on the international abduction of children and enters into force in the Republic of Croatia on 1 August 2022. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Council Regulation of 25 June 2019 lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and the annulment of marriage, and disputes on parental responsibility with the international element. It also facilitates the circulation of decisions and authentic documents and certain agreements in the EU by laying down provisions on recognition and enforcement in other Member States. The Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on civil and legal visions of international child abduction in relation to relations between Member States is also being supplemented, and the child's right to express his own opinion is strengthened. The law implementing the Council Regulation shall ensure the effective application of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Social Affairs shall be designated as the central authority of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this Regulation. The courts, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care shall be designated as competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation. The law stresses the importance of the child’s well - being and expressing his child’s opinion in the process and what is extremely important is hasty conduct. It is therefore proposed to adopt the final proposal for a law implementing the Council Regulation from 25 June 2019. on jurisdiction, recognition of enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in real relation to parental responsibility and on international child abduction. Here's that...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117249	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117250	Mrs. Mađeric, what is the point of adopting the European regulation if Croatian institutions misappropriate or unlawfully interpret them? I have informed the minister personally of a case that is evidence of harming children to a single mother in order to please a father who is of course from a family of financial powers. Six medical experts from different institutions confirmed that children were abused by their father, the father himself admitted to applying force against children, and only one institution challenged the testimony of children and this is the Poliklinika for the protection of children and young people in Zagreb. We know that because of the irregularities, the former principal had to step down. Despite the unquestionable facts, children are, meanwhile, in a phase of taking away their mother and giving care to a father I repeat, there are serious accusations of abuse. Are your services aware of the responsibility for children and the possible consequences of children’s health and safety? You and your ministry are obliged to protect young children from abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117251	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your comment. As I pointed out by law, the importance of the child’s well - being and what is extremely important is the expression of the child’s opinion in the process and particularly important haste. In particular, individual proceedings in which the parties are underage children cannot even comment, but I would like to point out here that in all proceedings, all bodies acting on the protection and welfare of children, therefore not only the welfare bodies but also other competent authorities must make decisions in accordance with the best interests of the child. We as the Ministry of the Competent Ministry of the Social Care System oversee the work of professional services and I would like to point out that we have increased the number of administrative and inspection controls in the last two years by more than 300% and hired more than 200 professional workers in social care centres [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and increased the number of persons employed in inspection and administrative supervision. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117253	MP Vidovic Kristo has raised a breach of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to use this institution to realize that I'm going to get a warning because it's extremely important to stress the answer is not enough today. I stress this is an emergency situation, emergency situations require extraordinary measures, the ministry has opportunities and mechanisms to protect children. I appeal here in front of the Croatian public to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117255	You're as well aware as you said it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. The Honorable representative, Beljak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majeric. What Vidovic Kristo said, and you fenced yourself to avoid commenting on an individual case, she did not mention any personal data and I think that you are here and that the system is there to protect the children and protect the mother. In this case, we have terror, we have terrorism as far as I know the financial power that is clearly closely linked to the ruling structures that through courts, through institutions, do whatever they want contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, contrary to all the norms of the EU's civilization achievements and use their money to wrong the child. It's your job that should just react to that case that MP Kristo spoke about not once or twice and protect the children in a specific case. I'm not talking about personal data, but I'm talking about a case that's obviously very well-known to you because you're A suitable colleague Kristo read. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117257	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117258	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree with you that the main task of the system is to protect the interests of children, the best interests of every child in the Republic and, of course, of all users, but what is most important is the most vulnerable group concerned by the welfare system. And I am also in response to the reply in the reply to the distinguished representative Karolina Vidović Kristo here and I am responsible for you that we as a Resort Ministry, of course, are not exclusively in these procedures, but in all procedures is not only responsible for the welfare system but also other systems, but we oversee the work of the social care system through administrative and inspection supervision, we immediately respond to all the performances that we receive to the ministry in the independent sector for administrative and inspection supervision, and we as a ministry have increased the number of these supervisions, but also the number of perpetrators And we need more [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Upgrade. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117259	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117260	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. You said this law as well as you pointed out that the best interest of the child is stressed, takes care of the child's well-being and prescribes the conduct of the Centre for Special Care. Last time I asked your colleague about the functioning of the Centre for Special Care, because the fact that a special custodian is taking care of 445 children and she announced the employment of 20 new special custodians. My inquiry is about what's up with that? Are special guardians employed? Secondly, my question concerns cases of unlawful detention and detention of children and of a court decision which is prescribed by this regulation or law to take a court decision no later than six weeks. We must point out the criticisms of the European Court of Human Rights on the long-term in Croatian courts for the return of a child if some proceedings have never even been completed, and in some cases the six-week deadline is then exceeded to 112 weeks or even in one case for 150 weeks. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117261	I'm asking all of you both the rapporteur and your colleagues to stick to the weather. Please, we all stick to the time or the debate stretches to indefinitely, of course we can all talk longer, but we have to stick to the rules of procedure. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As you know, the law on a special centre, special custody, competitions are under way and we are aware of the problems of having insufficient numbers of executioners and we are working intensively on it. As I pointed out, both employment and social care centres and institutions that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and it has only been employed for 220 professionals and workers for the last year and a half. As regards this Regulation, what is important to highlight the most extensive amendments have been introduced in the area of international child abduction by introducing a new chapter supplementing the application of the Convention on the Civil Rights of the 1980 International Child Kidnapping and what is important is that deadlines for the conduct of the central authorities are more detailed and precise and clear procedures are laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117263	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117264	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What body keeps records of the procedures in place, how many are and where they are currently status and do you expect that there will be changes in the number of procedures with regard to the adoption of a new regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117265	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117266	Thank you, Madam Representative, it's our ministry and our central body. So far, in 2022, about 20 items were received under Council Regulations. Since 27 November 2003, we have a service for international co-operation in the field of child protection, and currently 1208 items are on average about 25 cases of international child abduction, and the largest number of cases relate to cross-border maintenance charges. I would like to point out, however, that, by adopting this regulation and in force of the August 1st regulation this year, we expect urgency in handling and, of course, urgent settlement of cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117267	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117268	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Mađeric, here is just to comment a little on the situation when the competent authority is considering the accommodation of a child in another Member State, we see here we need, of course, the consent of the competent authority of that country if it is necessary to obtain it. But I will ask you when the child is in a foster home or when the child is in an institution of social care and we can still see from this article in another country. I'm sure they don't flower roses for that child. It's a child in an extremely difficult situation. Let me just ask you what we're going to do with the amendment later, we see here that it is going to be requested that the report on the child's institution be delivered once a year. I personally consider that. I'm asking you what kind of procedure it is, then does the Institute deliver that report to the parents or is it just one let's say so, I apologize, an administrative obligation or an ordinary piece of paper?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117269	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117270	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and for this question, which is also specifically related to the adoption of this regulation. I would certainly like to point out that what is important is that there is daily communication between our central body, which is within our ministry as I pointed out, the Service for International Child Protection, through other central bodies, depending on what the citizen is concerned, whether it is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia or of another EU member state. Of course, the conditions are assessed, all conditions are checked, all actions are extremely important and are assessed through competent social care centres because they are extremely sensitive groups, they are minor children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117271	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117272	Thank you. The Secretary of State is not a disputed regulation that seeks to facilitate an agreement on the jurisdiction of a Member State between the countries of the EU in a way that relaxes the normal international rules. But the problem is that when you talk about the content of that regulation, you don't see where the real problem is. It is not the problem here to determine a country that will decide on the case, but when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is not acting in a way that protects its own citizens. On the trail of questions you were asked when you talk about urgency, we have a situation so that the Constitutional Court does not rush into cases where someone is literally concerned with life and death. When you talk about empowering your child’s right to think, our children’s courts ask nothing, let alone making decisions by respecting what children can say, in this dispute, and say, How do you intend to solve these problems? [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117273	Honorable representative, esteemed secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117274	Thank you, distinguished representative Oreskovic, and for your replica. What is extremely important, and is also the regulation that should enter into force on 1 August of this year, but the whole reform of the social care system will certainly know normally that everything and the Social Care Act, but also the other laws that have already been adopted and implemented in the Republic of Croatia, will improve and improve the status of children and all users in the social care system. And with regard to this regulation, as I pointed out, it is important to introduce and introduce precise and concrete deadlines for the conduct of central bodies and of course the urgency in acting and what is extremely important and the opinion of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117275	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we were recently able to hear and read that Father had violently taken two children away from his wife and fled to Croatia. We have cases where a desperate father says his ex-wife kidnapped our children and took them across the border. There are also mothers who have been fighting for a child for 18 years. Praise is worthy of this bill, which just wants to highlight the importance and implementation of the rush procedure and the importance of the welfare of the child and of allowing the child to express his own opinion. Please, given your knowledge and experience, how long have these items usually been dealt with, and what can be expected now in view of all the remaining items that have not yet been solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117277	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117278	Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Juričev-Martinchev. What is, of course, absolutely influencing how and in what way, but what is extremely important is that the urgency of the proceedings depends on the complexity of the case and that not only is the social care system being handled but also depends on the course of the proceedings in the court and the rest of the proceedings, and it is extremely important to protect the interests of minor children, and I am sure that everyone here today who participates in this debate, and regarding this point of the agenda and that we all here have one common goal, and this is to protect the welfare of minor children, and we must continue to improve both the welfare system and other systems that care for children and their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117279	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117280	Thank you very much. I wanted to comment on something today, since we are talking about relationships means within the family and relations with children, all the time you're saying that the system has to in some way make it possible for children to benefit. Today, a decision was taken in a high administrative court that abolished a parent measure from another system which considered that this measure was not good and that it should in some way be otherwise formulated and what happened meant that one part of the children should have remained without any care of the system, but this decision says that, regardless of all these children, they would also have their parents' concerns, had their own compensation because the mayor and the other system failed to provide enough space for me in those kindergartens in time and that it could continue to work, whether observing such a measure, regardless of what this law quite different solution still says that we can take care of the children in a different way and that it still has some meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117281	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117282	So taking care of children, child protection, policies towards children are certainly extremely important, that they are focused precisely on their rights and that their interests are an absolute priority for all of us here, which I don't doubt at all, and for everyone who participates in policymaking from those lowest levels of municipalities, cities, counties and competent ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Measures that bring demographic improvement and which aim at the country's demographic recovery, which are high-quality, should be constantly improved. It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Central State Office for Demography and Youth that implements a series of activities and measures, and is passing laws to initiate demographic revitalisation throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117283	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we go to the debate, the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, who is not there, loses his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117284	Thank you, Vice President, honorary secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Council Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and complies with the EU acquis. Compared to the text of the law that passed the first reading in HS since 27.5.2022. only nomtechnically completed art. 5., the titles above art. 16, 19, 21 and 22 of the final draft law in accordance with the observations of the HS Legislative Committee. In the debate on the draft laws on working bodies, as well as in the plenary debate, there were no substantive remarks and proposals. At EU level, Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 has been adopted. on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and in matters related to parental responsibility, and on the international abduction of children who are put outside the scope of Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003. on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of court decisions in matrimonial matters and matters relating to parental responsibility and entry into force in the Republic of Croatia on 1 August 2022. As an instrument of secondary EU legislation, this Regulation is directly applicable in the field of Member States following a national law on the implementation of the regulation in question to the extent necessary for the effective application of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia, however, the regulation which we are talking about today introduces additional provisions on international child abduction, and introduces deadlines for the conduct of central authorities and elaborates certain procedures, e.g. child accommodation procedures in another Member State. The EU Council Regulation 2019/11 consists of 9 chapters and the most extensive amendments have been introduced in the area of international child abduction by introducing a new chapter supplementing the implementation of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnapping. The law makes it clearer to lay down rules of conduct in the reference of certain pleas under the Regulation concerning requests relating to the delivery of documents in accordance with the need to ensure effective and expeditious treatment in matters relating to parental liability. This law lays down the Ministry of Social Care tasks as the central authority of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this Regulation and provides for courts, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the Centre for Special Care as the competent authorities for the implementation of this Regulation. This Law refers to the application of EU secondary legislation which regulates the use of videoconferencing and encourages direct judicial communication, in line with the requirements laid down by the Regulation. The case law also clearly provides for the implementation of the Regulation, the choice of court, court, and the possibility of reaching an agreement on jurisdiction for parental care procedures in relation to the procedures of international child abduction. The question of the date of proceedings before the court is further regulated, the importance of conducting an emergency procedure and the importance of the child's well-being and of allowing the person's own opinion and child to be expressed, the issue of legal assistance, the issue of certificates and legal medicines. What is significant is that the Law emphasises the importance of conducting an emergency procedure and the importance of the child's well-being and of enabling the child to express his own opinion, with an emphasis on the responsibility of the Centre for Special Care. The child's well-being must be imperative in all procedures, and it is precisely the urgency of the procedure that is important in difficult family situations, such as in this case divorce, the legal flag and the annulment of marriages with international elements. The law stipulates that competent authorities encourage peaceful dispute resolution, especially through family mediation, unless it would be contrary to the interests of the child or thus unduly delay the procedure. The peaceful settlement of disputes is an important element of European legislation, especially in the area of marital disputes because it puts children's well-being first and reduces the exposure to the stress of court proceedings. There is also the important role of parents who are in the dispute and the need to show them that agreement and family mediation, above all, enable the child to cope more easily with stressful, sometimes traumatic events, such as divorce. Article 10 regulates the principle of the welfare and protection of the best interests of the child, and in particular stresses the right of the child to express his opinion on matters which concern him, taken into account in accordance with his age and maturity, in order to take into account the child’s interest assessment. In short, I will further specify what is being regulated by the Law, meaning the competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation are courts, social labour law, social work, the Centre for Special Care and other institutions in accordance with their jurisdiction. The central authority for the implementation of the Regulation, namely the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, family and social policy, shall be designated as the date of initiation of the proceedings before the court, which shall be the date of the initiation of the mandatory consultation before the Centro in accordance with the Family Law, which shall be binding prior to the initiation of the court proceedings. Legal aid is in line... , legal aid is prescribed in accordance with national rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administrative authorities in the counties and the City of Zagreb are responsible. They shall also be prescribed, the procedure for issuing certificates in accordance with the Regulation in the jurisdiction of the court and the appeal procedure shall be regulated. Confirmation issued by the court who reached the verdict. In the mandatory form in the language of the State in which the judgment is to be carried out and the judgment shall not be translated. Legal medicinal products shall be prescribed and regulated, jurisdiction of courts in the second degree, county courts responsible for family matters in accordance with national rules. It shall also be governed by the procedures for the transfer of jurisdiction to courts of another State at the request of a party or under official duty where a court in another State which is not competent would be a better choice for decision-making. For example. if the child is closely associated with that State and other reasons set out in the Regulation. This Law further regulates the process of transfer of competences in parental responsibility procedures between courts of different states, managing the best interests of the child. The implementation of this Act does not require the provision of financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, as the funds are secured under the regular activities of the authorities responsible for the implementation of this Act. There is no need for additional funds for salaries, since the required number of employees will be provided by internal redistribution of officials. Following the above, the HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Council Regulation (EU) 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial disputes and on matters related to parental responsibility and on international child abduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117285	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117286	Thank you. Thank you very much, most esteemed chairman, ma'am. State secretary with an associate. In short, of course, the Department of Homeland Movements will support this Act, we will support the rights of the child, we will support as always and as all, I can undoubtedly say, the right of the child to healthy growing up, growing up in a healthy environment and, of course, the exceptional commitment of the state and all its institutions to help grow that child when it is the basic unit of society, it is a family, in a way becoming dysfunctional, that is, an appointment. I would just like to warn and draw attention that we will propose two amendments which, I think, will by no means violate the effectiveness of this Law, in Article. 10 which refers to the child’s well-being, chapter 3, specifically says, in the cases referred to in Article 2, which is when a child should express his own opinion taken into account in accordance with his age and maturity, and the child may express his opinion directly or through a special guardian, the court will, in Article 3, appoint the child of a special guardian from the Centre for Special Care. Here is the point, we would still suggest to place a decimal here, since this item does not define the time or within which period the child should be determined, in case there is a need, a special guardian, so we will suggest that there be added behind the decimal without a delay, within the shortest possible time, and no more than 30 days. Of course, it is clear to all of us that it is a very difficult situation, sometimes we see that the media are having a lot of fun with it, which the whole family, and the primary child can put in an extremely difficult mental state. We'll give you one amendment on which I'm already with the esteemed lady. The State Secretary discussed, when the competent authority is considering the accommodation of a child in another country, it will be necessary to agree with the competent authority of that State in the event, of course, that such consent should be obtained and the consent of the competent authority of the Member State for the delivery of reports on the child's establishment once a year. We will propose that it be minimum twice a year during the duration of the child's stay in that Member State, especially if it is, as it is said here and states, a decision on the accommodation of a child in a foster family or in an institution of social care. Everything else from transitional and final provisions to, of course, delegating competent authorities, we cannot declare, or claim that anything else is questionable, but in any case, we need children and we need to protect as much as we can and if possible even a little bit better than that. In any case, the House Movement Representatives Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117287	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117288	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before us, the Law implementing Council Regulation 2019/1111 of 25 June 2019 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and matters relating to parental responsibility and the international abduction of children is before us. The Regulation lays down uniform rules on jurisdiction for divorce, legal divorce and annulment of marriage and on disputes in parental responsibility with the international element. The competent authorities for implementation, courts, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the competent ministry for social care affairs have been prescribed. It is important to highlight the best interests of the child to whom these competent authorities should be led as a priority, as well as to lead the principle of haste. This Law provides that courts of each degree should make a decision in return procedures in cases of unlawful detention and detention, no later than 6 weeks after the initiation of the procedure, unless this is not possible because of exceptional situations. Now we come here to the first stumbling block. According to the European Court of Human Rights' decisions, a number of criticisms are precisely on the long-term conduct of Croatian courts for the return of a child, sometimes never ended, and in some cases, the period of 6 weeks prescribed by the Hague Convention then exceeded to 112 weeks or in one case, even to 151 weeks. On several occasions, the European Court of Human Rights has found that there have been more delays by Croatian authorities, as regards convincing arguments about the reasons for its long-term inactivity. A few months ago, family departments were established in municipal courts, at county, county courts' headquarters, and this way we call on the Ministry of Justice to consider the cases so far of an international abduction of a child and take steps to improve the conduct to have as little criticism as possible of the European Court of Human Rights, which means less violations of human or children's rights. How in at least one part of the court's specialization to show its meaning and to protect the most vulnerable, not to keep the specialization itself in its own right. Therefore, respected State Secretary, these cases are made public, are in the European Court of Human Rights verdicts, and we need to speak publicly in order to, and we need to deal with them specifically in order to make sure that we have less criticism in that section and to protect our most vulnerable. The procedures for trusting the child with whom the child will be resident, i.e. to pursue personal relations, are long-term in the Croatian judiciary and the need for faster decision-making is constantly alerted by the Ombudsman for children. The court may adopt a provisional measure on the basis of which a parent or another child will reside and the achievement of personal relations between the parent and the child, which may potentially mitigate the conflict of parents, but is in the best interest of the child to make a measuring decision and the conduct of the competent authorities in the event of non-execution of court decisions. According to data from the competent ministry in 2020, as many as 2083 children failed to exercise their right to personal relations with another parent or to achieve it within the scope of a particular judicial decision due to the manipulative behaviour of the parent with whom the child is living, and 352 children were exposed to manipulation by parents who do not live at the time of their personal relations under supervision. Taking into account the child’s well-being, it is prescribed by this Act that the competent authorities are obliged to make possible the expression of their opinion taken into account in accordance with its age and maturity, and through a special guardian. The special custodian shall be appointed through the Centre for Special Care, whose work should be improved in a organisational sense. According to the data, all 18 employees of the special legal profession who are territorially deployed in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split are objectively unable to represent a large number of children and procedures ahead of them. During 2021, 8017 children were to be represented in the proceedings before the competent authorities and one guardian was to take care of the protection of 445 children in 293 cases. In fact, one custodian represented the average yearly and worked on 488 cases. According to the Ombudsman's data, special guardians attended only 15% of the scheduled hearings personally which is devastating, and writing submissions cannot qualityly represent the child's interest. A special custodian in court proceedings other than attending the hearings is obliged to have direct contact with the child, to introduce the child to the role of special guardian, to the case of court proceedings, to his right to express his opinion, to clarify possible outcomes and to respect the child's opinion or to learn about the whole process. There is a conversation and a parent, and a familiarity with the family situation to assess the best interests of the child. It is all in the existing organisation of the Centre for Special Care to satisfy the form, but far from protecting children's best interests and achieving children's rights in judicial proceedings. According to a report by the prosecutor for children in Croatia, a satisfactory level of child rights in the judicial process has not yet been achieved. Unfortunately, procedures take too long. Children do not receive the necessary information and rarely lack the appropriate assistance and support of the child during the course of the procedure. There is often no coordination and cooperation between the systems prescribed in the protocols. The law introduces the use of video conferences or other technologies for long-distance communication, and stresses the need for haste treatment and prescribed provisions on how to communicate. In addition to pointing to the importance of the child's well-being, a peaceful settlement of disputes through mediation in cross-border family disputes is also introduced, especially in disputes with cross-border parental abductions of children. The Institute of Peaceful Conflict Resolution is prescribed by family law in 2015, and family mediation is a process in which family members actually participate voluntarily. The family mediator is an impartial and particularly educated person who is registered in the family mediators' register, and the main purpose of the family mediation process is to reach a plan for joint parental care and other agreements relating to children's rights. In addition to this purpose in the family mediation process, the parties may also agree on any other issues of property and non-proprietary nature. The peaceful resolution of conflict and family disputes has been recognised as important in European legislation mainly in the procedures involving a child or actions related to parental care. Due to the overload of national courts, the EU's cross-border disputes with this regulation encourages and obliges Member States to introduce an alternative to judicial dispute resolution. According to current data from the ministry despite the existing national framework for family mediation in the context of kidnapping, this family mediation has not been used in any procedure. The principle of child welfare for the consequences of a child in marital disputes should certainly make sure that the importance of agreement and mediation as alternatives to court proceedings gives full importance and responsibility to parents for all consequences in the psychophysical development of the child. In view of the effectiveness of the use of the mediation process as a prevention system to address the problems arising from the change in the country of residence of the child, mediation should be improved in all border family disputes, and in particular in disputes involving the move of the child to another country. The SDP club will support this law, as newspapers in this legislation are in line with the Council Regulation, improving the rights and welfare of the child. But like any document we bring here, it's a matter of implementation. The preparedness of our judicial system as well as the overload of the Centre for Special Care as well as the peaceful resolution of disputes that are not sufficiently recognised in public consciousness and in legal practice. This is to be done by the Government and the competent ministries and to ensure all resources, inter-resorial cooperation for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117289	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, there will be a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117290	Thank you. I'm going to be brief because I really just want to highlight one aspect, one of the really important issues that we have in terms of recognising international decisions in matrimonial matters as well as issues relating to international child abductions, which are issues related to valorisation, recognition of judicial decisions, but also to other competent authorities when it comes to children who have been victims of the violence of one of the parents or when it comes to a parent who was a victim of violence. We currently have an open case in Croatia that is extremely difficult and in which we have this situation that is about children that several institutions have found to be victims of violence, that they have been abused by their father, that their mother has dual citizenship came with them to the Republic of Croatia and that, in fact, according to the legal frameworks that regulate in fact and that international child abduction is required to be applied to children. The specificities of these situations, so this isn't the only case. There are a number of such cases, especially since Croatia has dual citizenship agreements with various countries, so such situations can happen. I would like to stress that, we understand that this is a regulation, we understand that it must go directly into implementation in the way it is described, written because it binds by letter, and not just by purpose. So it's not a directive, and we can agree on that. However, we believe that we must have stronger decision-examination mechanisms, more active roles of welfare centres, more active roles of other actors in assessing and applying these rules when it comes to children and women victims of violence. We need to have temporary measures to stop children until things in court proceedings or other investigations are actually decided by other courts, other countries are finished. If we don't have it then we can eventually have cases like this case, I won't speak on purpose names where children and their mother on a daily basis don't know if anyone is going to pick them up and take them from their mother to another country and to a father who didn't say so, but through the fortification of several institutions abused those children. So here I am appealing here, and I believe that a colleague will also mention that although we agree with the implementation of the regulation, we just feel that we need additional fuses and stronger capacities of our institutions when it comes to cases of abused children or abused women and that we actually need to see how this regulation works in accordance with the Istanbul Convention and with all that it guarantees women victims of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117291	And on behalf of the Centre and GLAS's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117292	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation will not guarantee, however well it may be, any exercise of any rights because this is only an agreement at EU level to redistribute competences between individual Member States. And every single right, and so will the best interest of the child, will provide or will not provide the judge to whom the case comes to work. And nothing hurts as much as saying a sentence that should be pityed in advance by one whose beans have fallen so far that all the Member States have to decide his fate by the Croatian judiciary, and in particular that hurts when it comes to children. So, we all have the mouth full of saying that sentence the best interest of the child and we keep repeating such flossules and such phrases, and in fact there is no child in public policies or in their creation or in their implementations. We only use the child as a term, but not as an entity to which the legal system really provides the protection it enrolls in regulations and national laws. And let me just prove it on one example. In March I referred to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia one inquiry, I asked in fact that from the case law because the Supreme Court, by law and by law, is actually equating judicial practice, it is his main task, and if anyone should know what the case law in the Republic of Croatia is, it should be, it should be the Supreme Court. And I asked them to analyze the cases in which the decision was made on the basis of the child's opinion. What did I get as an answer? I read, so the Supreme Court's answer that I don't criticise this time, I don't criticise the Supreme Court, I criticize the entire system and all of us sitting here because we don't change anything. Therefore, the answer is: “It is not possible to obtain the data you requested from the Supreme Court database or to obtain these data from the eList information system. Namely, these data are not kept in the existing system." 86. A family law which obliges that in all procedures in which a child’s right or interest is decided, it enables the child to find out in an appropriate way all the relevant circumstances of the case to receive advice, to express his opinion, of course taking care of the child’s age and maturity. In practice, this means that the child will give his opinion before the court, but also at the Social Care Centre, where such an action must be carried out in all proceedings, so such action must be carried out. In order to answer the question that I asked the outcome of the procedures in which the child was allowed to express his opinion would be necessary, be careful now, to analyse all the individual judgments made in the first degree, so the Supreme Court suggests that I should therefore address the municipal civil court in Zagreb directly which has the most of these cases, and, if necessary, the President of the Supreme Court will also address the lower levels. In other words, we have no idea, we state have no idea what the outcome of that formal action was, and obviously it's just as a formal store we do, and not even every time and always, but as my colleague said before me, all in 15% of the cases a child comes to court at all, or through the submission of a question manifests itself. That means we're doing it for the sake of order and order, and it's not really respecting the international right of the child to wonder because I guess the child knows it best. And the victim of those shootings is not only parents, most often and wider relatives, he's a victim of the crackdown of the system, he's a victim of the experience of the system and of any kind of professional analysis very often financially supported by parents who are socially, economically and in any other sense, and it's better politically. It's the Republic of It also protects powerful people through its institutions from defining what the best interest of a child in a particular system means. So this is how these cases that my colleagues spoke of before me where we have two girls, about the same age as my daughters, who claim to have been sexually abused whose medical records and other documentation by some state institutions confirm that the children were honest and do not lie, but the system did not allow them to protect themselves. The system made it possible to ball, and even manipulate these provisions of international law whose jurisdiction should ultimately be valid is about our citizens because the mother and the girl have Croatian citizenship, what they do not have, do not have systematic protection as it says on paper. And what exactly are these regulations for? I'm actually wondering. So when I enrolled myself in a postgraduate study of European law, I was a great enthusiast of European community. Europe was a space that guaranteed some more standards both rightly and in economy and in science, but also in the general social values that one space guarantees. European law has taken the lead. It took so that a whole series of decades actually clashed and prevailed in force with national legislation. National legislation has always tested the limit of its legislative powers, so we have the judgments of the German courts so-called. Solange I and Solange II, so that line was eventually redefined or moved. What I see in Europe today, and I see as a problem and in the work of the Croatian Parliament, is that when something comes from a more European level of national legislation, they go through a line of less resistance, and not a single value written in a single act is further questioned, let alone that it is further upgraded or that they can even consider whether something in theory is well imagined and should serve a purpose that is introduced here, whether it can actually be implemented in practice. This is about in this particular case when we talk about the subject of marital disputes, things that are related to parental responsibility and to the international abduction of children as if you stick that beautiful dental crown to a tooth that is rotten, flimsy, horny nerves and meat. That's what it looks like in practice. In the replica, the minister mentioned that we changed the whole welfare system, and we did it the wrong way. In a very, very bad way against the complete profession. The outcomes of these changes have not yet been seen in application, and I am afraid and will be terrifying. When all this is summed up together, it's tragic that there will be a lot more, a lot of kids who will go through as we've had the opportunity to see it in the unfortunate case we talked about without mentioning the last name, in which we've come so far that the Constitutional Court has ignored the rushes of not only the parties, her lawyers, but even the public appeal of us Parliamentarians that we've talked about that case. But we will vote in a regulation that swears on the urgency of the proceedings in the child's best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117293	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. so we move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 298 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, respected State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117305	... The Croatian Assembly, distinguished representatives and MPs, the current Working Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport arranges working hours and mandatory rest of mobile workers and drivers in road transport, time and termination of driving, modes, conditions and procedure for obtaining permits for workshops, memory cards and conditions for their issue, official records, supervision and inspection, liability and misdemeanor provisions. [[Specially enabled.]] This proposal for a law amending and supplementing that law is transposed into Croatian legislation EU Directive 1057 of 2020. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 July 2020 laying down specific rules in respect of Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 67/2014 The EU to refer drivers to the road transport sector. The aim of that directive, and hence this bill, is to establish a safe, efficient and socially responsible road transport sector. In order to be realistic, it is necessary to ensure, on the one hand, adequate working conditions and social protection for the driver and, on the other hand, appropriate operating conditions and fair competition for road carriers. This proposal provides for specific rules, requirements and control measures relating to the reference of drivers to undertakings with a business origin in a Member State which directs drivers to the territory of another Member State on the basis of contracts concluded between undertakings which are referred to and the recipient of services operating in that Member State. Thus, carriers are obliged to meet certain administrative requirements before the start of the driver’s reference to another Member State’s territory. Therefore, at the beginning of the reference, the carrier shall be obliged to submit a declaration to the national competent authorities of the Member State to which the driver is addressed at the latest, using a standard multilingual public interface form related to the IMI system. The IMI or the Internal Market Information System is a software application available via the Internet developed by the Commission in cooperation with Member States to facilitate cross-border exchange of information and mutual assistance to Member States in the practical implementation of the information exchange requirements. In order to overcome language barriers, the IMI system is generally available in all EU official languages. The IMI system has been there for 10 years. the declaration shall contain the number of the Community licence, the contact details of the transport manager, the information on the driver to be submitted, the intended start-and-end date of reference, the registration mark of the motor vehicle, and the type of transport. The carrier shall ensure that the driver has at his disposal and at the request of the authorised person to present certain documents such as a copy of the statement of reference of the record of tachographs, etc. After a period of reference to the direct request of the competent authorities of the Member States in which the driver has been sent through the IMI system, the carrier is obliged to provide documentation relating to the driver’s fee in relation to the reference period and its labour contract or equivalent document, as well as work orders relating to the driver’s work and proof of payments. In addition to those duties, the duties of the driver of manual recording of the data on the crossing of the national border of a Member State or of a third country are prescribed. All of the above is necessary in order to ensure equal treatment between Member States with regard to the reference of drivers throughout the EU and to ensure a balance between the freedom of the carrier to provide cross-border services of free movement of goods, appropriate working conditions and social protection of drivers. Furthermore, exemptions from the previously stated duties of carriers and drivers are prescribed, for example, not considered to be addressed when carrying out bilateral transport of goods, bilateral transport of passengers, when the driver carries out transport through the national territory of a Member State without loading or unloading of the cargo, and without boarding or landing of passengers. Furthermore, this bill introduces the keeping of records in the central information system for the collection, storage, processing and storage of tachograph data SOTAH in the facts related to workshops carrying out tasks relating to tachographs, issued and abolished permits of workshops, the list of electronic keys to workshops, sealing equipment and the list of stamps, data on technicians, issued cards of workshops and technicians. Also, the bill for a certain offence increased the fine to ensure the general purpose of criminal sanctions. It is the most serious offenses such as the cover-up, evasion and destruction of tachograph data, possession and use of more than one driver card as well as the use of other people's card, doing business related to tachographs without the permission of the ministry, vehicles and buses that must have a tachograph installed. They're not built in, etc. Furthermore, infringements and criminal sanctions have been prescribed for certain behaviours in order to ensure the implementation and implementation of a directive such as breach of the obligation to record data on crossing the state border and not to submit a declaration of reference to the national authorities of a Member State. It's over. By passing this law for the obligation to introduce the euro as official currency in the Republic of Croatia, fines for violations are prescribed in euro, which provisions will take effect on the day of the introduction of the euro as official currency in the Republic of Croatia. Following all this forward, I propose the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117306	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first one's a respected attorney, Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117307	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. We can see in the e-consumption that a lot of controversy has caused a debate on mobile workshops, so my question is what will leaving mobile workshops to bring to the transporters positively?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117308	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117309	Well, it's been seen that mobile workshops are getting a lot more abuse of control and conduct of the whole process. For this reason, they are excluded in this bill, so there is no such possibility. It's all happening in controlled and solid objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117310	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117311	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Mihotic. Thank you for a nice discussion today morning on the board, so just to be heard, the Croatian public. We mentioned today on the board the situation that we currently have in vehicles installed and analogue as part of some old, now almost non-existent technology. We have digital tachographs, and now here we have smart ones. I believe that one day's goal is to have a hundred percent coverage of commercial transport by smart tachographs, so just ask you once again to give that answer from the committee's morning session can we use EU funds for this kind of promotion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117312	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117313	I appreciate the question. Otherwise, since 21.8.2023, there will be a commitment in all new, new-bought vehicles to have smart tachographs and for all those who have so far used analogue and other tachograph types will be left normally that we will either seek to be able through the Environment Fund or through the Ministry's resources to provide drivers with the opportunity to supply this latest technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117314	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117315	Thank you, Secretary of State. There are workshops of great importance in the implementation of this law, we have already mentioned them, so it is legal or natural persons, craftsmen, who, on the basis of the permission of the Ministry of Transport, carry out business related to tachographs. The Ministry shall issue permits to the workshop on the basis of the conditions laid down in Article 1(1). 14, abolishing licences on the basis of the conditions laid down in Article 14. 15, keep records of workshops, these are permits, changes, list of equipment, data on technicians who are trained to work with tachographs. The Ministry should also deliver to the EU competent authority a list of technicians and workshops and how many workshops there are in the Republic of Croatia and can they respond to the requirements of the carrier for tachographs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117316	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117317	Well, I find it very difficult to speculate on the exact number, but there are enough of them anyway, covering the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and taking care of normal, where there are multiple carriers, that there are more possibilities of control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117318	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117319	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Why is it missed that the criminal provisions of this Act, since Croatia has since 1.1.2023 introduced the euro as an official currency, is expressed twice in kunas and equivalents in the euro because otherwise, we will have to coordinate this Law from the following year?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117320	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117321	Okay, since it is already a certain entry into force of the euro, then everything in the euro has been defined, the current law has left the possibility of kuna, so there will be no overlap.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117322	Dear Representative Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117323	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Croatian Employers' Association submitted comments on the draft and proposal of this Act. What does these remarks apply to, and how is this bill actually implemented to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117324	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117325	Well, it should be pointed out first that these remarks came after a public debate, so we processed everything, answered, and then the remarks came. The remarks went in part in the direction of penalties, the penalties were defined and increased where frequent abuse was observed, and the penalty was also educational, therefore, we hope that this level of punishment will lead to the avoidance of the fraud of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117326	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we welcome this bill, it is certainly also an additional guarantee of road safety. From the talks, for example with the direction of Transport School in Split, this introduction of order has further strengthened the interest in the employment of drivers, so that drivers are very much wanted as employees, not only for us in Croatia but throughout Europe, and I am interested in whether in the context of this, we are also looking at provisions when it comes to sanitary transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117328	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117329	So sanitary, sanitary transport has one part, normally, which is specific and which provisions apply only to it, and normally to apply these general provisions regarding working hours, to the rights of workers working in that activity and thus to be controlled under this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117330	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The law is good and must comply with the EU Directive. In a little conversation with our carriers, they realize that they have problems with workers, that it is not only a problem with us but also across Europe, but they believe that by entering Schengen they will somehow make it easier for themselves in terms of transport and that it will not be, which is their biggest problem was those long columns, waiting, when they had to carry their goods, where they were wasting their most time, at border crossings to deliver or to get the goods at a given time because then they had to pay big pens and believe that by entering that Schengen and introducing the euro for them will greatly improve the situation as far as these very problems are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117332	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117333	Well, I'm sure. And even only the introduction of this regulation will facilitate communication with all countries that are also in Schengen, and so far the main problems have been what you said, waiting at the borders and the inability to easily cross the border and we have tried and as the Ministry in certain situations where it is possible to facilitate their passage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117334	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117335	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, this is where you stated that you are trying to regulate more appropriate working conditions and social protection for drivers, right? So I'm interested in what are the specific provisions of the article that are specific, as you said in the debate earlier that there are several tachographs in the vehicles, that there should be some irregularities solved, so we're talking about the work of the driver himself and their conditions on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117336	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117337	Well, inside are defined ways and hours that drivers spend at work, and exactly what they do in driving, what they do in waiting, what they do in administrative affairs and normal, these conditions in accordance with directives are increasingly humane and humane, so most specifically, these articles that relate to it have improved the status of drivers who use, normally, these opportunities of communication between European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117338	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117339	Thank you. I'm not sure if you're the best person to ask this question, but I'll try anyway. So, the basic intensity is clear to me and I don't mind, so if we want to strengthen the position of workers, it's good to control how long they spend in a vehicle when they go from one country to another and it's good for Member States to exchange, in a way, data on that. But doesn't it seem to you that we may have gone a step too far, that this has become an excessive regulation that in some way violates that balance of subsidiarity and issues that should be addressed at EU level, which issues should be kept in the domain of national legislation. So as some of the questions before me have been raised, here in fact more is mentioned at the level of the declarations what will be done, and perhaps at that implementation level the system is not even prepared for such provisions as you have now proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117340	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117341	Well, we in contact with drivers and their associations want to create more humane working conditions and facilitate their conditions, so I'm sure each of these measures will finally be implemented. This morning we discussed on the committee on this issue what Mr. Dretar said was one thing that was also solved through the law. And it means 21.8.2023. Smart tachographs are introduced. On the one hand, they are additional controls, and on the other hand they certainly make it easier to work and then prevent the abuse of those who send drivers on the way to certain jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117342	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists will speak to the respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117343	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Road transport is a complex system, but also an important segment of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Transport in the Republic of Croatia is on a constant rise, and it is crucial to regulate some of its essential components, including the issue of mandatory mobile workers' holidays, as well as the arrangement of road transport recording devices. What are the elements that have a significant impact on the very security of traffic that we have from year to year is becoming a more critical segment in our daily lives. It is absolutely certain that fatigue and deconcentration of drivers and mobile workers who can have serious consequences for the safety of all road users during the continuous management of motor vehicles, which requires continuous revision of existing legislation and improving their quality in line with new technological and scientific achievements. The direct link between safety and driver's ability to safely carry out certain activities encourages legislators, carriers and its employees to limit the maximum length of driving without stopping and rest and regulate the obligations of daily and weekly vacations as well as the intended mandatory driver breaks, all in order to improve road safety as well as to prevent and disrupt competition. It is precisely because of the increase in road safety that the EU has imposed its obligation to use tachographs and the digital generation of tachographs that has become mandatory since 2019 that further ensure that this objective is achieved. The use of new technologies aims to improve the working conditions of drivers, prevent possible abuses, increase transport safety, and level playing field for carriers in order to avoid unfair competition. So-called The human factor is undoubtedly the most important factor in traffic safety, as the human contribution to the unfortunate event is estimated to be almost 85%. According to some sources in the Republic of Croatia, there are more than 50,000 drivers, so this law is extremely important, which in its work is subject to the Working Time Act and compulsory mobile workers' holidays, and more than 10,000 persons involved in road transport. This proposal also aims to promote improvement and practice of supervision and implementation of state authorities and officials, as well as to improve working practices in road transport activities. The law shall ensure that the conditions of work of drivers and other mobile workers carrying out road transport of loads and passengers are improved, and supervision of their work for road safety and supervision of the use of analogue and digital tachographs during the management of motor vehicles and drivers. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to ensure the correctness of tachographs, which is the basic assumption of the functioning of the establishment of a system of restrictions on the duration of driving and compulsory rest of drivers and mobile workers. Therefore, tachographs are periodically tested and calibrated, and in the Republic of Croatia this is every other year. In the case of regular periodic examination of tachographs, the correctness of the device speed limiter within the engine which restricts the speed of movement of the motor vehicle shall be checked and their performance shall be in accordance with the requester of the ECR 89. I do not think that in this law, it is a skillful and quality legal solution to limit the work of tachograph workshops exclusively on the locations listed in the permits, which is by no means improving or facilitating the operation of road carriers. This also enables a partially monopolistic lobby on the market because it is prescribed who and under what conditions, and where it can open a workshop for tachographs and by signing a contract, i.e. by regulating relations exclusively with the authorised representative of tachograph manufacturers in Croatia. In this way, the entrepreneurship freedoms of the tachograph workshop are limited and I also believe that there is a need to define the concept of abundant workshops that need to meet all criteria at least in terms of providing services both in islands and in more difficult areas. It is not necessary that, due to the inaccessibility of mobile workshops, additional financial burdens are borne by carriers who are now quite unfavourable market conditions in an uninvited position, given the increase in fuel prices, the lack of drivers and certain other relevant circumstances, such provisions increase the overall cost of their business and make it difficult to work on the final addressees of this law. In addition to these shortcomings, which relate exclusively to the regulation of the maintenance of tachographs and which I hope will significantly improve until the second reading, the law has achieved an unequivocally improving working conditions of drivers and other mobile workers carrying out road transport of freight and passengers, and the control of their work has been introduced, and further harmonisation with the EU acquis in the field of social conditions for mobile workers in carrying out road transport activities is achieved by adopting this law. The issue of safety in public transport and transport of goods and passengers has always been of paramount importance, and we welcome the editing and promotion of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117344	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, he's going to speak to the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117345	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport. The Working Time Act, mandatory breaks of mobile workers and road transport recording devices shall contain provisions governing working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers, driving time, driving interruptions and documentation, then methods and conditions of obtaining a permit for workshops, memory cards and conditions for issuing them, procedures and verifications, official records, supervision and inspection, liability and misdemeanour provisions. The most recent changes and additions took place in 2017. The law improves the working conditions of drivers and other mobile workers, introducing control of their work for road safety through the use of analogue and digital tachographs during motor vehicle management. In this regard, it is a specific sector which is characterised by the high mobility of workers, which required further regulation of the position and conditions of the driver in international transport in order to prevent different treatment in the Member States, but also to ensure fairer compensation for drivers. The bill proposes defining new concepts, prescribing specific rules on driver reference, regulating how information is exchanged bilaterally through the Internal Market Information System and making it clearer to prescribe infringements. As I said at the outset, the law achieves further harmonisation with the EU acquis. We can see from the proposed law that the law establishes a safer, more efficient and socially responsible road transport sector. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure adequate working conditions and social protection for drivers, as well as appropriate conditions of business of fair competition for road operators. Furthermore, this law prescribes specific rules, control measures for drivers applicable to undertakings established in a Member State that take a transnational measure as well as drivers employed in those undertakings. This measure implies a situation where a company in a Member State is directing its drivers in the territory of a Member State on the basis of a contract concluded between undertakings which are referred to and the service provider in that Member State, provided that there is, of course, a working relationship between the undertakings carrying out the driver’s reference. For international transport of goods and passengers, a new provision stipulating the obligation to record the time of crossover of national borders differs depending on the type of tachograph the vehicle has installed. Transporters are obliged to meet certain administrative requirements before posting workers, declarations shall be made through the information system to the national competent authorities of the Member State to which the driver is addressed. Money amounts of penalties have also been increased to respect the legal system, but of course to prevent abuses and manipulations. Finally, taking into account the introduction of the euro as an official currency, both the infringement provisions and the currency of the euro are prescribed. And to conclude, this law regulates general provisions, instruments for harmonising specific rules on driver reference, bilateral exchange of information through the information system and infringing provisions. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget. As the law goes towards the protection of workers in road transport, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117346	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Marina Opačak Bilic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117347	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The law we are just discussing has passed the debate on three parliamentary committees, so the standard Committee on Legislatives, then the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, as it refers to the regulation of specific rules on driver reference. on the duty of the carrier established in another Member State. The amendments also refer to the driver’s duty to manually record data on the crossing of a state border or a third country and to regulate the way in which the information is exchanged through the information system through which the carrier providing the driver with a declaration to the national competent authorities of the Member State referred to by the driver and the proposal for a law in that sense received unanimous support from that committee. The draft law also discusses on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure on which it has not received support, which tells us that not all the questions in the bill are well-set, and we hope and believe that the second reading will be precisely the proposals relating to the part with tachographs, i.e. With the removal of mobile workshops, it will be accepted and that a large number of comments from the interested public that have gone exactly in the direction of criticism that is going towards these changes, which point to market monopolisation. Therefore, this part of the rules on driving rules is undeniable, and when we talk about this second part of the proposed amendments, it should be said that in the context of the amendments to the law, it is presented that the law is to the greatest extent in line with EU directives. But if we read a little of the practices of other countries and the provisions that are being implemented in the EU, and looking at our practice so far, then we see that some newspapers are being introduced that are neither part of nor part of the obligations of the directives that we are harmonising, and I am thinking primarily of the concept of mobile workshops of tachograph tests that this proposal wants to abolish. As I said myself, Regulation 165/2014 therefore does not prohibit the EU Regulation on tachographs, and it is therefore necessary to stress that the implementation of such a decision will limit the entrepreneurship freedom of workshops for tachographs, and the conditions of easier and more accessible provision of such services to our carriers, especially those on the islands. It is not clear the idea of abolishing this model that has been very useful, especially for island carriers, and it should also be said that such a model and such a practice of mobile testing are being used uninterrupted in most EU countries because it is seen exclusively that the job is professionally done, regardless of the place of examination. So practice is such that it does not matter where the tachographs were examined but only as the examination was carried out, so the Republic of Croatia has worked so far, i.e. It had this model and in this regard there were no negative effects, and moreover, it made it easier for carriers to operate because they could use such an entirely acceptable service. Following this and looking at the practices of other EU countries, if this proposal is accepted, we will be the only country with such a provision. Therefore, this issue in terms of abolishing the ability to perform a mobile examination, i.e. inspecting and testing on the ground, we find it unacceptable, especially if we know that most carriers in their premises, as well as all commercial vehicle services where mobile tests have been conducted so far, meet absolutely all the conditions for safe operation and there is no need for additional financial burden on carriers and I will repeat, especially those who, due to the inaccessibility of the local workshop, when talking about islands, have to send vehicles by ferry to the mainland only because of the need for tachographs. The Social Democrats Club believes that by limiting the work of tachograph workshops exclusively in the location of the permit, it makes it difficult for business and for those who provide services and road transporters, which is absolutely unnecessary when talking about carriers, even in good times for this sector, and even more so, it is unnecessary today when carriers meet high fuel prices, labour shortages, and when many are ahead of collapse and it is really unnecessary to increase their overall business costs and make it difficult to work. Instead of discharging the carrier from various administrative obligations, such a provision imposes additional obligations on them and reduces their competitiveness. We undoubtedly hold that mobile examination of tachographs does not affect traffic safety but facilitates work because it has so far been performed in locations that meet the same conditions as the workshop itself. Furthermore, we would like to emphasise that we are against the proposed amendments concerning the increase in penalties, i.e. to increase the infringement provisions and we believe that they should not be raised, and moreover, the penalties are still quite high and it is necessary to relieve the carriers of various financial charges, especially in these cases, lead times, rather than additionally burdening them with high penalties. I will also take advantage of this opportunity and look at the question of the rules on working time and mandatory vacations of mobile workers, in this case the driver, any truck, any bus, which are even, whether it's about drivers driving international routes, international tours, or those carrying out local lineage or some kind of loco ride, delivery rides related to short routes. It is clear, for example, that the driver from Croatia takes a trip to Belgium must have the maximum driving time, the time of the provision, and it is clear that such provisions must be strictly applied and respected, in order to actually achieve both traffic safety and workers' rights, but we leave here, as an open question, to consider whether these same rules should be applied when it comes to, the same rules of driving and rest apply when it comes to short relations and local driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117348	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Darko Saturday will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117349	Dear colleagues and colleagues, related to this draft law amending and supplementing the law, the applicable law contains provisions governing working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and drivers in road transport, driving times, driving time, driving interruption, documentation, manner, conditions, procedure for obtaining permits for tachograph workshops and memory cards and conditions for their issue, procedures for the control of competent authorities, official records and infringement provisions. In the context of the so-called the mobility package, the EC has initiated changes to sectoral social legislation in road transport activities, important for the protection of driver's working conditions and to prevent distortions of fair competition. As well as drivers carrying out international road transport of cargo and passengers, if the conditions are met, they may be considered to be directed workers. Since it is a specific sector characterised by the high mobility of workers, it was necessary to further regulate the position and conditions of driver in international transport in order to prevent different treatment in Member States and ensure fair compensation for drivers. According to this Act and the proposal for a law, the obligation of a carrier established in the Republic of Croatia or another Member State to make a statement on the driver’s reference through the internal market information system in a multilingual form to the competent authorities of the Member State or the Member State in which it is addressed shall be introduced. The law provides for an exemption from the derogation from the submission of a declaration of carriage of goods and passengers in bilateral and transit transport. Among other things, this proposal also provides for the keeping of records within the central information system for the collection, storage, processing and storage of tachograph data in relation to facts, workshops carrying out tasks related to tachographs. Furthermore, the public authority of issuing the cards under the draft law in question has been extended in a way that now includes the role of the national certification body and ensures the integration and exchange of data from the records and registers in the field of road transport. This proposal also further regulates part of the infringement provisions and aligns with the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to use the double regulation model of infringements, fines shown in kunas and in euro, fines in euro will be in force from the day of introduction of the euro. As the State Secretary made public consultation with the interested public during the period from 4 April to 4 May of this year. On the very request of the Croatian Employers' Association, the Secretary of State has actually presented the facts to which they have made observations, but it has also given clear answers to how these provisions are in fact and their observations and relations. The HDZ Club will accept this proposal, draft amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road transport recording devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-05-0.u117350	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow, Wednesday 6 July at 9:30. The first accurate will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture, second reading, P.Z. No. 274. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 13.53 p.m. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Nevenko Barbaric, will speak.
