ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101011	Comrade Grmoi, thank you, thank you very much, fellow Grmoi thank you very much you have missed your time, thank you very much. This will be a debate here, here in this hall you'll all have opportunities, we'll all have opportunities to discuss it. There's gonna be a debate here. So I don't see what the problem is, you're going to be able to expose your position that you've now had very short time to expose, you're going to be able to expose it for long and wide, you're going to argue, etc., so we're going to have a debate about it, right? And this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up about it, right? This is, therefore, respected representatives and MPs pursuant to Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Justice Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to conduct a joint debate on the points 1 and 2 of the agenda foreseen for today, these are: - Report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2020 and - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2020 Are you agreeing to unite them? Yes, it is. Thank you. No, and the question no, is it just whether you agree or not? Yes, please, in that case, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101012	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Allow me to, on behalf of not only the Homeland Movement, but I assume both all MPs and MPs only make a proposal that, since the debate is a 15-minute discussion of the presentation of the club representatives of the permit in a time period of 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101013	I don't see any problem if other colleagues agree and think it's necessary. Personally, I don't think it's necessary, but if other colleagues think it's necessary to discuss it so long and wide. ... Well, we tend to when the points of such a character require a little wider discussion, but okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here he is, since, are you all okay with that? Yeah, great, then on behalf of the clubs we'll talk for 15 minutes. So, since this is not here, I'm saying that we're going to have a united debate on these points, and the clubs are going to talk like we said for 15 minutes. The applicant of these reports shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 4. Probation Act and Article 9. Laws on law enforcement. It's an argument, a prison, a pardon. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. If the applicant wants to give an additional explanation, yes, we have a request for a break, a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101014	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia, I am looking for a break of at least 10 minutes for reasons because I think it is very important today to say that this report is completely incorrect and not in accordance with the rules made, so it is missing. First of all, I'm going to look back at the employee section, so when employees of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and centres of the prison system administration and we're missing as much as 1,000 in our system, you won't find much in this report, and that's an extremely serious problem. On the other hand, in the trial report, we lack data on funding, so we are talking about projects, but you have no record of how money was spent, you do not have the same part that talks about associations that were in collaboration with the probation office, so we do not know how these associations were selected, there are no data on how they were used, so in which way they were financed, in which amounts, there are no data on the sources of funding of the projects that you mention, they gave direct candidates, the office with its projects directly ran to European funds or through the implementation of our national authorities. There is also a lack of data on work and inter-resorship cooperation with other bodies, social care centres, health institutions, educational institutions and the like. I find such a report totally unacceptable, and I feel that I have been obliged to warn this problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101015	Thank you very much. Of course I'll grant you a break. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. we will continue to work, so as I said, would the rapporteur, the applicant's representative, want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101016	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. In front of you is the report on the work and state of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and centres for 2020, as well as the report on the work of the probation service for 2020. What I can say for both of you is that, as you know, it's 2020. It was a challenging year for all of us at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and so on in the prison system and probation system, and it's about the covida-19 pandemic. We are in the prison system, which is the most important for you HS representatives to maintain the state of security at the highest level, and we have entrusted us with the tasks provided by these two laws, and we have also ensured that this pandemic of covida-19 does not spread so much in the prison system because we have to make sure that more than 3,000, almost 4,000 people in the system, so it was necessary to keep this system safe and healthy for those who support the prison sentence as well as for those of our employees who are employed in the prison system and I can say here that in 2020, as in the years of '21, and this day we have dealt well with it. As far as 2020 is concerned, 11,607 prisoners were present in the prison system and probation administrations. The sentence of prison held by adult persons who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 4.291 persons, the sentence of prison carried out by adult persons who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 415 or another court proceedings is the sentence of imprisonment which has been replaced, replaced and fined 120, and criminally... 1554. Penalty of 20 persons in juvenile prison, an educational measure of reference to an educational institution given to juvenile perpetrators of criminal acts 97, and measures of an investigative prison 5.110 persons. As far as investigative prison is concerned, there is a lot of controversy about it, so about 50 to 60% of the people who support prison sentences refer to investigative prison. As such, the investigation prison is in the jurisdiction of the courts or judges, so the Ministry of Justice and the Administration of the Prison System has no authority to do so in view of our capacity in the prison system as far as the person will be found in an investigation prison, the court decides in the proceedings conducted by judges in various criminal proceedings. So as far as the public defender's report on the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons in the prison system is concerned, we can say that in view of our capacities, we are trying to increase this in these years, or in 2021, and those that today, we are saying that capacities are increasing because it is true that at some point more prisoners are found in the prison system than our capacities are, but therefore the court decides. We are trying to ensure that these fundamental human rights, health conditions and all that we can provide for people in the investigative prison are at the highest level, respecting legal standards, but what would be some kind of European norm about 4 square meters per person is not possible at some point, even though I say health status, security status, everything is at the level at which it can be tolerated. As regards juvenile prison in 2020, There were 19 prisoners and one inmate on the execution of a juvenile prison sentence. In minors, crimes against property are dominated by 60%, crimes against life and the body 30%, and acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of children 10%, the highest age of 45.45% has a sentence between one and 3.g. As regards minors in the 2020 investigative prison, In all, 45 minors and 6 minors were in prison of investigation. The most reprehensible are crimes against property, robbery, and theft. The average time of stay of a minor in an investigative prison was one month and 24 days. Relation of the number of prisoners to a judicial police officer on 31 December 2020 It is 2.30 prisoners to one judicial police officer, however, taking into account the calculation of the relationship only of those crimes in which the insurance department is set up, the relationship is somewhat more favourable, which is 2.2 prisoners to one judicial police officer. So we're aware of our officers' need to fill in considering the number of prisoners. We're around 70 new people in the justice police system and we're trying, so we've changed the Penal Code to... a cop before it was an age limit of 25 years that we've now raised to 30 years. As far as the financial report is concerned, revenues from the competent budget for the financing of regular activity are 512 million 344 thousand kuna, their own revenues are 30 million 061 thousand kuna. What you need to know is that we are in the prison system conducting different treatments for our prisoners, one of the treatments is that so-called. Work therapy. These own incomes of our own are a lot of prisoners in the prison system if they want to do certain jobs, according to their capabilities and what they might be doing, they're paid for that job and it counts as working therapy within the prison system. The prison system what we are incomeing is large agricultural holdings and products that we produce are all used to feed prisoners in our prison system, so in this report you see that this is an income of 30 million kuna. As for the difference between income and expenditure, that's 7 million 406 thousand kuna. As far as the report on the work of the probation service is concerned, this is the report on the work of the prison, the penitentiary, the educational institutions are being delivered to the probation service. Probation service is one of our most important services. The Croatian Prosecution Service today plays an important role within the Croatian criminal justice system, achieves co-operation and acts on the demands of state lawyers, courts, judges, courts, penitentiaries and prisons by providing the necessary information in the decision-making process by carrying out sanctions on measures in the community. We have a central office in Zagreb and 14 probation offices, which enables you to carry out probation work for the entire country. As regards the items received in 2020 39.18% of the cases received relate to the preparation of the report at the request of the judge of enforcement, 23.76% of the cases refer to the work of the general good, 12.18% of the cases on parole, 12.84% of the cases on probation with protective supervision, 4.75% of the enforcement of obligations under the resolution of the state attorney, 3.12% of the execution of a partial sentence with protective supervision of a special mandatory security measure. As far as the probation service is concerned, we have 104 employees, and of which 12 officials in the central office, 92 in probation offices, and 14 heads in the probation offices are involved. As for hours of work in 2020. A total of 410.837 hours have been done for general good in hospitals, Caritas, companies of the Croatian Red Cross, municipal enterprises and other institutions with which the probation service has a contract. As you know this year 2020, because of the epidemiological reasons, there has been a change in the termination of some contracts, we have not been able to fully carry out our tasks as a probation service. The Croatian Prosecution Service last year celebrated 10 years of its work and we can say that it is one of the most important institutions when it comes to these systems where persons who come with these mild sentences of prison are rehabilitated and return to normal life in the community in view of the actions they have committed. As regards the financial resources for the normal functioning of the probation service during 2020, A total of 15 million 355 thousand 788 kuna were spent, most of which were spent on the salaries of our officials. So we propose to HS that prison system and probation services report for 2020. Take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101017	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First respected representative of Mazer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101018	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State. Here you yourself have said that as far as investigative prisons are concerned, or the capacity for the judge to execute and make decisions of the court are, in a way, related to the charge of investigative prisons. On the other hand, we have seen that at present in the process of public procurement of electronic bracelets, if I have seen well about 200 pieces, I am also referring to the provisions of the Penal Code which prescribe and enforce the sentence in the home. Since we have legal acts, regulations, and in some ways it does not apply, can you say something about that part, and is there any possibility that it might release capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101019	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101020	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Ministry of Justice and Administration therefore that is correct, we are now in the process of completing public procurement for the first set of 200 electronic surveillance bracelets. It's primarily like I said in the report on a large number of investigating prisoners about 60% in the prison system. Not every investigative prison is suitable for maintenance in its own home, some crimes are such that it must be in an investigative prison, however, there is a lot that could do so. Therefore, there are certain legal rules in the Criminal Procedure Act, as far as the prison is concerned, it is also necessary to pass that detention of prisons in your own home. We are now in the process of completing this procurement and I believe we will during 2022. It's got to be. As for maintaining a prison sentence right in the house, we're going to lay down regulations during this year, and I believe that those provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act will begin to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101021	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101022	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the report, you stated that the largest increase in individual crimes in the investigating prison is a crime of threat and that it is in fact almost 22% increase, compared to 2019. 25%. Now I'm curious about this large percentage of the crime in the prison of investigation that you've analyzed these crimes, in fact, who's threatening, are these threats to journalists, politicians or any other threats? If they're journalists, then we're in big trouble as a demographic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101023	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101024	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now maybe that's your personal conclusion. As regards the prison of investigation and the measures taken in accordance with the positive rules of law in the criminal sphere, you know that this is not decided by the Ministry of Justice and Administration but decided by the court, so the determination of the measure of the criminal prison is in the hands of the judge when it comes to various criminal acts and thus the criminal offence of the threat. So we're statisticalally leading this to what, what are the crimes for the persons found in the prison system, but the assessment of the court is whether, in a specific case, it is necessary to determine the measure of the prison investigation. So I don't think that's specific about one category of people who's been threatened. These are various individuals, various crimes in the sphere of public life. So it's not just about the press, it's about everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101025	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101026	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned, and it is evident from the report that the number of judicial officers at the end of 2020 was 1.551 and that the situation was satisfactory, given that a judicial police officer comes in 2.3 or 2.2 of the prisoners depending on the calculation. And it is also said that almost 28% of the systematic jobs are unfulfilled and that there are vacant jobs making it difficult for employees to carry out their regular jobs in the execution of prison sentences. Now what are the jobs where there are the most missing workers, can they be filled and whether the situation may be better now than it was when you submitted the report for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101027	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101028	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is about the largest number of lacks of judicial police in the prison system. So these are the people who are in direct contact with the prisoners, the people who support the prison sentence. We're somewhere a year filling up about 70 people who are employed in the prison justice system. I said we raised that age of life that it could be 30 years of life. It's very difficult for us, so a lot of people in the public tender, but they have to meet certain conditions. What's good and what I can say today refers to in 2022, with me here is the director of the Department of Prison System and Prosecution, we are returning that high school to the judicial police we have in collaboration with the MUP. It is our duty and duty to educate new personnel, young people to enter the prison system. Like the Croatian police, they are entrusted with a special task of taking care of people who are on this side of the law, but still have a normal life after that. So we're working on as much as we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101029	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101030	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, we can see that the problem and the probation offices, and what is the problem in Croatia, I think, is a very big problem in the Varazdin County or the alarm can even say in Varazdin and Međimurje County, and the probation office in Varazdin is one of the offices with the largest number of convicts that only four employees care about. We see from the report that 391 of this item has been received, which turns out to be 4 officers of 97 items, and the average in Croatia is 57 items per employee, so I ask you nicely what the problem is. I know the problem is that it's not easy to find employees because it's a very difficult job because you're in the field, and it depends on your opinion whether you're going to be released or extended to prison, so I'm asking you what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101031	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101032	Thank you well-respected MPs it is your connected system as well as what I have just responded to by the MPs. So we try to increase that number of people, our employees from year to year, following the number of cases. You know that we are limited by the total financial resources related to the prison system or prison system and probation and in general to the Ministry of Justice and Administration. So we're trying to get as many people into the system as possible, but it's done on an annual basis. The situation has changed a lot since 2020. I can say that the probation service also has certain resources that we receive from our international cooperation and projects. Most of the Norwegian financial mechanism. We've done a lot, we're aware of the need to hire people, but here I'm saying it's a connected system that applies to both the prison system and the probation system, and today the situation is much better than it is in this report for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101033	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101034	The Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, is a trial of the conduct of persons who are at risk after giving a criminal measure or leaving a closed-type institution, so probation is a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of a crime. What is the percentage of those who repeat crimes, re-regisist, how to prevent it? Do you, after repeating the crime of the same or other, increase the sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101035	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101036	... Your Honored representative, what you said and in the supervisory departments and the court when a person gets a chance to go on parole, early parole, which is what the court decides, so those persons are not released so that they do what they want, they are under surveillance, if they therefore deviate from the rules relating to what you said they are returning to prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a large number of people who are relapsers, but there are. So the system in which we all work is like life. So different people go in. Not every prison is equal to a prison, not every prisoner is the same prisoner, and not every person entering the digestive system is the same person. So we're trying to rehabilitate in that general system of persons, to understand what they've done to get them back to life. However, you have a certain percentage of people who have been in the prison system for many years and can say live freely in that system. So it's a rule unfortunately, but here's our duty to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and try to re-raise people, but sometimes it's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101037	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101038	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Thus, the Social Care Act lays down obstacles to working in social care activities. On the basis of the same, it is stated that in social care, work cannot be carried out by a person who has previously been legally convicted of those taxful offences provided for in the criminal law itself, and at the same time these persons determine our work for the common good and in homes for the elderly and the powerless, and then in hospitals, in centres for education and education. How is that acceptable to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101039	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101040	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I don't know that these people are doing their work for the greater good in the way you said. So, when the work for the general good is determined, it is not so casual and memorized, so there are special services, and commissions that decide what kind of person can go when determining the work for the general good, where the work for the general good is done. It's not just that someone's being sent off the list. A lot of this is being checked and there are professional services that take care of how it is carried out. So you know that executive power doesn't have much influence on that. It is the court's decision when it comes to such punishment, and our officers in the probation service are therefore taking care of where a person can go and where he must go. And you must know that this independence of the judicial authority and the court in the ruling is not in the hands of the executive authority, but of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101041	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101042	In Croatia, we have thousands of valuable, capable and educated persons who are either unemployed or inadequately engaged and have no compromised past. They're not needed by your ministry. You still get people out of retirement who have a southern batin history such as a certain Jure Zulj, a man who had to leave your ministry following the 2014 affair. But in 2021, he was reactivated from retirement and returned to the Department of Justice, and that's right in the Department of the Prison System. The Zulj, of course, has no references from Denmark or Austria, but from the South-Communist prison regime. Considering that your Secretary of State Juro Martinović has learned the law in the JNA system, the question is what are your criteria so that someone in 2022 could be a factor in the Croatian judiciary which Croatian and relevant European institutions consider to be the main culprit for all Croatian problems. Is it a prerequisite for a war in the judicial system that a person worked in UDBA, KOS, Securitate, HGB or Stazi? Why do you hire compromised pensioners, not educated professionals at a working age?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101043	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101044	Thank you very much, Vice President. What can I tell you? If we were to see who was born in the former Yugoslavia, in the former South, who had completed a school, where we would have a problem. No, I'm with myself, I'm with everyone. We in the prison system have great experts. What you're mentioning are certain names I wouldn't comment on. I think people who work in the prison system, penitentiaries, educational institutions, probation service deserve a lot more than criticism when you come back, when I'm standing here, the principal has nothing to do with anything. I think we need people doing hard work, raising people who break the law to praise, and now you're one of the 12100 employees at the Department of Justice and Administration who are being targeted for your political worldview, not for reading this report at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101045	Dear MP Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101046	Article 238, but also an article that indicates that the Croatian Parliament must function in such a way that the Croatian Government responds to the Croatian Parliament, and you do not do so now. You also disrespect Croatian citizens by saying that I draw two examples because I only have one minute of talking about my political views and who he is when and where he was born. That's not what I was talking about. I'm talking about the Croatian judiciary being a cancer of the early Croatian society, and you generate JNA lawyers and people from totalitarian systems about this judiciary. And you can be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101047	Okay. Unfortunately, it was a replica, and unfortunately you also have to get a warning. Honored representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101048	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I'd like to go back to the job fill. The fact that this report in 2020 lacks 1,000 people. My colleague asked what the profiles were. You mentioned the lack of judicial police, so you can't write inside that the number of employees is satisfactory. So please fill out what other employee profiles are missing, as is the situation at the prison hospital as far as medical personnel are concerned, what are the salaries, what is the coverage. And if you still arrive, what are the standards in other countries regarding the number of prisoners on the prisoners of the judicial police. There's 2.3 to 1. How's it going in other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101049	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101050	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, of course, that standards are different given the size of the state, to the number of the population. We're about in the prison system I said between 11 and 12,000 people who end up in the prison system for one year. The most we're missing is the judicial police, the different people who work in treatment. As far as the prison hospital is concerned, the prison hospital is our specific hospital. She should be more like a psychiatric hospital. That's where people come in with problems like that. We've raised that level of prison every year a little more than we did in the previous years. You saw when we had that discussion, that prison hospital was connected to this health ministry system for CESH. So, we're trying to hire people who fill out the prison hospital system. Because what's our problem is that the salaries at the prison hospital versus the other hospitals are much less. Now we want to even it out. Doctors don't come to us very well. That's our problem. Now we're trying, so up to the level and the others to fill it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101051	Thank you. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101052	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Salapic, here's a little quote, we'll hear the whole thing later. I'm a prison guard after adding to the 30% internship and bonus on the terms of work with all benefits and overtime on average every month I receive a salary of 6 and a half thousand kuna. My question last year, at the end of last year, you attended a meeting that discussed the lack of personnel and the age of employees in the prison system, the filling of jobs in the same system was slightly less than 72%. So here's to ask you about a subject that's very current when, or what it's all about, the rights of judicial officers are equal to the police that are under the Ministry of the Interior, because you know it's a very important topic for the judicial police. Thank you for their response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101053	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101054	Thank you very much. We esteemed MPs are constantly working to improve the rights of our officers and employees in the prison system, especially the judicial police, because it is true that these people are in the most difficult situation in this system in direct contact with different types of people who serve prison sentences. We have a lot of good cooperation with the unions of the judicial police, there are more of them, it's not just one but three. The wages are on average like that when you take on duty, it's a little more. So, what is our goal in the future is that the judicial police of the prison system and the judicial police to ensure that judicial authorities are evened into one and continuously working to increase these salaries to people in the system according to our financial opportunities. It's going to be, we can't do it overnight, but here's what I believe is the door for cooperation and conversation, and these people are really the hardest, and we're going to try to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101055	Dear Representative Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101056	The esteemed chairman and secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I am pleased to have a united debate on these two points of the report on both the state of work of the penitentiary and the work of the probation service that I think is clearly and unequivocally pointing to the reality that is happening in Croatian society. However, I would like to point out one very important thing, which is that the probationary service has a purpose among other things and a certain development of local communities, and I know that they are deployed throughout Croatia, but we would like to ask you to explain a little if there is a certain dynamic of further development of these probation services throughout Croatia and that part concerning the filling of systematicised jobs both in the penitentiary offices and other institutions that take care of the prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101057	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101058	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As I said in the replicas before our obligation is therefore both desire and need to fill this system annually as much as possible given the number of systematicised jobs. I said about 70 people come into the system about a year, some of them retire. We have now passed a certain rule where people who are entitled to that pension are released with certain legal means one is an age pension under special conditions to fill people, people in the so-called system. rejuvenation of the system. And as for the probation offices, we make sure they're represented really territorially, that's important to us. We've had problems this year that we're discussing in 2020, including '21. Partly is there some things we couldn't do with the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, now it's better and I believe here that all together and here is the principal with me, we're making sure that it's available on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that's very important and I think that, I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101059	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101060	Well, here's the report again, and we've seen that certain perpetrators of serious crimes express their work for the greater good, the probation service participates in this, etc., but it's shocking that this work for the general good was actually spoken by the court in 2020 in 14 cases for the perpetrators of serious crimes against sexual freedom and child abuse, against family, marriage, youth, against public order, against life and body 69 cases. So this criminal policy is too mild for us, there's no dispute here, but let me know if that's how it all affects renaissance, if you can in the short lines, what kind of recoverys are in, and if criminals are able to resocialize to some extent, who stays at the black bottom, and how do you treat them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101061	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101062	Ha, Your Honor, it's like you asked me to tell you who's a member of the bank and how long he's gonna be a member of some gang. It is from man to man, therefore, as far as the punishment for the work of the general good that you have mentioned is being decided by the court, it is not up to us, nor the trial, nor the prison system. When a man enters in one way or another, he goes to a parole or prison system it's a special team of experts primarily from psychologists, health staff who studied every person, every man who enters the system has, has what we would say the file, is followed by him when he enters, how he enters, what he needs to do, how everything will be done, what are his preferences and can we do anything of that man. Unfortunately, the rectivist always has, they're not in large numbers, we can't participate, the person gets the right to, for the weekend, so make a mess. It's not our fault that he went crazy at that point, so from man to man.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101063	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101064	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, on many occasions, colleagues and colleagues have referred to the number of judicial officers because we seem to find that figure quite alarming. What's even more worrying is that it's been a continuous number for several years from the report you can see, to assume it's not just this 3rd year. but before that. You mentioned that you were working to raise the border from 25 to 30, but that didn't happen, so you would beg for the Croatian public which you specifically, in particular, intend to do in order to increase the number of judicial officers from 70%, so let's go to 80 I think it would be 100% nice to ask you and to take into account your fellow Dretar also in response to the question of pay and pay of these prison officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101065	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101066	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I took into account Mr. Dretar's replica, and I answered him. As far as this is concerned, I don't know what you've just concluded that we've made a mistake since we were 25. 30 g. That it doesn't work, so today we're talking about the 2020 report, and today we're in 2022, it works. We've had a contest, we've got interested people coming into the contest, this system is being filled in in a way that people meet the conditions when they report to the competition. So it would be very ideal and good if we could get 100% of those who report to all of them, so we filter the same system. You know that a judicial officer with all these problems that Mr. Dretar said specific work and everything, when a man enters the system, not all honey and milk, we have problems, too, you understand. These are people who are in direct contact with the most difficult forms of criminal mileage, some are absolutely committed to their work, some are less committed to their work and we take care when the competitions are rejuvenationing the system that people are going in to us, it's also very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101067	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101068	Thank you. State Secretary Salapic, so far, has been talking about the lack of people working in the system, but the issue is also prison problems. In the chapter on the transfer of prisoners, it is said that the penitentiaries in Glina and the prison in Sisak were killed after the earthquake and the prisoners were transferred to other institutions. Personally, like my colleagues and colleagues, I had the opportunity to work on the principle of culture in the community and visit Lepoglava through the Turopolje Educational Institute, Lipovic can say that there are very, very modest conditions. What are the chances of restoring a quality prison in Clay, and what about the prison in Imotski where it's been spoken for years?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101069	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101070	As for the situation after the earthquake, Your Honor, I can say that thank God at that moment managed to preserve both the safety of people and the health and to save all the people who were at that moment there making prisoners of our employees. As for the prison in Clay, that building that was hit by an earthquake in the yard, we're going to take down and make a new one, so it's in the process. As far as other capacities are concerned, we are currently in the end of filling the capacity in Požega at 150 new places and in Lipovica at about 100 seats. We are aware of the situation, therefore, of the fact that the money from the NPOO's European funds is being invested in expanding the capacity of Zagreb's prisons, which is the most burdened prison. So, it's our continuing task and business doesn't go this overnight it's big assets and I believe that with this capacity increase and some alternative measures we're going to reduce the number of people directly in the prison system which improves the capacities that I just said around here especially Gline and Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101071	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have already talked in previous replicas in two, three times about readmission, and it is certainly a subject that often causes great public attention. I am interested in working with institutions, associations, colleges of consistent orientations, and it certainly helped to say that you have pointed out here on several occasions that it is not such a large number of relapsers. I think it would be good to continue working more intensively with these bodies through applications to various programs. And one question I'm curious about is, what about people who unfortunately spend their entire working life in a prison system, what do they expect later because they don't have the right to retire, are they just social cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101073	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101074	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And you yourself gave a partial answer to this last one, it's not a large number of people who are constantly in the prison system. Unfortunately, there is that in some small percentage, but it is not us who influences it, but no matter how hard you work for some people, there is nothing you can do. I haven't been able to tell you everything, there are numerous international projects, numerous collaborations with different ministries, associations regarding the resociation of man and the return of prison to normal life. Not all prisoners are grave criminals, there are people who have had car accidents with a fatal consequence, you have people who have committed certain acts out of nowhere, that's a different type of people. What is our interest in ensuring those safety, health, financial and other conditions. These experts who work in a system that I agree need to raise salaries and medical staff as well as psychologists are on the task of trying to bring these people back to normal life. It's hard sometimes, but in most cases when it comes to normal people, it's possible to do it, and we're working year after year, we have really good cooperation with bodies outside the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101075	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101076	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. If we look at data that speak of the type and number of criminal offences in the cases of conditional or partial sentence with protective supervision or special obligation or security measure, then we can see that of the total number of criminal offences that makes up 68 of them 362 criminal offences fall to crimes against marriage in families and children, which makes up more than 53% of total meals. Now, I believe that this is due to the amendment of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Criminal Code in which we have this HS has actually qualified domestic violence as a criminal offence, but we also see that, with conditional and partial probation besides protective supervision, the court may impose one or more security measures or special obligations. Can you tell what the most common security measures or specific obligations in cases of domestic violence are prescribed, provided for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101077	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101078	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now that you've read the statistical report, you've said what this is all about. So these security measures are decided by the court of course. As far as these crimes are concerned, we have made this legislative framework much better and stronger than we have ever had before and you have been in that system yourself, unfortunately this increase in domestic violence is quite large and this pandemic of the coronaryvirus in the years behind us has made its own. So, we're trying to follow this system well, it's not just the department of justice and the administration and the law that we've been discussing here, but it's the jurisdiction of the courts and the police. I think a big step has been made to protect such cases and that both the police and the court are far more concerned and thoughtful than they were before looking at these crimes. So protection is much greater both for families and children, and I believe that this solid legislative framework has put us in a position to protect such people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101079	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101080	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're saying here that we have 1371 contracted legal entities where we can perform the work for the common good and is that enough, do we have problems with referring to the work for the common good? Namely, why am I saying that? Because in institutions, public authorities have a really great responsibility when they are instructed in such contractual relations and for material resources, but also especially in health and social institutions for those who care. I have experience of my own that I have made sure that these are the most common traffic offences to protect my users, though, that we work together on it. So my question is, do we have good enough cooperation and generally for probation service in general one good interdepartmental cooperation? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101081	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101082	Thank you well-respected MPs, we have amongst the good, time inter-resorial cooperation, there have been some problems in these years due to the pandemic of the coronary virus some contracts unfortunately couldn't be executed, some things change, so not all institutions that get work for the general good equal... So there are certain needs to change, but we are satisfied with the overall state and number of entities with which we have contracts, we follow it constantly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is about a special service that follows it, and we also make sure that when a person goes to work for the common good, that it's not just a story that appears media, that there's got to work for the general good so nothing, that it's being followed, if a person breaks work for the general good, if by chance a legal entity breaks it or allows certain privileges for a person who goes to work for the general good, it's a punishment for each other. This person is going back to prison, and with this we're breaking up the contract and taking certain steps further. I mean, there's everything and everything, but in the global 98%, that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101083	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101084	At the beginning of your report, the esteemed secretary was written a mission of the Administration of the Prison System and a trial which states among other things that human treatment and respect for the dignity of a person who is in the execution of a prison sentence or the enforcement of an educational measure in a educational institution through clearly set goals, a secure working environment, motivated staff and cooperation with the local community and the organisation of civil society. The report lists a large number of data showing us the state of the prisoners. What about the part through clearly set goals, secure working environment and motivated staff? You have dedicated only 3 pages to your employees in this report that cannot be seen whether they are motivated, whether they have a safe working environment and what their salaries are. Do you think your employees are really motivated and are safe?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101085	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101086	I believe our prisoners, our employees are safe. First of all, you know that the general system of salaries is in the state service, so I can also say at the Ministry of Justice and Administration in line with the possibilities primarily of the state budget. We make sure that our employees are provided with whatever is legally our obligation. Of course those salaries should be more than anyone. I can't just say that we have high-quality employees in the probation service and in the prison system, employees of the prison system have a 20% salary supplement. So they have higher salaries than other employees of the Justice and Administration Ministry. Let's say one judicial officer with his duty and if he's working shifts, he can get to 10,000 kuna. So it's not just an indicative average salary that, as far as the probation service is concerned, we didn't get the impression that we have demoted people, but it's certainly a motivation of the obligations of all of us, and it's up to me and our employees and employees and officials to work to secure these people a higher salary. We can't say it's great and good, I can just say it can be better. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101087	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, you can return to your post, and would the representative of the Committee's rapporteur like to take his word? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will speak to the respected representative Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101088	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have a report on the work of the Prosecution Service and the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2020. We are constantly serving reports that are not from the previous year, and this practice should stop because there is no excessive reason not to respect Article 14(4). The law on probation, for example. which prescribes that the work of the probationary service is reported by the Croatian Parliament once a year and no later than 31 March for the previous year. The government submitted this test report for 2020 to the Croatian Parliament on 2 September 2021. So much for how much the government respects the laws itself. The Prosecution Act states that probational transactions are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and are carried out in order to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the crime, its, its resociation and reintegration into the community, having an impact on the risk factors associated with the conduct of the crime. The report states that a total of 3,497 new cases were received in the past year and 3,624 cases were completed. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 410.837 hours of work for the common good. During 2020, 1,371 legal persons were available in which work could be done for the common good. This emphasis on the numbering data is certainly good and indicates that the great effort of the probation service, but we as parliamentary representatives, and the general public would be interested in what trends are, whether just such experimental measures have affected positively the achievement of the purpose of the trial, which is as stated resociation and reintegration in the community influences the risk factors associated with the doing of the crime. Every time we read some numerical data, we have to ask ourselves why it is and what we can do to achieve the full purpose and purpose of the trial. There is a lack of analysis of the measures implemented and their effects and impact comparatively with previous years. We also do not have the conclusions that would list suggestions for improving those procedures of the probation service that did not produce the desired results. In 2020, it was marked with the pandemic Covida-19 and the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb, in which there was a severe damage to the area in which the trial office in Zagreb was located until then, at Tomislav Square 17 in Zagreb. It is good to have managed to find a replacement space for the purpose of the earthquake of a destroyed probationary office in Zagreb 1 that was temporarily moved to Zagreb's business office and that a new space was provided for the purposes of testing in Požega owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is good that we can, with the state budget of probationary jobs, also finance through projects such as strengthening the protection of human rights and public security through improving the capacity of the probation service financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021. It is said that the Croatian Prosecution Service places the same emphasis on social integration and the perpetrators of the crime and on the protection of the community. Of the 2826 people for whom data on earlier punishment was collected, 26.22% were previously convicted in criminal proceedings 22.0% were previously under the supervision of the probation service. It is not a small percentage of relapsers and should find a way to reduce that number by taking certain measures within the probation service, whether they are educational, working occupation, psychological or other measures should be designed. Although sometimes when we see cruelty to victims when committing crimes, especially to children and other vulnerable groups, we prefer to reach out for the same response to the perpetrator, we must remember that we are in art. 3. The law on the execution of a prison sentence prescribed that the main purpose of the execution of a prison with human treatment and respect for the dignity of a person who is in prison, his training for life at large in accordance with the law and social rules which contributes to the protection of the social community. Making a report for a judge is the most represented probation work and accounts for a total of 39.18% of all cases received in 2020, of the total number of 1370 reports for the judge of execution 84.7% related to the percentage of the approval of the terms of discharge and 15.2 is related to the procedure of granting the closure of the prison sentence. Prison penitentiary reports in 96.4% of cases are related to the approval of conveniences. When we talk about parole, the public usually reacts negatively to the approval of parole and approval of the benefits of those prisoners who have committed a criminal offence that has shaken the public because of their cruelty to the victim, such as the Daruvarac case. 3.5 years after the terrible crime that rocked Zadar and Croatia, the Daruvarac case came back before the public's light even though it was primarily sentenced to five years, the verdict was changed to four, and it takes 3.5 years, now it is now up to the end of the third year of its stay in the Penitentiary in Glina due to good conduct and guaranteed work on parole. It would be good for the secretary of state to explain to us what this is really about, because it is suggested that the disputed judicial officer who is related to family ties in the prison system administration has "set it down" and the Dravar of excellent evaluations on the basis of which he received consent for parole from the Glina Penitentiary Authority. If these are merely malicious speculations because she is still employed as a judicial officer, it should be made clear, but it would be good if the suspicion of nepotism were not exceeded by the probationary service. When we talk about the work for the general good, the largest number of works for the general good was received by the Probation Office in Zagreb, Zagreb 1, the Probation Office Varazdin, and the Probation Office in Sisak 6.9%. During 2020 convicts worked for general good in hospitals, institutions for mentalally ill persons, homes for elderly and powerless, centres for education and education, rehabilitation centres, city and municipal societies of the Red Cross, Caritas, schools, kindergartens, museums, libraries, etc. It would be interesting to find out what the working skills and abilities of the perpetrators of the crimes of former politicians and local officials on the basis of which they are determined to do certain work for the general good and what are mostly jobs other than peeling potatoes that we could have done as was the case with Mr. Cobankovic. It is commendable that during 2020, the Prosecution Service extended its cooperation to another 34 new legal persons who can perform work for the common good. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Why it was replaced by a prison sentence is not indicated, and it would be interesting to know. It is good that the Office for Electronic Control shall start tendering for the rental of electronic surveillance equipment in order to be able to monitor in accordance with Article. 169. The law on the execution of a prison sentence and the Regulation on the conditional release of electronic surveillance when the way in which the electronic supervision is carried out during the execution of the parole, with which a special obligation to prohibit leaving the home during a certain period of time has been imposed. There is a clear need for continued education of probationary officers and in any case we support the strengthening of professional competences through continuous education of probationary officials. When we talk about the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2020, it should again be pointed out that in its report for 2020, the attorney general said that although it has been indicated for years that the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the legal resources was often addressed to her by prisoners because of inadequate treatment under complaints filed by the Central Office of the prison system administration and probation. She stated that their answers were templated, and in some cases she found that the content of the two exact same sentences was not found to suggest a violation of the right. The prisoners also addressed her with allegations that other prisoners were threatening them and were exposed to physical, psychological, and sexual violence. It is rare for particularly vulnerable groups such as members of national minorities, most often the Roma community, especially those with intellectual difficulties or those they call their friends. In addition to the epidemic, the prison system also faced earthquakes while the earthquake that hit Zagreb in March damaged only the building of a prison hospital where there was minor material damage, a devastating earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County significantly damaged the prison in Sisak and Penitentiary in Glina. Because of the covida-19 pandemic in most of the criminal bodies, prisoners, regardless of their status, spent most of their time in their rooms without joint group activities. The additional problem of the Glina Penitentiary is the lack of officials despite the temporary transfer of parts of the prison officers to Sisak, for example, the treatment group of 40-45 prisoners, which prevents any teamwork. On 31 December 2020, In the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and centres, a total of 3,558 systematic jobs were filled, and 2.558 was filled, which is 71.89%, which is unsatisfactory. Law enforcement officers are a special story, they're in the system 1.560, and they're 20% missing. On 31.12.2020. 2.2 prisoners are on one judicial officer, which is also an unsatisfactory percentage. It is therefore necessary to take into account the planning and employment of new judicial police officers, and in particular taking into account the fact of the time needed to train them to carry out their own tasks and official tasks. Salaries range from 5 and 5 and a half thousand for medium gear, with a height of 6.5 to 7.5, with a high 10 thousand kuna, of course there are mentions of accessories and overtime. In any case, in the next admission plan, we suggest that the fill-up of judicial officers be optimal so that they can carry out their tasks without additional burden on psychophysical health is, regardless of the pay additions, that work leaves a mark on psychophysical health. In view of the fact that the lack of adequate support after release from prison is one of the most significant risk factors for the criminal return of the prison system administration and testing has intensified cooperation with competent institutions and civil society organisations in the organisation of post-penal reception and the provision of assistance after layoff, which is a very good practice and needs to be intensified as much as possible. Finally, the Social Democrats' Club will support both reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101089	In the name of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101090	The Honorable Chairman, state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, according to the definition of probation, there is a conditional and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences during which probation officers conduct procedures aimed at resociating convicts, reducing the risk of committing a new criminal offence, and protecting the social community. This definition clearly shows the activity of the probation service, which is working with the perpetrators of criminal offences, who carry out their sanctions or the rest of it on the loose, work for the common good, then conditional discharge, different alternative sanctions, conditional freedoms are just some of the concepts that are related in the Republic of Croatia to the word probation. They describe in their own way only part of what the trial is about, but the trial is much wider and much more comprehensive than the above. That is why I am concerned to learn that this report is drawn up on only 26 pages including all charts, tables, images that are not missing in the report. The development of an international integration society and past experience in prison punishment have led to the need to reconsider the purpose of the prison sentence. The collected data on the relapse rate were defeated for each judicial system that conducted such an examination. The overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary, penal pulsism, while increasing the number of crimes committed has long formed a vicious circle of society, justice and punishment. They did not have a number of experts agree with the the thesis that prisons are their own criminal colleges, and as such they do not serve their purpose at all, and the prison only deepens the social and psychological gap between prisoners and society or the environment. The inability to adapt former prisoners and the carelessness of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation society according to generally accepted norms also generated a significant increase in criminal relapse. In addition, when the economic default of the prison sentence is added as the main form of punishment, the question arises whether society can react to some of the new non-institutional modes of punishment and in what cases. In order for this report to be acceptable to him, he lacks much of it, primarily in the section prescribed by the rules on how to carry out probation work, thus published in the National Journal of No. 68/19 for the part relating to Articles 8 to 30, which is to carry out the obligations of a State lawyer, and then to carry out protective supervision, and then to carry out specific obligations, it lacks information on the experience of sampling measures or at least a review of whether the measure is successful, whether it is broken or otherwise, there is no such report. And when we talk about working for the common good, the work for the general good is pronounced by the court as a substitute for a prison sentence of up to one year or a replacement for fines or as an obligation that a state attorney may impose on the defendant if he has suspended or given up on prosecution. During 2020 convicts worked for general good in hospitals, in institutions for mentalally ill persons, in homes for elderly and powerless, in centres for education and education, in centres for rehabilitation, in urban and municipal societies of the Croatian Red Cross, Caritas, schools, kindergartens, museums, libraries, societies and associations dealing with animal protection, various humanitarian associations, DVDs and JVPs, sports clubs, companies dealing with municipal activities, public authorities, etc. and here I have a large number of concerns, for example whether a list of legal persons is publicly available, if a control office is conducted over those legal persons, there may be a special service, or perhaps within the scope of measures, no analysis by age and sex of convicts, and a type of crime. I also find it extremely important to remind myself of the obstacles to working in the social care activities that I mentioned in the reply to the Secretary of State, and I consider them extremely important for this topic, so they are defined in Article 261. The Social Care Act, therefore, cannot be accepted in a working relationship as a worker in the activities of social care or in matters of social care activities, can be carried out by a person who is legally convicted of any of the crimes against humanity and human dignity, then crimes against life and body, crimes against human rights and fundamental freedoms, crimes against labour relations and social security, crimes against personal freedom, crimes against honor and reputation, crimes against sexual freedom, the sexual abuse of a child, crimes against marriage, family and children, crimes against human health, crimes against property, crimes against the economy, crimes of counterfeiting, criminal offences against official duty, criminal offences against public order or criminal acts against the Republic of Croatia all taxed against the Penal Code. Then, a person who is legally convicted of any of the crimes against life and the body, so crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, crimes against the Republic of Croatia, crimes against the values protected by international law, crimes against sexual freedom and sexual law, crimes against honor and reputation, crimes against marriage, family and youth, crimes against property, criminal offences against human health, crimes against the security of payment and business, criminal offences against the credibility of justice, against public order, against official duty also listed in the Criminal Law and the person who has been criminally sanctioned for domestic violence, the same person who is being brought before a competent court for the criminal offence of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child under criminal law. All of these are obstacles to working in the social care activities set out by the legislator himself, but if it is to carry out a measure of work for the general good, then all the numbered obstacles are ignored and they fall into the water as if they do not even exist. There is no information in the report on the age and sex of convicts who perform the tasks for the common good. Then whether there is even a correlation between the ages of convicts who carry out the tasks of general good and the type of crime. There is no analysis by age and sex of convicts for the duration of parole. There is no analysis of the age and gender of convicts for security measures. There is no record of whether internal surveillance has been carried out, the report shows neither who conducts external surveillance of the Testing Office nor whether internal control of the office has been carried out at all. There are no amounts in the financial statements, or in the financial part of this report, that have received associations that have collaborated with the Testing Office. There is no record of how these associations were chosen at all. There is no data on the use of EU funds. There are no data on inter-resorship cooperation with other bodies, social care centres, health institutions, educational institutions and the like. I don't get it. And when we talk about the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2020, as I have already stated in the interpretation of the request for a break, Chapter 3 relating to the employees of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and the Centre for the Prison System and Prosecution, it is said that on 31 December 2020 in the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and centres a total of 3.558 systematic jobs are missing, and only 2.558 is filled, which is the fillout of only 71.89% or exactly 1,000 employees missing in the entire system. From the table representation of the total number of executioners of systematicised and filled jobs according to the design units on 31.12.2020, it is apparent that 437, in the design unit, the work unit and the vocational training of prisoners or minors of 152 employees or subsistence, are missing. I consider these mentioned building units the most important in the work of penitentiary and thematic institutions. Following these statistical indicators, we can conclude that the most important units lack 696 employees, which is as much as 69.6% of the total number of unfulfilled jobs. It is very signifying and interesting that in the Administration of the Prison System the jobs of the manager and assistant, so the management jobs are almost fully filled. There's only one missing. Obviously, for these jobs, it is easy to find professionals. Of course, this large number of shortages of professional personnel necessary for the normal functioning of the thematic institutions has a consequence and a large increased engagement of the entire staff structure in order to ensure that the job in question is done in quality, time and overall. It is certainly because of this daily increased engagement of officials, i.e. the undersigned, there is a break in some cases of performing a job in a pattern way and a greater risk and the possibility of possible errors in work. Although this is not a new problem, the report does not state what needs to be done to reduce the number of such a large shortage of professional employees. We are clearly interested in what the government is taking in terms of filling certain jobs according to the current systemisation and why so far it turns out that nothing concrete has been done. How many years or years are there at all, so I think of a large number of unfulfilled jobs according to current systemization. Staff policy in these institutions either does not exist or is carried out very badly without giving it the necessary meaning or perhaps it is deliberate. I don't know, I can't imagine that in one system and it's very important as this one is missing about 28% of the professional staff. This clearly points to the fact that this problem is poured from year to year, and that the proposer does nothing or almost nothing to at least mitigate or of course solve this problem completely. In relation to the above opinion, I am aware that the safety situation cannot be assessed by an assessment of good, as is evident from the conclusion, because such a large number of staff shortages certainly have a major impact on the state of security. It is evident from the report that officials, or subsistences, who are certainly insufficiently numbered in the global world, have put forth a great deal of effort, but this system deserves it because it still works with people completely normal, continuous peaceful work without any necessary tensions or possible patterns in the course of action, etc. This is necessary to achieve a satisfactory state of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101091	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101092	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As I always like to hear from this pay phone the voice of people who come from the system that we are talking about here, it was published in one Croatian weekly a few years ago, but I'm in contact with people from the profession and they say that nothing has really changed. So, the letter begins like this, "I've been a prison guard and I've been doing this job for 30 years, I've made progress to the head of the department, prisoners call me commander. I run the department myself, I'm the head of 70 prisoners, sometimes there were more than 250. We're the backbone of a prison, we're paid at least, and we're not appreciated. After adding to an internship and bonus of 30% on the terms of work with all benefits and overtime, on average every month I receive 6.5 thousand kunas doing the hardest work in the prison system. Every day in contact with the prisoners, I open the cell door in the department if it takes 10, 20 times a day. I only get in uniform with a stick sometimes with a paper spray, I can't carry a gun. We don't have radio, we don't have wireless phones if the problems start, we can just yell, bang and hope the reinforcements will arrive in time. What we're bringing into the cell is our authority and that's our greatest power. It should be built from the first contact with anyone who comes to the department. We've already learned who's the worst, paedophiles hate everyone, the cops don't like, politicians and directors chase and want to get attached to them, tell sex offenders that they don't talk about their works in the room, tell them what awaits them, sometimes bullying, sometimes beating them up. The elderly and the sick must be separated into non-smoking rooms if there is room, if there is no waiting for their turn. The rooms are small and tightly built for a maximum of three prisoners. Not everyone can eat at the table at the same time, some do it on the beds, some smoke, others are on the toilet, next to each other. It's hot in the cells. It's hell in the summer. That's why we let them improvise, so the intestines and the tape make manual showers and wash over the squatters. Officially, they have the right to shower once or twice a week with schedules per room." In prisons there are not enough judicial officers, we have already mentioned this here and through a series of replicas, prison filling is mostly a prison system of 150% and workers 72%. So there aren't enough law enforcement officers in prison. I continue with the letter "As head of department I work alone from 7-15 afterwards I write reports. In the morning we wake the prisoners after that sitting down breakfast, the courtyards are full all day, constantly rotating into their groups because everyone has the right to a two-hour walk a day. In our prison facility we have no computers," imagine this 2022. "we have records on the wall on which the names of the prisoners are written on little cards. That hasn't changed since the '80s. During the day, doctors come to the rooms to examine them and give them to inmates of therapy. About 70% of them receive some form of therapy, each review must be attended. Many are at the most difficult treatments, some also on heptanones. You don't know if they have any infectious diseases or not. We are not networked with doctors, and if they do not tell us privately we cannot know if any of the patients is contagiously ill," forgive the prisoners. "The chiefs of departments today are not really asking much. Prisoners are assigned to the treatment department, they decide who's going to be the department's director, even though we may not be satisfied with him. In the rooms the schedules work the prisoners themselves, the strongest, the most influential. Problems with the prisoner should be predicted," so sometimes people working inside the prison system must be psychiatrists and psychologists. "When someone talks to you in five days, I go out, wait for the court's decision and come back bitter because it didn't happen, it is seen that it is at the point of the shooting. A man like that needs to be called to talk, calmed down, talked to him, you can't promise him much, but you need to listen to him, protect him from himself. The prisons are overcrowded, only in Remetec until recently there were more than 700 prisoners."For colleagues and colleagues who may be going that way to know the tycoons and politicians do not have their own singles but are in four bedrooms, here if anyone ever is there to know what awaits him. "The biggest problem with the black market is medicines, about 70% of prisoners receive therapy, and many pretend to take it and sell it later. The nights are the worst when all quiets down many of them are left alone and they want to hurt themselves. They take the razor blades they can have, they cut themselves, they lie down in bed, they cover them with blankets, and they wait for the morning until they can bleed to death. Although patrols go to the risk rooms every 20 minutes, some arrive to control only once, perhaps twice a night. You won't believe the best thing to do with murderers is especially those who did it for the first time, don't create problems, they know what they did. They're not criminals in a broader sense. Working with young people is the hardest thing to do. And here you should be a psychiatrist and a doctor and a parent and a friend. Prisoners are never good. Malpractice is common. People complain that they take their meat off their plate, insult or beat them. We keep an eye out who the prisoners are abroad with, separate them from the doctor. Sometimes they bully each other in their rooms. The conditions are bad, and the wages are small. We don't have equipment, we're in old uniforms, the new ones didn't come even though they were promised. We're too small! One aspect of the life of a judicial officer working in a prison system we may not be thinking about. They have to get out of their jobs, they have to go somewhere to get coffee, they have to go to the market, they have to go to the store, they have to go to the movies, and at the end of it, they're on the street. They are approached on the road by former prisoners and by their behavior they can know what they were, because stories spread from the penitentiary to the penitentiary, and then further back to freedom. We should have a calm conscience saying ultimately that man and we know how to make mistakes, but we're here to make it easier. Robbie's the hardest prisoner in the world anyway. After all these years and I repeat, the gentleman has been a prison guard for 30 years. I'm already tired, but I can't retire because there's no one to replace me. Added to this letter are just a few more lines from the stand of the Croatian Judicial Police Union. We're talking about 2021. Apparently, the union can do it a lot more up-to-date than his department, where we're talking about 2020 today without a grudge. The year we'll remember most and as the second pandemic of covid is 2021. The year ended in a way that prison officials in Zagreb, with the support of prison hospital officials, were dissatisfied with the introduction of certificates of vaccination of their dissatisfaction, discrimination against those who must have confirmations against those who do not have to and participate in court proceedings in a peaceful gathering in front of prison in Zagreb expressed their dissatisfaction. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, freedom and the right to work. In 2021, we heard numerous promises about the final adoption of the Law on the Judicial Police, the purchase of n these vehicles, the new regulation on titles, where the number of calls would be increased in the medium section. Let the name be added, and the name of a junior judicial officer shall be abolished. There were also promises that by the end of last year, they would know exactly what would happen to the prison in Sisak and its employees. These people are very close to half of 2022 still think and plan their future and the future of their families. We hear stories about making new badges, new parts of uniforms, getting official dogs and activating the intervention team through the new rulebook, so here is a really good question how much it costs, how much it weighs, and this small amount of money it's meant in the budget for the prison system this year. What's the big deal? What's the change really look like? Official badges and making new ones? Could those funds have been planned for something else? Of course they are. There used to be talk and tended to the Scandinavian way of working the prison system. None of this, unfortunately, has been achieved except for the high cost of traveling to the head of the same prison system. It would be more said that the prison system is near the South American model, the overcrowding of institutions, phones, and drugs for sale within institutions, and all that is naturally strictly forbidden. The heads of the Department of the Prison System are closing both their eyes and ears on everything they're being written and warning about what's going on and what might happen inside the prison system. Of course, we may be talking about isolated cases, but they've never happened before, and they certainly shouldn't, let alone become normal. No one's responsible for anything unless the guilty are found in the judicial police. In all the media in the last year, except for the number of infected and dead by the virus, news of incidents, prison systems. No system in Croatia unfortunately writes more and worse than in the prison system, which are facts. We can't get away from the assessment that it's all the same as the result of the lack of interest, the ignorance of the people who run this system. In this year and in the years ahead, something will have to change. This way of relations between the leaders of the prison system towards everything that is negative and what is currently happening in certain institutions is the result of their inertness and can result only in more serious and dangerous incidents. And something very current since January of this year has been related, of course, to the rise in prices of life, and thus to the rise in fuel prices. Have the officers been cut off? Of course, it is in that old collective contract for civil servants and tenants if the highest retail price of Eurosuper is changed according to data from the Ministry of Economy by more than 15% from the date of entry into force of the contract, cost compensation, etc. etc. It will increase by a mile by the amount of the increase in the price of gasoline. Yeah, of course we know the collective contract is gone. The rights of civil servants are regulated by the government's unilateral decision and depend exclusively on the government's decision and will. The increase in transport costs for business as well as other material rights is defined exclusively by collective agreement, so at present not by any single law and the government dictates the course and time of negotiations. And she's just finished for the end and my personal friend is working as a judicial officer in Zagorje and the job is carried by Varazdin, Zlatar over Leprechaun anywhere she needs. And unfortunately for much, much less pay than those at the beginning of my speech mentioned six and a half thousand kuna. It's final. The Department of Homeland Movement Club will support both of these reports, but once again I would like to stress the time for the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to understand and just reward all the efforts and responsibilities of judicial officers, judicial officers and at least through adequate monthly salary to acknowledge and reward from everything they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101093	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Directors of the Department of Prison System and Prosecution immediately state the position of the HDZ Club will support both these reports, the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary and prisons and the report on the work of the probation service. First of all, I want to express my appreciation, and I think that both of these reports are well-made, they contain a whole, whole set of data from which you can actually see how the system itself works. Of course, it can always be better, I might find this more interesting and better to have some comparative data from some EU Member States so that we can dimension ourselves against some kind of picture. But what you might say is if we look at our reports back a few years ago, I think we've had these numbers back a few years quite similar. As far as I can see, it actually circulates through the entire system about 11, 11 and a half thousand more people or less. So there's these real prisoners who support prison sentences for over 6 months and so on, they had about 40% more or less. We have a whole series of people who are actually in an investigative prison and they're also going through the system and we see that these figures are conditionalally said very much like they are. I would say to all of this certainly that there are great challenges that are facing the prison system and which, which, in fact, would be good to take some step forward every year and it would be good to have a little potential in the report for what the year has been done compared to the year before, so that we get the impression that it's not standing in place but that it actually goes forward. All of this should be viewed as part of a broader picture called the functioning of the entire state apparatus. I mean, it's not like I'd say, not one rational reason that we don't say if we have a systemized 3,000 and I don't know how many official posts, and we have two and a half, a thousand less that we should get to, this full number, but again if we look at a wide picture of whatever ministry we enter, whatever state institution we enter, we'll actually see that the systemization rule is almost everyone's got a lot more systemized place than it's filled with. What's systemized would probably be some kind of ideal picture, and what's filled in is actually some sort of picture of real possibilities and objective images that we have at that point. Should the wages be in the system higher? Of course you would, of course you would. However, it is part of a story that the budget can bear. I remember a few years ago there was a conversation between the judicial police union, and then after that conversation with the court counselors, and actually when we analyzed it and measured it, then we saw that these salaries of junior law enforcement officers and court counselors were very similar. A little more court counselors, and they look at the gear. So the court advisor also does an extremely complex and difficult job, conducts court proceedings, conducts trials, decides on people's fates, has to have a law school, has to have a state-level, judicial exam. The situation here is still lower, high school is enough, education is enough. So all of these things, all of this really needs to be better and stronger and bigger, but the thing is possibilities, space. We've got a whole series of penitentiary, we've got a whole series of prisons in the Republic of Croatia, we've got these other facilities, and you've got you shut down, and these penitentiary stores have their history longevity. Now we've found ourselves in this reporting period with the natural earthquake disaster that was and we've seen that we're faced with a problem of Clay and Sisko that's actually half an hour away from each other and that there's about 140 prisoners who have been placed there and that was actually a good reaction, a quick reaction, and on that side we really don't have anything to say. What I think should also be done in the next periods, that should be stated, every year steps are done and the conditions of the lives of the prisoners in our system are improved. There is, for example, a difference in Glina we know that there is one new part that was arranged 10 years ago and that really has good conditions, but on the other hand there are in other penitentiary and prisons there are actually conditions that are worse and that need to be improved. On the other hand, I know this one's been working on it year after year, and all that needs to be made clear and listed whether it is. In Lepoglav a few years ago, an energy venture was made, in fact a new boiler room that cost and has brought certain savings, and it should always be stated that this is to be seen. There were words here if our system was closer to Scandinavian or South American. I'll say it this way when you say the prison system in public there's some kind of picture that's being built on maybe some kind of like this or some of the novels or what we're looking at in some movies, so people might imagine it's a system where it's dominant abuse of people, torture or something. No, it's definitely not like that. The conditions can certainly be better, but we need to know that our prisoners throughout the system, which there are great data, have a whole series of programs that they go on, there's actually a lot of education, a lot of treatments, they have the opportunity and the education, they have the ability and the ability to work within the system and acquire new knowledge because in fact the primary and first goal of our entire system is to resociate these people and actually train these people after a sustained sentence when they come back so that we can say in real life that they can somehow fit in, the next day to be all normal, if it provides our prison system. There are tortures or this one or that one that have good data, and you can see exactly how many physical attacks there were in 2020. 8, how many times did our officers have to apply funds forced 64 in 2022, in 2020, so to 11,000 people who went through the system there were actually 64 applications of coercion because someone had not acted according to the rules, since escape attempts, there were two attempts to escape. The painful point is suicide and death. When death in the prison system is said to be immediately connected and someone thinks someone killed someone there, however, it is very often about situations where people who come into the prison system come with serious diseases and it is, in fact, the largest, largest part of the cases they die from the disease they brought with them, with which they came. The prison system also exists in the penitentiary and in prisons there are infirmarys, and when we look at those 11,000 people who are pro-circulating, we are in 2020. We had 71,000, we had 71,000 general checks at those health facilities. Anything that can't be provided in a hospital or a prison hospital goes out, goes to these other institutions, so I say civil society that can provide it. Anyway, I think it's one of the challenges, the figures are pretty high related to drug addicts and alcohol addicts. Maybe there should be a little increase in the number of workshops, treatments, more attention, is that something that can actually be spread. Also this is due to the likely lack of number of officials, physical conflicts between the prisoners themselves, they were in the observed period of 229, which someone will say is a lot, someone will say it is small, but it should certainly work to make it as little as possible because the number observed is 11,000 and something more so people who have pro-circulated through the system. As far as the prison system is concerned, I will conclude once again that the better conditions in the system are one of the challenges and each year should work on them. When I say better conditions I think the situation means the environment in which they are and the cells in which they live and spend that time should certainly be in a better condition, somewhere in a satisfactory, there are categories, a larger number of employees also, a larger salary also, a clear and greater number of treatments although even these treatments we have is actually seen is a wide range of these treatments and there is also a lot of good communication with civil society associations because they are very important in actually spending all of this and a stronger and stronger fight against drug addiction and alcohol. And I am particularly pleased with one fact, which is that program with UNICEF means where inmates who are parents have the ability to communicate with their children not only physically there in this way but also digitally, so through a videolink that opens up the possibility of more frequent communication and in some ways it is welcome and that, in any case, this type of communication needs to be nurtured so that it cannot replace the physical, but edit the areas where children will come and be with their parents it is very important to continue, of course, further digitization. There's been a lot of talk about electronic surveillance, and that's what we need to work on, and I know that's what this Norwegian fund supports. It's a specific form of surveillance that's known in the world and we need to continue because it's one process, it's not easy either, it's not easy to install either. More or less these are all things that are related to the prison system, it would be very important to say something about probation. We have a relatively new institution, it's been living for 10 years, but the trial has now spread in those 10 years. We have 14 district offices, I think the last two in Vukovar and Gospić are open and the trial is now more unimaginable not only for the execution of prison sentences but also for the functioning of courts and state lawyers where actually the expert people from the trial are doing certain analyses on which security measures and choices are based and the choice and determination of the type of punishment in the criminal proceedings. There are 100 people employed very much as far as the professional profile is concerned, I think it is satisfactory, and of course we should continue to work on improving and strengthening that service with which I think we can also praise the international frameworks because as far as rehearsals are concerned, I think that we are like, as a society, that we have one of the better trials in the world at all. So once again, this commendation for this report that really contains a number of minutes of phone calls, from the number of visits, from the number of hospital reviews, so there is a lot to do, but for the future, try to do some comparative data within these few more developed EU countries and ultimately the same comparatively compared to what has been done year by year. What I think about all of this should be done because it is part of a system of one process that has its own path and should always be looked at in a wider picture because there is no, as I would say, this outside of the system of state administration because those salaries that are set there are actually the coefficients and wages that are within the whole state, and the number of employees that can be employed in relation to the rulebook is also within all other parts of the system. So here we are, of course, as other clubs have already said, going to support both of these reports, and we're going to see a 2021 report, and I believe that these numbers are similar to that of here, with that we have in '21. In fact, the application of the law that has been passed and which is new in connection with the execution of the prison sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101095	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101096	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary, the assistants, the MPs. I would join most clubs and say for a start that the report is really good and very, very much that it gave us a lot of data and that it was well structured both. What you might notice is that this, as well as many other reports that we are talking about here in view of 2020, is quite focused and related to the pandemic itself, which is not a miracle. I think the pandemic certainly had a significant impact on the work of these institutions and penitentiary and prisons and institutions. However, she would notice that, as in some other reports, the pandemics here are actually covered up that a series of problems have actually been being dragged away for years and that could say the structural problems of that part and that were being dragged away before 2020 and should be dealt with. It is sufficient to note that out of the 150 cases that are related to the prison system itself, which was launched by the Ombudsman's Office during 2020 by all 26 of them was related to certain restrictions related to the pandemic, and all other cases are related to those problems that have been being dragged to us for many years, so with inadequate health care in the face of some kind of official's actions, amongst the prison violence, with inadequate conditions of accommodation, etc. When we talk about health care, I see that my colleague Bosnjakovic mentioned it too, and let's just say that the report is a little missing, and they would say that. This aspect is mentioned in principle and more or less is actually said to provide inmates and minors with treatment from a domain such as anyone who has compulsory health insurance, that it will be provided in hospitals of criminal bodies and institutions or in the nearest institutions, and that specialist examinations and hospital treatment will be carried out in a prison hospital. Now, I think you're also quoting numbers, and among other things, the report says that the largest number of people deprived of freedom applies to psychiatric diseases that we can understand, and then when you look at a prison hospital here, unfortunately, there's none of the fellow psychiatrists we normally have in the assembly, in the prison hospital, you have 90 acute psychiatric beds, you have one permanent psychiatrist and two in a half-time, so one and a half psychiatrists on 90 acute beds. I think as someone who worked at the hospital it's impossible, my colleague Reeiner will confirm it, I think so can't provide adequate care and then makes the working conditions for that healthcare staff equally impossible. And I know you've been looking for psychiatrists there for years and nobody wants to work there, so now these two who work part-time are retired people who patch up pensions there, but that's that vicious circle. So we have inadequate conditions, we have devastated staff, and then we don't have the proper care and it draws each other. So, in the report of the attorney general I read, it says that the prisoners complained frequently that they were failing to get a specialist checkup, that even though they were unable to get any information on whether they were ordered, how long they would wait, etc. and what's worrying and ok, it's certainly partly related to the pandemic, but perhaps you should pay attention to that if they have a very difficult communication with the selected doctors of family medicine and dentists. So, I repeat, everyone had difficulty in 2020 with that kind of communication, but this should be watched in the future anyway. Okay, so that's now about the health system past the pandemic. Secondly, there are also complaints at the expense of accommodation, and I think that in the pandemic frameworks there is even more expression, so that sometimes these spaces are overcrowded, that sanitary nodes are not available enough, which is of course not adequate, nor in the context of human dignity, but under pandemic conditions is not healthy either. On the other hand, from what I've read, it appears that the prison system responded adequately to the pandemic, that it reacted in a timely manner, that for a very long time it resisted the virus’s penetration, that when the virus and penetrated that it had successfully dealt with it, which is certainly commendable. I also commend that it allowed prisoners that after banning visits were imposed they had extended phone calls and that they had been enabled and video visits. What is not good is that the phone extended calls continued to account as a financial burden for the prisoners themselves, and we know that the prices of these phone calls were more than market calls, and in this prisoner they had no equal opportunity to work as they had until then a higher pandemic. There have also been a lot of complaints about inadequate treatment during 2020. These are complaints filed by the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System and Prosecution, but in fact the answers that came from that central office were very often patterned, or on most complaints received one and the same answer from two sentences saying that no irregularities were found. So, it's the opposite of what the attorney general's office has been looking for for years, which is that each complaint is individually considered and then handled. This way I don't think we're actually going to make a move in that sense. I also think it's worrying that it's still the same pace as the occupier's lawyer complains about amongst prison violence or I think it's one of the key things that should be fixed, so she was getting the same, the office was actually getting the same number of complaints about the violence of every kind and physically and sexually and psychologically and especially of particularly vulnerable groups, so from the Roma group, from a group of people with intellectual difficulties, so it actually just proves that there is no strategy and that there is no more important prevention, so there are no preventive mechanisms that would actually affect the fact that prisoners can endure prison sentences in a secure and dignified way. We would therefore like to see more information in future reports about the violence itself among prisoners. Let's say this report states that there were deaths in prisons, but apart from finding out that none of the cases were the result of suicide, which is certainly good, we don't know anything about how other deaths occurred. What I also think is worth being highlighted in the report is the willingness of the system to co-operate with civil society organisations, these are some of the most valuable projects of the "Grates are not an obstacle" on the next, that is, indeed, they are great things. We regret that this has weakened a little because of the pandemic, but we believe that, that it has already come to life or that it will come to life in the future. Many here have also talked about the demanding conditions in which the guards work. We, from the Green Left Block, really hold that, that the guards are not only guardians, but that they are a key resource that can contribute and actually promote rehabilitation and resociation of the executioners themselves, and on that side should actually be significantly more graphified because, as with the healthcare staff in that system, it is precisely the lack and absence of that grace that begins to create this vicious circle that there are less and less of them, that the conditions are becoming more and more difficult, that they are then increasingly occurring in that system, etc. However, as I understand it, we have recently changed the law to raise that age line because unfortunately there are not enough to eat. And for the very end, I would point out a sentence in a report that I think is very important, which is that, given the gender in the prison system, male prisoners dominate 94.27% of men, compared to women who are only 5.72%. So it's a data that can't crystallize how the problem of violence, the problem of delinquency, the problem of criminal offences has its own, its birth ground, so it's rooted in its birth, and in this sense it's really important that this conditionality of the parent service finally begin to be recognized and that the rehabilitation problems are actually directed through the perspective. Here, I hope we read more about it in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101097	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the honourable representative Michel Jaksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101098	Thank you, Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon and a nice greeting to all. In the name of the SDP Club, what we need to underline is that this is not certainly a topic on which the government and any debate can pick up applause, and it is certain that this is the topic from which the mass of people would rather run away in their not only debates but also in their own thoughts. What's definitely that additional fact of pain is all that attitude and all the feeling that exists in our judiciary and according to numerous court proceedings, court decisions, and then when it comes to the work of a probation service or a penitentiary that we have today as a united debate is definitely not a light topic to be called in some political jargon. What we want to point out at the very beginning is that technical and implementing reports are all done correctly, there can be a lot of data, there can even be some comparatives, although we would certainly like to have more specific comparisons in some future reports as to how we are standing with the EU and what steps are taken from year to year, and not even that reports are coming to us to discuss, something to say and then we are no longer drawing the line that has been made and why it has been done, but we would also like to have a few more indicators that are happening with certain and neural points and certain problems in the system itself either appear or appear from time to time and appear. When we talk about this, of course, that the report covers pandemic times and it is certain that, as in many other fields, much has changed and worked in a different way. Some things may have been made easier by the crown within the system itself, but what remains is that there have been a lack of complaints from both the judicial officers and all other people involved in the work of our prison system, as there have been certain complaints received on the Justice Committee by the prisoners themselves and the prisoners themselves who have explained in several letters why they think they are violating certain rights that they should have regardless of the current social status they have. Okay, the crown praises God in this form of lockdowns remained behind us, today we are going towards some new discussions and according to some new plans, and it is certain that we would like to see in the coming years which European prison system Croatia wants to settle, which are the models that we want to develop in the Republic and how this system will function in these future times. So, what we're thinking of doing with infrastructure problems, even though we admit that certain repairs are still made, when we're not going to have complaints about the state of the penitentiary, what we're going to do with situations that have arisen from murder to drug trafficking, to cell phone smuggling and other illicit stuff. Because apart from some media hickeys, we haven't heard that some institutional new step has been made and that something has been done that doesn't happen to us anymore. And how we intend to strengthen the entire system and to reintegration the resociation of all those who are in trouble with the law and are hit by the rule of law, but also in a strengthened way to protect the citizens of this country from those who unfortunately have penalties for committing serious crimes. It's not something that can be cleared up and solved, or even better debates from report to report. It is certain that we need a much wider and much deeper analysis of what we have today and what we think we should do in future times. It is certain that there is much to say and opposition. Of course, this is expected by automation, but surely there are a lot of professional people in Croatia who could make a strong inventory of the existing state with quality suggestions how to do as much with what we have, and also see how we can strengthen certain financial investments through our budget items in law for this system. Because what we're seeing in this report is that we haven't even filled out everything we have systematically in that system yet. We know ourselves that we often get both as parliamentary representatives and as a Committee on Justice and Appeals of Judicial Officers and Prison Guards on their material rights, on all their material conditions, on their working conditions. And what we must honestly say is that we haven't moved too much here, no matter how constant these complaints are. What we have the opportunity to hear in today's debates, see in the reports, but also hear when certain complaints arrive that the same question is how professional capacitation is to implement everything that is needed and from the aspect of medical and psychosocial and any other help that these people need and that is definitely something that I think we will all have to do a lot more in the coming days. This is a serious topic, we are talking about a serious and very important system for the functioning of a modern, democratic state where everyone would like the rule of law respected. And it is certain that, regardless of all the steps that are being done, some of them have been stepped up in these steps by entering the EU, that we should all together through the idea both through discussion and through the analysis of the situation, but then, after that, also through budgetary separation, give us much more than we have given so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101099	The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Sačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101100	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and fellow state secretary, associates, Croatian public. Here again we have the opportunity to analyze the reports we received about the work of the probation service and the situation in our penitentiary, prisons, the execution of criminal sanctions. What we can rightly point out as a club of Croatian sovereigns is that we are not happy to discuss the report on the work of our services, the important services in 2022, and this refers to 2020. But let's just say that our Secretariat of the Parliament set it that way. The whole situation regarding the execution of this complex task of our society depends in fact on the decisions of our judicial bodies, so that every report on the work of our probation services and the execution of prisons and all criminal sanctions must be brought to order at the general level with the criminal policy which I have said is determined by our courts, and the overall opinion is in Croatia, and so is the data when we analyse the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia, and the courts that we have opportunities every year in this assembly to have on our benches, then we can come to the conclusion that our criminal policy is very mild and that in a rather liberal way we want to show ourselves, achieve the purpose of punishment defined by the Constitution and special laws, that the offenders, the most serious offenders and perpetrators of the most serious crimes are actually trying to reintegrate, re-socialise, to say and separate from their criminal lives, and to become again become responsible members of our members, responsible members of our society. To what extent it is effective, it is difficult to say at this point when we have some statistics that unfortunately the number of relapsers and returnees, especially in the younger population, are offenders of the criminal acts in continuing growth. It's a sign that you need to change a certain approach, and it's not easy. This should include the entire scientific and professional public, highly qualified experts, targeted by the state and effects of such measures outside Croatia on European soil as we saw there in Scandinavia. What is achieved in America and elsewhere. And then finally take the direction that approach would be best if our perpetrator of a crime affected by a multitude of factors at some point did not decide to break the law but to solve his life problems in a civilized way and how the society expects him to. It's hard to say, we can only idealize and hope that we will come in a moment for such people who don't see the way, who come to the wall to be less and less, but there will be forever. And this society of ours has recently been able to say that we are dealing with this problem as a community in a civilised, generally acceptable way, that we have largely accepted all these high achievements of penological science and the experiences of other highly developed countries, that our prison system consisting of penitentiary, of the prisons of the juvenile institution, has primarily been functioning for women lately, in the last year, two, three, in one way that keeps things above water. And what does that mean? This means that, with a minimum investment of only 55 million kunas that we spend annually on the functioning of the entire system, we are somehow keeping under control about 3,500 prisoners, punishers of whom only on the back of the 2.550 people employed in that system as judicial officers conditionally told by the judicial guards that they carry the whole burden on their backs with this upgraded part of highly professional this person, service and testing and those in the system, the system of execution of criminal sanctions at the level of the ministry, but the greatest burden lies on the backs of those 2,500 people, and this society predicted to be 3,500 means as many as 1,000 people are missing to do their task as it is puts before them. And high standards, these standards and regulations have been resolved, international standards because the fundamental, fundamental principle of maintaining the prison in Croatia is to respect the human dignity of a person who is actually in a system of taking away freedom, the legal system of taking away freedom. Of course, we had an opportunity to hear a dramatic letter, an exposure from our fellow Dretar who I have no doubt gave one honest and one would say a truly alarming display of the life and work of a prison guard, a judicial officer. In that prison, in any prison that is missing, people lack to perform their jobs and tasks without excessive stress and risk, and to perform their functions. Unfortunately, we're not in that position today, and that's, that's this huge lack of this Justice Department. You haven't done that in the last year, two enough to first educate, to animate first of all, motivate one number of people to enter that system legally and educate them, to keep them in that system for doing a hard job because it's not just a job, it's ultimately a specific, well a certain life mission, as is a life mission for a cop, like a life mission for a teacher. Thus, in a specific way, this stressful and extremely difficult life mission is to be a judicial officer all his life who has done his hard work with people who have broken the law and who are not difficult and who need to move around daily, while at the same time coming home to their family and doing all the other tasks that each of us should civilisedly and culturally and responsibly carry out. There you have not done what you have to do and it is your task that if you need to find a way to attract these people into the system because they have a direct impact on re-advism and re-socialization, reintegration of these people. In fact, they are daily with these law breakingers and the most difficult cases and depending on them, it is actually the last line of defense, that is what Croatian society all want to end well, to end with as little of this violation of the law as possible, to end each, every conflict socially in a civilized way, but the tool that we have on hand, in addition to closures and bars are people who daily need except professional services, but who daily need these offenders especially these younger lifetimes to know that the world has not stopped and that they can and need to be corrected conditionally. If we don't have these people, such good, such angels in this world, then the chances of recidivism are much greater. So, and this tells you that something bad has been happening in the number of violent delicacies since 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, it is constantly increasing to you. So it doesn't accidentally increase the number of violence in our penitentiary and prisons. It is also influenced by many factors, and one of them is the insufficient number of our judicial officers to work and to be there as adversaries and to prevent, prevent such conflicts from one another. So, at the principle level of things we legally well set up and our legal architecture should guarantee that anyone who enters is registered, punished, sentenced, when entering our prison system, should in a civilised and controlled process execute their sentence after the time that the judge has ordered him to go out as a man who is capable of social life. Of course, thank God we have no objections in recent years either by the EU, the European Commission or by international institutions dealing with the monitoring of such types of prison violence. So we've long gone from any process of torture, abuse of violence by repressive unnecessary repression in the prison system, and that's very good, that's a positive value, and yet the value that lies on the back of our judicial police to the greatest extent, and then the surveillance system that doesn't allow our officers to abuse their position and thus create even more conflicts, that is to say, human rights and freedoms for convicted persons. But it should also be pointed out that in some investigative prisons, where these warrants are executed in criminal proceedings, we do not have enough space, first of all, for our Remitinc investigative prison, there are major problems, it must be. We have a chance to get rid of it. The law gives you a chance. You have to keep doing this to dissipate this system, because in the end of these 3900 beds conditionally said for prisoners that as a society we now have ready for those to whom the court determines the deprivement, i.e. the absence of freedom is only 2500 seems filled with this moment of inmate. Thus, there is no need, regardless of the earthquake, for a hundred people we moved from Clay and a hundred from Sisak. You need to make one more humane environment, a more civilized way of executing difficult times to offenders of potential, defendants or indictees who are awaiting their trial in Remetec because there are the strictest prisons. There, when we consider the presumption of innocence there, we have people who are potentially innocent and suffer very great restrictions on their own rights and freedoms, and then they need this society to meet and do what is necessary not to suffer them or their families more than can be expected at all. All in all, I want you to repair these personnel insufficiencys, these personnel deficits, and continue the human work and the treatment of our prisoners, the convicts, to keep them safe. We have provided them with all rights under international and European regulations and in accordance with with our Constitution and to be their life as easy as possible and to be [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Turn peace and responsibility into freedom. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101101	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and the Voice, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101102	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have the 2020 reports ahead of us. In 2020, it is an unusual year, the year Croatia was hit by the coronus, i.e. covid as the whole world. But what we still had was such an additional accident, and these were earthquakes, and it is seen through the report that these earthquakes really made it impossible in a certain way and two locations, so Sisak and Petrinja, that is, it is not unusual that it was there in such a way that the prisons in Clay and the prison in Sisak did not unusually happen there. But what I would like to say through this report is: “Any report I am looking at in that formal part and the essential part. In the formal part I can't object, I can say it's a correct report that has quite enough data. With that data, you can handle it well. There is one methodology of the report so that reports can be compared to years ago. But what we should be interested in is this content part. And I'd like to highlight this content part a little bit. When anyone mentions prison or anything, I'm sure it's always on our mind that those pictures are from some American movies and prisons in America. And what we need to know about us isn't so and thank God it's not. Because when we look at all the violence that they are, when we see that at one point in America about a decade ago, the building of a prison went through a private public partnership project no matter what it was called, so it can't be called that, but the privates were building prisons, and then they were dealing with certain judges very openly and clearly can be said, because there are indicators and data, the judges judged what they needed or didn't need to be filled with prisons. And what we really need to know is that the situation in Croatia is not like that, but the situation in Croatia in prisons and in general regarding the work of certain services should be seen in the context of our laws and laws as we have changed and the facts that we have had. There's always this one saying that the grass in the neighboring yard is greener. That's what we from this pay phone and I also call it the siren when I resist, which is to try to say that in some other countries it's better arranged, that some other countries have it better. When it comes to the prison system, then we like to say how it was done or what it was like in Scandinavia. But in Croatia it would be like Scandinavia we should be Scandinavians and we're not. We are who we are and we need to look at the system we have. What the figures show is the following and what I want in the first part of this exhibition is the following, and that is a small number of employees. So on one prisoner according to the data is somewhere above two, two and three, two four depending on what he looks at employees in the health system and it shows that the rules, the systematizations have a need for one, so for one number and the reality is that he needs to be more employees, and there's not enough. And now there are colleagues and colleagues in another situation. There's no one in our ranks or in the media who won't say in public space how many employees there are in public systems, how many employees there are in the public administration, that people are constantly employed there, that then we compare it when it's as much, and then when you get a report like this, you see from this one report that whoever's in the system says my people in the system are too few and so are my colleagues who spoke before me, talking from different aspects, says we don't have enough people to make the system work. And that's a fact. Now, where's the truth? The truth is always, I always kind of think the truth is in the middle. On the one hand you know you might be filling a system that you don't need and in which you have, there's not so much, and on the other hand, that system that should actually have people who can do this job you have too little. In the prison system is this sensitive relationship between someone who is incarcerated and someone who lives there with him. So the one who, therefore, is the guardians, is all those other services they live with. They must also take care of other matters, and that one sensitivity of all of them, and I read these reports in substance through it. The content of these reports I want to get the data and I want them, so that's where it's showing up, we have everything we can handle, but then when we go to change some laws, we need to take care of it. So we in prisons have 3,919 places, that's the data that's from this and the data that's been continuous. Essentially, the question is whether we're going to lay our laws out in a way that we're much more into some kind of open-minded type, about when for some minor acts to wear bracelets or if we want to have more room in prisons. This is a key question that we from this report and all of this need to answer because if we answer that and say that Croatia should have, but this is not only about this, it is about all the legislation, because from this legislation then and the way that we are dealing with certain works, we will get to the number of people in prison or we have some other model. So it's all a system of connected vessels. You can't look at this separately without looking at everything else. So, as you can't look at employees, you can't just watch those who are prison guards, you should look at social workers, you should look at doctors and you should watch and I don't know psychiatrists, you should look at everyone else because they all actually make up this one mini system. So a few years ago, maybe it was a 10-year-old who decided to build a prison in Sibenik, even though it was even a location, and it was the idea to withdraw certain EU funds for it all together because then, it was actually shown that this number of places in prisons was too small. I really don't want to be a judge at all and say that, the number of places we have in prisons is too small, we're going to have to do something and strengthen the number of places, but I don't even want to say the number of places is enough he depends on some other things. It depends on how we lay down our legislation, how we punish for certain acts, because if we also punish them for going into a really closed system, then I'm sure it's too small, and if not, that's enough. What's important is the part that I'm always interested in is this educational, educational programme, cooperation with civil society. So when you're talking about 2020, when you're talking about context at all, remember, so in 2020, it was kind of me thinking about it as if it wasn't even there, we were living in some kind of context, and I'm sure the prison system was living in some different conditions, and what I expected was going to take a special look at the number of suicides. I was kind of expecting it to be 2020, because that consequence so we're going to see through some numbers and stuff, but the number of suicides or not at all if I'm not mistaken either, so it turns out that in 2020, or that what happened outside the prison system in the prison system wasn't. I always find it interesting from those reports to see what number the fugitives were. So, when it was running away from certain penitentiary or educational institutions or in that kind of transport and it's somewhere at the level of 2019, so there aren't any of those topics that I'd like to report to, back to those American movies doing American movies. There's one more thing that I think we need to get further into the report and that's opening up the problem. So what when you look at a little bit of all the documentation, what everyone points out, shows is that they are not adequate conditions for talking prisons, there are standard ones about the number of squares, or they count in cubes towards one prisoner. Our prisoners, when sued by the EU institutions, receive, so after closed, prisoners who have decided to go before certain EU courts, they receive and receive certain fees. I would like in one, another report or report when it comes to having a little bit and that part that is related to standards, to the standards that are, which are at the level of some average, where we are, how many lawsuits that our prisoners are when they come out of it, how it ended and what we're doing and what we're doing. The conclusion is one report that is correct, a report in which you have enough data. This part I specifically state because that part of the report should definitely be where we are, which we are in this whole context. And from this report, in fact, you should always read and I especially stress this report should be seen in the context and in all other laws because then all other laws we must lie to the country as we wish to be. And I'm always reading it that way, whether we want to be a country that has more room in prisons or we're going to be, or we want to be a country where for certain works that it's estimated to be a device, condemned, and everything else is given the possibility of some more open type and some other thing. In a 20-year-old they were always, it was different about those cases that were the result of car accidents, and then they were in some more open-minded types, but it's actually one policy. One country's policy of relations to justice and relations to the entire system, and we read and read these reports from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101103	We move to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101104	Thank you. It is quite clear, and all colleagues pointed out in their debate that it takes much more investment in both our prison system and our probation service, that the capacities themselves, and of course the people who work there deserve better conditions, therefore both work and business, and I have nothing to add to that. In his opening statement, the State Secretary said that it simply cannot affect the judiciary itself, and we cannot know at all times how much pressure there will be on prisons and prisons, but we need to prepare ourselves. And here I would tell the secretary of state to try to influence both the minister himself and the government to secure larger financial resources and for the meaning of the prison system because as things stand, the pressure on the prison system will be growing and higher. This is also shown by these affairs, where an increasing number of government officials are coming under attack means independent bodies, as well as the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We have a situation right now where we are actually trying to decriminalize the government as a government reconstruction. So it's not about any government reconstruction, it's about moving out of the government of those who are under the burden of investigating independent bodies. I want to thank all the MPs who have shown true opposition from this place. So here are the representatives of the Social Democrats Club, there's a representative of the Homeland Movement Club, and here I want to report from this place and the public and the media and the citizens that it has collected 31 signatures for the recall of 3 government officials. It is Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, which is Minister of Economy Coric and Minister of Labour means the pension system of Aladrovic. With a move like this No, I'm not talking about pressure on the prison system. [[Let's get back to it.]] So this kind of move, so you've been arrested by Minister Horvat was in custody and we're talking about how we don't have enough capacity, we don't have a place, we're not ready, and this tide is going to be bigger and bigger, and especially when we take responsibility for this country, when the institutions become free, when we give them full freedom to review everything that's been criminally investigated, all the contracts, all the employment, all the support, then this vice president's pressure will grow. I want to help this government secure the funds for what's going to happen. Not to be surprised, as Prime Minister Plenkovic was surprised by the arrest of Minister Horvat. So, with this move, we have actually made it impossible for Plenkovic to talk about some government reconstruction, to do it in peace, to present it as strengthening and empowerment rather than coming here or if he is conducting a reconstruction before the government has at least seven days to manifest itself on this request. That's all I have to say, more funding for our prison system, better pay for all the people who are employed in that prison system because it's certainly not an easy job. I listened to a colleague of the Dretars who talked about it and actually read a letter about it, so there must be a lot more investment, investment in capacities and people who are employed there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101105	The Honorable representative of Dretar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101106	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Representative Grmoy, we have come to some concrete indicators during this debate today. 150% of the people in the system are, or whatever they are called, protégés, prisoners, or those who are under educational or whatever measures they are. So one and a half times as many as they should be, and the employees are 72%. So a little more than a quarter of them are missing. Well, here's an interesting idea, so maybe I should hear your comment. In order to expand the capacity of the prison system, can we think about the possible construction of new prisons or any other facilities through the process, i.e. through the principle of public-private partnership? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101107	Before you answer, a respected representative of Buddinski raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Injury 238. You hurt your colleague Grmoi's article 238, because look, first you didn't talk about the subject, and second you don't do the government's reconstruction, you're going to be working on the Prime Minister who got a mandate from the citizens to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101109	I told my colleagues that and he came back on the subject, so I did it. Okay. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101110	So I'm not sure that such a model would be very acceptable, because there is a possibility that those involved in this government that would implement this kind of public private partnership model would not be certain that all those involved in the implementation of the project would not fill those capacities that would be built through this public-private partnership. So I'm not sure that's gonna solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101111	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101112	Your Honor, I will rule out the opportunity to draw attention to my colleague that unfortunately the government's current reconstruction is being done by law enforcement authorities and the judicial system, not by the prime minister. But okay, now it's on the sidelines. You've probably studied the budget and you've seen that there's actually less resources in the budget for the sampling system and the prison system. And the question is, is there even enough money if all jobs are filled and if they want to raise salaries for these employees, is it even feasible with these resources currently available?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101113	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101114	Well, I made it clear that, of course, only the reduction of funds shows that the government is actually not leading one policy, strategically so that it monitors the current situation in that system, and especially, so if we have the fact that the government does, here's at least saying it does, that it speeds up somehow and judicial proceedings and that our processes take too long. If what the Government announces is truly realising is that the procedures will last shorter this will necessarily lead to a greater charge of these capacities and it is logical to ensure greater resources. And of course what the colleague said, the prime minister is conducting a reconstruction. What kind of prime minister is conducting a reconstruction? So, your esteemed colleague has been arrested by Minister Horvat. ♪ Hoping and DORH ♪ ♪ Leading you to action ♪ against government officials so it's clear who's in charge of the government's reconstruction. [[You can't answer to your colleague!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101115	You can't answer to your colleague, you can answer to your colleague Pavić. Yeah? Thank you very much. She will now speak to a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, please. [[Grmoya raider: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101116	Ladies and gentlemen, this report unfortunately does not give a real picture of the situation in Croatian prisons. It hides the deficits of a prison system which acts against the standards of democratic and orderly states and does not meet the purpose of its existence and mission. Penalties are as the name tells them by institutions in which the convict executes the punishment for his illegal crimes, and his freedom has been taken away. During the execution of the sentence, the prison system shall have the task of resociating the person concerned in order to become a positive member of the society in which it lives again after the end of the sentence. It should therefore be made clear that prisons are institutions for breeding, but they are not torture facilities. Prisoners must not be harassed, or ghettoized because this is the way to repeat the offense which is harmful to the person himself as well as to society as a whole. A little less than 10 years ago, the judge of the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Professor Angelika Nussberger, interpreted the differences between the actions of the judiciary and the repressive apparatus in functional democracies and those countries believed to have democratic deficits. In 2013, she said that, for example, the requirements of the State Attorney's Office in Russia were adopted by courts in more than 90% of cases, while in countries such as Germany, Finland, etc. the procedure is often below 50%. The message is a clear judicial system that acts strictly under the law which guarantees civil freedom and the security of citizens in the legal order, and the state government has frameworks in which it must act. In this context, it also spoke of a prison system, of unacceptable conditions for prison convicts in Russia, and of decent and dignified conditions in the countries mentioned in Germany, Finland, etc. Because the loss of freedom is the greatest punishment for every man but a decent, civilised state respects every man and his human dignity and so does the convict. The Croatian prison system, however, works according to an outdated south model, which the mentioned professor calls democratic deficit. The people who run the prison system at the justice ministry, Jure Martinovic and Jure Zulj, as old south personnel, do not know democratic standards, nor human rights. For example, I am approached by families of convicts from Lipovica Penitentiary who tell me that prisoners do not allow them to have a sacred mass even on Christmas Day, and prison guards act inappropriately and aggressively towards those families when they visit their loved ones in that prison. Lipovica is otherwise an open-ended prison, and there is no need for aggressive and rude chicanking or prisoners, or their visitors, but the brutality that ordinary prisoners feel does not feel privileged powerful men. We all remember the status enjoyed in Croatia by the comfort killer Josip Perkovic. He's got the treatment of a social dignitary. When police brought him in when he was extradited to Germany, he was not even handcuffed by handcuffs, and the Saudi bully was walking around like he was going on a field trip. In Munich, a German police officer was welcomed with phantom hats on his head and long pipes and treated Perkovic as a terrorist because the organisation of someone's murder is an act of terrorism. I am here to conclude that the conjugal killers in Croatia are prominent persons, and these same persons in one Germany are treated as terrorists. The second case is the case of Radiir Cacic, otherwise the son of Milan Cacic, a Yugoslav prosecutor who processed Croatian students after MASPOK. This Cacic, or Cacic, who was convicted in Hungary, but who executed the punishment in Croatia, the press cameras found, for example, golfing in Istria. Again, evidence that the laws do not apply to the refugees and their children, but as non-indulgent laws do not apply to Croatian defenders, for example, rigorously apply. Let's remember General Đura Brodarac, a man with heart problems, he was placed at 40 degrees in a cell with seven prisoners. General Brodarac got a heart attack due to that torture and died. The Croatian state does not need totalitarian penitentiary but modern and efficient prison institutions that bring fallen people back on track. And that's why I'm against this report because he didn't give the right picture or offer solutions to the future. Croatia needs to invest in existing prisons to make them bearable to the prisoners. Croatia must also build new prisons because it will lack capacity when the time of the bill comes soon. This, the moment the laws are applied in Croatia and there is no untouchable part of today's ruling political judicial media octopus will certainly be in prison, and then Croatia will take big and fast steps in the better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101117	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101118	Yes, thank you, well-respected chairman. So that we can continue here on the words of the distinguished MP Vidovic Kristo and paraphrasing the somewhere saying, politicians as well as wine are better if they do a bit of time, right. I will deal with this report in these five minutes from perspectives we may not have pointed out enough. For example, in this report there are several extremely interesting sites related to disabled prisoners, so I'll just quote a few sentences from the report and then comment on them. Therefore, people with disabilities include those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage that can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others. On 31 December 2020, the final day of this report was understood, 6 persons with severe physical disability or persons with wheelchairs, 29 persons with limited movement using crutches or other aid. We've seen this before many times when they bring them to the court of crutches has particularly helped these from the spectrum of political prisoners almost inevitably. There are 16 people with impaired hearing, one person with impaired vision who uses a white stick, 7 is a person with multiple damage while 3 people were partially deprived of their business skills. During 2020, 8 people with severe physical disabilities, etc., and so on, numbers are really worrying and large in particular from the perspective when we consider calling them this and physically completely healthy or mentally healthy people it is difficult to understand to be inside a prison and repair system, we can imagine how disabled people are, and it is even more important that the real quality and accommodation and possibility of accommodation, the capacity of the system, the quality of all those within that system are employed and further advanced so that there are people with disabilities who were still easier to live within that system. Especially worrying are the data on drug addicts. Almost as a rule, drug addiction is directly linked to the conduct of criminal acts. The rate of relapse in this group is, of course, higher than in the general prison population. During 2020, a total of 1,219 inmates and drug addicts were present in the prison system, making up little more than 10% of the total, namely 10.5% of the total prison population. When we talk only about the people who were on a prison sentence during the year of drug addicts, there were 617 and in this subcategory of prisoners, they accounted for a proportion of 14.38%. On 31 December 2020, the sentence of juvenile prison or educational measure was expressed by 62 persons, 18 and 29%, respectively, of whom certain drug addiction methods were identified. problems caused by drug use. The indicators are clear, so in the adult population within the system, percentages range between 11% and 13% while in the juvenile population they are closer numbers 30, 29.03% which tells us clearly or teaches us minors are prone to enjoying and over or any use of drugs or opiates, and therefore, of course, to criminal or any other acts that can lead them into a prison or correctional system, and there is still a need for youth education, working with young people where once again as a home movement, we need to repeat family, family, family from that point of view most of all. Something about the very structure of the equipment of the criminal bodies and, of course, the budget items I'll say in the final presentation, since here I've come out of time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101119	We have one replica, stay here. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101120	Your Honor. It's a good thing you've turned your attention to drug addicts and I believe that in preparation for today's exposure you've been in contact with prison employees, so I'd like to ask you first your position, do you think these addicts should be placed in special facilities and what is the opinion of the employees who spoke to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101121	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101122	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Representative Pavić. When we talk about placing drug addicts in any of that intensity in a separate facility, personally I'm not in favour, but I suppose it would be about getting overskilled, and there certainly takes one much, much wider study and a lot more professional people than me. I think they still have certain inclusions in this way, and then, of course, it depends again on what is called money after all, or the means that can be provided to such people with adequate medical care and then psychosocial and any other care they need. The experiences of this dear friend of mine working in the Zagorje area, two nights she's on duty at the Varazdin Investigation Court, and then she's in the morning working at the Zlatar Court and all for 5.5 thousand kuna, I think what I've just said in this one sentence is quite enough to say what her experiences are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101123	Thank you. She will now speak to a respected representative, Anita Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101124	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look more closely at the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Only in 2020. 11607 people have gone through the prison system, and that number has been known to be over 12,000 for the past few years. At the end of 2020. in the prison system means penitentiaries, prisons and all others there were 2.558 employees, so over 14,000 users and employees are located in the prison system. So it's a big and important system that's 2020. had almost 550 million revenues of which 93.3% were from the state budget. It is a high price paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is therefore in our interest to have a quality prison system that will enable people to stay human and useful and training for life on the loose in accordance with the law and social standards in as few repeated criminal and other crimes as possible. It is therefore certainly important to cooperate with the prison and probation system, but also to work professionally and professionally with prisoners during the maintenance of the sentence as well as to enable basic and professional education, as well as to work during the maintenance of the sentence. About 26% of prisoners who perform various jobs and are paid for it are employed, and it is significant that a large part of the food products inmates produce themselves. I will give an example of the prison in Gospić, which also has the elements of the penitentiary because it has established a Department for the maintenance of long-term penalties. So as part of Gospić prison prisoners in isolated prison units, since the main building is in the city center, they grow sheep, goats and pigs and significant quantities of potatoes that supply the entire prison system, but some of it is sold on the market and income is realised. That's why at the level of the entire prison system about 30 million kunas are revenues from their own activity. The system is that it rests on a combination of technical equipment to provide conditions for the safe and human stay of prisoners, as well as prison officials who have to and have proven that they can respond quickly and ready to unexpected changes and increased scope of work. 2020 It has been extremely challenging for the prison system and for the coronary virus since it is a long-term stay in closed spaces, some prison facilities have become unusable due to the earthquake and prisoners have been moved to other facilities. Some prisons such as Gospić had additional challenges related to the migration crisis that continued since 2019. which meant a greater inflow of prisoners from other countries, whether they are trying illegally to cross the border, whether they are helping them, and they are rarely foreign citizens. It is about persons from different countries with prominent linguistic, cultural, religious and other differences that are important and a security risk to the prison system because there is also a person with a criminal past, and it is difficult to exchange data with the same with individual countries. In such situations prison facilities are also attended by members of opposing groups and peoples who need to be identified and prevented from radicalising and conflicting in prisons. It also increases the cost of the overall health system because foreign citizens who flee from their countries generally do not have health insurance, and they need medical examinations, therapy, etc. That is why prison in Gospić, along with other members of the judicial system, is an example of professional, dedicated and conscientious work in such difficult situations and can proudly thank them and commend them for the successful and still unfinished work that has been imposed on them by the migrant crisis combined with the coronary pandemic. The space for improving the conditions in the prison system has, has long not been significantly invested, and I hope that in the next financial perspectives, funds will be provided to improve the conditions in prisons and prisoners, but also to officials in the system because it is demanding jobs and difficult working conditions that include hard psychophysical engagement in the performance of jobs, it means prisoners of different characteristics, age groups, habits, behaviours, and perpetrators of various criminal and other acts located under the same roof, which certainly affects the burden of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101125	Thank you very much. We have more replicas believe it or not, he's the first respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Pocrnic Radošević, here you mentioned in your debate the Penalty in Gospić, which is certainly one of the strictest and most protected in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also a few segments and interesting. You said that the main building is located in the centre of the town in the centre of Gospić, that there is a closed part about the execution of long-term penalties, but there is also an open part of the half-free area where prisoners essentially do business, they deal with agriculture, they deal with livestock, it's certainly about their rehabilitation, but they also get about 1,000 kuna each month, and I think it's specific, maybe even in today's debate, how it comes from the penitentiary in the city center to the fact that the penitentiary takes care of itself, but also of the citizens around it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101127	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101128	Thank you for your rep, Comrade Mazhar. Here's exactly what you've mentioned several times in the penitentiary, that's what I would certainly like in Lika County to see prison in Gospić become a penitentiary because he currently has prison status, although he does all the jobs have the elements of the penitentiary because he has a special department for prisoners who maintain long-term prison sentences. There are also facilities outside Gospić, one about 30 kilometers away, one 3-4 kilometers away where these farm estates where the prisoners work and earn their own wages, now depends on what amount they earn, in this case I don't know, and certainly the Gospić prison is a good example of how, how the prisoners spend their time usefully, resocialize and keep working habits and thus are certainly more ready to return to the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101129	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101130	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, we see from the report that in the prison system and probationary offices there were total in 2020. 11.607 prisoners, of which there were 1,276 foreign. And in your own debate, you have exposed that they have certain needs and problems, so I ask you, is that an additional burden for our system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101131	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101132	Thank you, dear colleague Budinsky. Yes, I have also mentioned in recent years the inflow of foreign citizens into Croatian prisons. This applies particularly to prisons that are closer to the border areas, one of them is certainly the prison in Gospić, it is not only burdened with prison, the state's attorney's office, the court is also burdened, and then they all try as painlessly as possible and as quickly as possible to do work related to foreign citizens, and certainly it is harder for them to have no county court in Gospić, so they have to go to Karlovac, which creates additional costs of transportation and employment, but they have done it very, very well and certainly that with foreign prisoners it is much harder because of religious, cultural, linguistic and all other barriers they have to overcome, but here goes well in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101133	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here in the report it is evident that a significant percentage of people involved in the trial here is expressed 37%, and 63 persons also involved in the trial is between 23 and 45 years of age, so people are very active in life, and surely this is one situation and activity where the whole society must be included in general because it is not the aim of society's priority, punishment or revenge but of change, change itself and its behaviour. That is why I think it is commendable that other and civil society associations, institutions, educated, educational institutions as well as educational institutions are involved, and I also think that it is still necessary to apply further to European funds, especially from the Social Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101135	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101136	Yes, thank fellow Brcic, we are aware that, if it were not a point in the execution of the sentence itself, it must be carried out for the actions committed, but that stay at the execution of the sentence should mean some, some new, maybe some new, and some energy and swing in the lives of the prisoners who will learn some new patterns of behavior, change those old, those who have not completed any school to enable them to get out of school, mainly it is an vocational education, to enable them to work, to acquire and work habits, and that is why it is just important that both the cooperation and probation services and the prison systems that together and prepare prisoners to get out of prison, and after which they leave, are under the auspices of whether probational services are together with civil society associations And for all that... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101137	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101138	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here is a little bit of a description of the situation with the prison in Gospić, which are opportunities to do enough, there are examples of other prisons and penitentiary in Croatia and that is all ok, but we will agree that the bad conditions for prisoners, but also the hard working conditions for employees, are missing them etc.. In any case, it should be pointed out that a large number of prisoners who complain of very poor and hygienic conditions and accommodation conditions are staying in the bathrooms without doors and that those who are sentenced to minor sentences are often placed with those convicts for serious criminal offences, and in that case, the restoring ministry would have to take care of that more so as to increase the number of those who are likely to sue the Republic of Croatia. I've come across such cases where they haven't been paid to such prisoners who sued the Republic of Croatia, so you have examples of where prisoners are staying at the nearest an institution where conditions are worse. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101139	Thank you. Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101140	Thank you. My colleague Maric, to think I don't have it in front of me right now, but that I saw some of the prisoners complaining about the terms of the accommodation and that these lawsuits were dropped, those complaints were rejected. I don't think there were many of them, just a few, so I really don't know, I can't say what conditions are in prison because I wasn't, but I certainly know that Gospic prison in Gospic is, say, a prison in a building that was built back in the days of Austro-Hungarian mean in the last century and that I don't believe that there can be any special, special conditions there and that they are tight enough and that it should certainly extend their capacities both because of the provision of better conditions for prisoners and because of working conditions for employees who spend a significant part of working time there in closed spaces, but also for staying and visiting children who come to visit and similar. There's room for improvement anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101141	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101142	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues in 2020 were challenging for everyone as well as for the prison system. It was a year followed by Covid-19, but also by devastating earthquakes, but I'm going to look back at a part of your discussion, and it's about the work of the prisoners. And we can see in the report that, of course, during the reporting period, 884 prisoners were on average hired on average, which is about 26% of the prisoners employed. It is organized through workshops, and much of it is produced by prisoners themselves, which you have mentioned through Gospić or the prison system in Gospić. We can see this as well as the penitentiary in Pozega by the incomes that are here in this report that we're doing just as good a job, but here I'm going to return to the systematization of the jobs you've been talking about. how much investment in personnel can improve the system. [[Upadica: Thank you very much, distinguished representative Pocrnic Radošević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101143	Thank you, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101144	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk, the question remains to hang in the air, but I think you wanted to ask how much investment in the prison system can help at the end and resociation and more usefully spent time in prison. Of course, that's good, and that's why I mentioned in my debate that about 26% of the prisoners participate in various types of prison affairs. These are the jobs they are capable of and who know how to work outside or for which they have acquired expertise in the prison system. Here Gospić is a really good example, they mainly deal with agriculture, but they also provided some craft services, but it certainly depends on the structure of the prisoners, because of course there is a fluctuation and that they are changing and that you do not always have masters for certain things, and now it depends on what activities they will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101145	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101146	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Secretary, through my debate I will try to explain to you as well as to those who are following us why I asked you a question about the motivation and security of your employees. Other employee data include data on the systematisation and filling of these systematicised jobs, and these data show that currently work for 2.558 employees at the Department of the Prison System, and we have them systematised 3.558. This means that the filling of these jobs is slightly less than 72% and that slightly higher than 28 jobs, this percent of jobs are unfulfilled. You yourself have stated that in all departments, penitentiaries, prisons, educational institutions and centres there are vacant systematic jobs that make it difficult for employees to carry out prison detention jobs. In the report, we can see between other data and data on cooperation with trade unions where 8 unions with a total of 2,076 members are said to operate in the prison system, resulting in more than 81% of employees being organised through trade unions or members of unions. This large percentage of employees who are members of the union may point to various conclusions, but since I haven't conducted any employee surveys or I've had contact with the trade unions, I don't want to make them a shortcut. However, what I can tell you as chairman of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership, what I can ask you, what I can appeal to is that employees in the system are given more or more special attention and that as responsible persons, try to draw attention to your superiors and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to problems in the system and start solving them as soon as possible. Do not forget how important, how difficult and how responsible your employees do daily, and how obliged you are to provide them as you yourself stated in the mission clearly set goals, a secure workplace, or a secure working environment, and to be motivated. Now, let me explain to you why this whole introduction through a little review that's only going on in your system for one job. As you know, among other things in your system, you have the education of prisoners and minors. You know that prisoners are encouraged to complete education in order to better integrate into the social community and to implement the training of prisoners in cooperation with external educational institutions, but also to organise training in penitentiary and prisons. This training is done by professional teachers who have a coefficient of 0.92. What does that mean? This means that without a 25% supplement, they would receive a minimum wage or minimum wage because their salary is with an addition of 5,200 kuna, which is far below the average of the profession. And now you put yourself in the shoes of an informer who works in a prison whose wages are off your system range from about 7 to 8 thousand kuna and it pays 5,200 kuna there. For now, their benefit is plus 4 months, and under the new rule it would only be two months while the amount of jobs remains the same or greater. And most importantly, do not forget that work continues to be maintained with prisoners in immediate danger, professional teachers do not have a self-defense exam and often work with prisoners without supervision near dangerous tools and tools. I believe it is clear to you that only motivated employees can carry out their duties on general satisfaction. According to the current state of the system, employees carry out their tasks and their work not because the employer or manager motivated them, but now the tasks are fulfilled because of the enthusiasm of employees and the quality of the cooperation of employees with direct managers. This must change as soon as possible and for reasons which are very well known to all of you and the Minister and those responsible for the prison system in the prison system administration. So once again I appeal, urgently make sure you fix the working conditions in which your employees work before some... an event that will throw all your efforts and efforts of your employees into another plan. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101147	And on your show we have more replicas, she is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101148	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have listed a number of important matters and important problems that exist in the system regarding the number of employees, I hope the Secretary of State has heard the appeal. It would especially highlight the amazing fact that our colleague Kekin told us what the number of beds in the prison hospital and how many employees there really are, means not only the doctor, there's also a problem with nurses, nurses, nurses and nurses, but it's just amazing to me how much it really takes for the rest of the ministry and the government to realize that it's high time to improve the working conditions, that these employees, as you said themselves, are motivated, and the secretary himself replied in the reply that the salaries are small for these healthcare professionals and try to increase them, so that they didn't increase them sooner, means not only for the medics but also for the other employees. What is your comment and final line and advice to the Secretary of State when will the food be started to improve the conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101149	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101150	Yes, it's a good thing you've turned your attention to medical staff as well. In fact, when I talked about it, it might be more correct if I said that all civilian persons in the service of the system are in a very unfavourable position, and that is how the medical workers who are here are exposed to various influences on the side. Unfortunately, there are also our employees who need psychophysical help, who have problems with this, and I'm not going to list everything we heard and what it looked like when we were preparing for this debate, and I was also doing one video of the state of the prison system five, six, seven years ago. and then I passed almost all the penitentiary in Croatia and I know what I came across, and the situation hasn't changed. What actually disappointed me is that in this entire report, employees are dedicated only to that dung, dung 3 pages in which nothing really shows what the real situation is with the employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101151	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101152	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So, fellow Pavić, in your debate, you led the main debate on the subject of the so-called Civil personnel working in the prison system and here is the main question, which is the motive of someone to report to the competition at all and go to work because it's really about the specific conditions to be absolutely clear you said that they should pass some kind of course or self-defense or something like that, but let's take it aside. So, it's always a question of what we want, are we going to have a health, prison system where we have prisoners and someone who keeps it safe or we want to build up education, prepare for some kind of socialization, prepare for when he's leaving prison, actually the theme that he never comes back again, for that to really be a whole bunch of other professions, and what's the motive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101153	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101154	Without, without all these factors that you've listed, there's no turning prisoners back into society, there's just no socialization, he's got to finish school, you've got a lot of inmates who don't have a finished primary school, whether it's minors or older people. You have a large number of inmates who don't have finished high school and those inmates who finish high school, who especially train for some occupations, they're the ones who are actually troublesome because they're being treated by civilians with, in a situation where they are, and that means they haven't completed a self-defense course, which they don't even need. Why don't they need them? Because there should be a person who would guard them because there has to be insurance there, but we see and we're missing 1,000 and then we have a problem, we have a problem shooting at all stitches.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101155	Thank you. Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Pavic, therefore on 31.12.2020, only 71.89% were filled with these employees in penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions. I remember when I was at the Ministry of Defence that, that she was, in fact, a big constituency for employment at a penitentiary in Clay that it was a very desirable job and that they were looking for potential future employees to confirm the status of defenders thinking that it would help them with future employment. What actually happened now that has become eloquent and unwanted employment in penitentiary and prisons? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101157	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101158	We know that the redistribution of employees in the state administration has made one large number of employees especially from the Customs Administration go to work in the prison system because the conditions were good. However, there was a neglect of the system. The wages remain the same, they didn't grow, the conditions that are related to uniforms, to cars, for the system itself have actually collapsed so much compared to other institutions that it's something amazing. Unfortunately, there is no record of this, and we need to be aware that this system, regardless of all possible standards that we will meet, regardless of the squares we will have per prisoner, will not be able to function without employees. And today, employees, or possibly new employees, are no longer interested in working in penitentiary offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101159	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101160	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Pavić, a little more data from the report. Average cost per prisoner in kuna 2016 total of 49 kuna 83 June, 2020 50 kuna 62 June, which is a five-year increase of 1.6% and this report is for 2020. We're actually getting inflation here, the spectacular rise in energy prices that we just need to experience. We'll see and we'll see what's going on with the rise in food prices, so maybe one of your forecasts is how will the report we're going to listen to in this place next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101161	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101162	One of our colleagues said the forecasts were ungrateful and he wouldn't want to give them away, but I think we all know if one big shift doesn't happen that we're going to have a big problem in that system. You said it yourself. So the cost increases by 3 kuna. If we look at how much inflation was, inflation at the level of the year is more than two, three kunas. So, what are we doing? What street are we taking this system to? Which way are we leading this system? What are we gonna do about that system? Who's going to work in that system? Nobody wants to work there anymore. People are just leaving, looking for a chance to move into other institutions. However, here is the current situation, and that is why I have appealed to Mr. Secretary and the associate of the lady who is in charge of this system in the ministry to do something and to respond to both the government and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101163	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101164	Thank you, dear colleague. Many today have been talked about the lack of judicial officers, so three and a half thousand were systematically systemized, and two and a half thousand were actually employed. There's been a lot of talk about their low wages, about inadequate care of the justice police system. But I would ask you to comment on the same important aspect, which is, that fact and that small number of judicial officers. As this reflects and relates to the life and work of the prisoners we expect to re-enact, of whom we expect to re-enter the community. How does this apply to their human rights if they live in a system and they have to be in a system where there are simply no law enforcement officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101165	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101166	The question is really in place. What we have been able to learn from this system through the conversations we have had over the past few weeks, is that actually, judicial officers who are actually working harder and more suffering and have to do more work. They must also do jobs for which they are not in charge and in such a way that they should not do it. If you've been listening to Mr. Dretar's statement, the esteemed representative of Dretar, I apologize, Davor, if you've been listening to his testimony, then he's just been talking about what's going on and how the judicial police are currently working in prisons. Although I think that letter was sent a few years ago, but the situation is currently in our penitentiary, in our prisons even worse than it was back then. And I believe that both the secretary and the lady in charge of the ministry system will really do something to fix it, to change it in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101167	Now, individual debates will be held by the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101168	Thank you. In this report, which in itself is already pointless because we are discussing the 2020 report. But we know that it is already an established and poor practice for rulings to be constantly late with reports from various public institutions or systems. We had to remind ourselves of the voting plan for the past year, and that was the highlight of absurdity. And it was clear that this poor practice of delaying the report would continue uninterruptedly. Of course, it is clear to all that such a delay is losing ground, which is that the debate gives guidance to improve the work of systems or individual institutions. So in this late report we've repeated this many times, it's obviously very important if we all repeat that we have 71.89% of law enforcement. It's already in itself I'm going to repeat I don't know which time is worrying, because there's a shortage of so-called. The security guard certainly acts exactly as we did on the quality of working with the prisoners in the penitentiary and in prisons as well as on the status of human rights and their living and working conditions, hence the prisoners themselves. But what doesn't have any information that's being controlled by the work of judicial officers? We have no doubt that the vast majority of their hard and responsible work does honorably and responsibly. However, there are individuals and individuals who violate the rules and laws and favor prisoners are presumed to be counterservice. The last such example is the Daruvarac case, which means the brutal beating of an 18-year-old girl in Zadar, the perpetrator was released for good behavior after only a little over three years in prison and was not even banned. In one reply to the replica, the State Secretary today said it was a matter of the judiciary. But it's not all that. In fact, the criminal administrations and prisons give an opinion, and without a positive opinion, it is not possible to obtain early parole on the loose. In particular, the request for parole states that the prisoner is D.K. The penalty began to endure with an assessment and was successful in modeling conduct and conduct. It was stated that he respected domestic law and prison rules, showed a high degree of responsibility and specifically treated himself, properly treated officials and other inmates with whom he shared accommodation. However, it has been reported in the media that within the prison system, however, there are certain objections to his service of punishment and obtaining consent to conditional leave, which they are all familiar with in the competent ministry and the very summit of the Administration of the Prison System. In a number of performances and complaints which have been filed during 2020, the disputed treatment of a judicial officer who is in family relations with a person in a leading position at the Department of Prison System. The police officer has been at work in several prisons and penitentiary within the system, but the problem is that in each individual, she has been bonding with people deprived of freedom. Because of its private relationship with persons from the criminal mileage, a number of irregularities and illegality have been reported in its professional conduct for several years. That's what all the leading levels within the prison system have warned her colleagues about, but all she did was move her into another institution within the system, media say. In these reports, there is no mention of such cases, which does not mean that there are no individual cases. There's no mention of control of the work of law enforcement officers. The case of a law enforcement officer who, according to media, has a family member from the Department of the Prison System himself talking about serious violations of the rules and laws. But the most dangerous thing is that in this particular case, a man who has been released who has easily obtained his excellent grades by corrupting and guessing and has not received a restraining order. So what now? Who'll be responsible if there's a violation of parole and there's a retaliation to the victim? And what about the victim who reads about it in the media and now lives in fear of being attacked again by the Daruvarian? So we think it should be disabled Repeated case of a cop with a family member from the prison system management. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101169	We have replicas, distinguished MPs, Dark Taritate first. Here you go. [[Thank you. Yeah, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101170	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. In fact, I wanted to ask you something else, but I can't take the impression right now, and yet to end up developing the thought, or what you're going to say about this case that's recently been the Daruvarac case that's been filling the media lately, and in the media, it's opened up and the problem has opened up. So what should be the interest of the system that it doesn't, so the interest that should be from the media is because this is all if it's an individual case all right, which if it isn't. So the interest of the system should always be such that the less there are these individual cases and such cover-up or putting things under the carpet, when you put too much snap and fall on your own nose, which is what it is, and in this one report you should be sure to refer to, have those who submit the report about it to you and tell you what they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101171	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101172	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues, for asking or commenting. Yes, as far as this particular police force is concerned, it's a time-consuming situation in the media, and it must have lasted in 2020. So, these kinds of violations, let's just say the word "bounce," I don't want to and can't argue that it's majority behavior, none of us can say that, I really hope it isn't, but the fact that there is and that such things should not only be warned in these reports but take much, much more severe sanctions to prevent the consequences of such behaviour because the consequences are very serious. We don't know what's going to happen now, and we have the right to suspect a possible threat to the victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101173	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101174	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. So, from the data contained in this report on the work of the probation service, we read that for a large number of crimes that are not benign at all, there was a measure of work for the general good, for example for the crime against life and the body, and then a criminal offence against marriage, family, children or, say, sexual abuse, child abuse, etc. And so in a number of cases as far as I'm concerned, if we send a good message as a society if we are able to abuse a child at all, we determine the punishment or measure of a few hours of community service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101175	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101176	Thank you. So, of course, what you asked me, dear colleagues, is the question of the judiciary, the judiciary that is the cancer of this society's wounds, the justice that doesn't work unfortunately, and which is why this society can't move forward. There are many things we can blame the judiciary, but yes, I agree with you, the worst and most disgusting impunity is deserved and enough of those who have done anything to children. I don't have the strength or repeat what you said. And indeed, the work of several hours of some kind of help in some civil society is really a shame for this society and for the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101177	We are now going to the final presentations, first of all the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, and the Honorable Representative Željko Pavić will speak, please welcome When this point is over, we have three more speakers, so when we're done with the point. [[Clip intrusion: Free Talks don't go?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101178	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear secretary, I will continue to defend employees in your system and I will only draw attention that we have here an exhibition from the ranks of the assembly majority where it was written or was said to be progressing, to move forward, but your data shows that we are not going forward into the system, especially not going forward with the number of employees. If you look at the data in the report, then you'll see that the report says that 2020. You have the minimum number of employees back in the 6th year, from 2016 to 2020 you have the lowest number of employees in 2020. Instead of going in this direction in a positive direction instead of making progress, we're actually going back and putting the system in danger, putting people in danger, putting them in an unfavourable position, both prisoners and employees. Furthermore, I would draw attention to the fact that the planned means of probation and the prison system in the budget are smaller. Here's the question for you and your associate, have you tried the prime minister, have you tried to distract the minister that these funds are not enough, have you tried to say that you have too few employees, that this number of employees currently cannot do their job properly? It's our job to draw attention to the fact that even prisoners who are supposed to be reintegration into society tomorrow, who should... begin socialization and those who follow them, who keep them from functioning normally. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone here was talking about standards, no matter what our standards, what are we gonna need squares per prisoner if we don't have employees to do our jobs? Without those employees, no job, no prison system, no penitentiary. Therefore, I appeal, please do something to move in a positive direction, to raise wages, to improve working conditions or to work conditions and to work on what is necessary for our employees. Let's start with the uniform. We almost meet these people in town every day because they bring prisoners to court and we see how they're dressed, we see what kind of cars they're driving in, and I don't talk about sometimes very often they have to take care of those cars themselves even though it's not their job. Why? Because there are no people who should do the job. We had this question from my colleague Maric about medical staff. I don't know if you know, if you don't know, I'll tell you. Do you know that replacement therapy is shared by guards, that replacement therapy isn't shared by medical personnel because medical staff isn't enough and then we're surprised when there's an overdose and sometimes even death. Therefore, you must act in this direction to change these conditions. I don't know if you'll be able to attract new people into that system if it's a salary, an initial salary for a trainee of 3,600 kuna, for 5 years. An internship has a man's salary of 5,300 kuna and 25 years old. 6,500 kuna, that's the current situation in that system. You set one example that employees have a salary and up to 10,000 kunas, they may have, but those people who are guards without any benefits extra, without some position have the salaries I've now dictated here, you can check it out, it's not, it's not hard to check. I've already turned my attention to cars, I've turned my attention to, to uniforms, so I ask you again, to draw attention to the minister and to whether the current or the new one is coming or this one, if this one remains both for the Prime Minister and the government itself, that something must be done in that system, because without new good people in that system, there is no survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101179	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101180	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's to the end of this debate today, Mr. Secretary of State. Associates, colleagues and colleagues, anything to conclude fits on this small piece of paper, which is two attitudes of the Homeland Movement. So, please, we ask, we demand, however and in any form you wish to equalise the rights of judicial officers and police officers with the police or all services under the authority of the MUP. Secondly, at the first next budget rebalancing, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will request an increase in the budget for personal incomes, i.e. I call on all parliamentary parties to consensus because it is about our Croatian society and extremely important people who are doing hard and incredibly responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101181	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101182	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, Your Honor, Today we discussed two annual reports for 2020 – Report on the state of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and the report on the work of the probation service. Performing probational tasks is a probationary service consisting of the Central Prosecution Office and 14 probation offices in the Republic of Croatia covering the headquarters of one or more counties, i.e. areas of county courts. 104 employees are employed, of which 92 are in probation offices. On the day of 31.12.2020, each probation officer who has a total of 63 has an average of 57 items. Probation service received 3497 new items during 2020, and at the end of the year they had 3557 items. The persons involved in the trial worked 410837 hours for the general good for which 1371 legal persons were available. Probation jobs have been designated as jobs of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, and are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community from the perpetrators of the crime, their resociation and reintegration into the community. Probation offices monitor the enforcement of obligations towards the resolution of the state's attorney, organise and oversee the work for the general good, oversee paroled convicts. Probation jobs are also carried out when deciding on criminal prosecution, the choice of the type of punishment and the execution of penalties imposed on the perpetrators. During the decision on conditional discharge and in the approval of the convenience of the exit, the Probation Service report as well as for a whole series of other judicial system activities shall also be requested. It is indeed a large range of jobs where human factors are important, so it is a good thing that in 2020 education for probationary officials is realised. It also launched a three-year project as well as two other projects from the European Social Fund, which should help strengthen competences and acquire new knowledge and skills of probationary officials. The second report refers to a prison system that is much more abundant by the number of perpetrators and the number of users. During 2020, 11607 prisoners of various formal legal status went through the prison system, down almost 8% compared to 2019, while the number of prisoners on the last day of 2020 was lower by two prisoners compared to the previous year. The prison system is dominated by male prisoners with 94%, consistent with trends in recent years. All tasks with the maintenance of prisoners' sentences in penitentiary, institutions, educational establishments and centres were carried out by 258 employees of the 3558 systematization, representing a 72% fill-up. Until the next report, we hope that the fullness will increase to make it possible for employees to work better, but also to care for prisoners. In 2020, it was particularly demanding in terms of prevention and protection against coronary viruses, since prisoners and employees of the prison system are mostly in closed spaces, and therefore the successful implementation of all recommended measures and activities so that the system can function properly. One part of the prison facilities became unusable because of an earthquake in Banovina, so prisoners were moved to other bodies, which was certainly an additional effort, cost and burden for employees who are doing anyway stressful, psychophysically stressful and hard day-to-day work, and exceptional circumstances make it even more difficult. It is therefore necessary to invest additional efforts in the development of human potentials as well as spatial and technical capacities throughout the entire prison system. The next-mentioned Croatian Democratic Community club will support the reports in question for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101183	That concludes the debate on these points. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met. We're going to take a technical break from five minutes, so by 13.20 and then we're going to take a stand on behalf of the counsel club. It's 13,15 o'clock. Comrade Grmoi, thank you, thank you very much, fellow Grmoi thank you very much you have missed your time, thank you very much. This will be a debate here, here in this hall you'll all have opportunities, we'll all have opportunities to discuss it. There's gonna be a debate here. So I don't see what the problem is, you're going to be able to expose your position that you've now had very short time to expose, you're going to be able to expose it for long and wide, you're going to argue, etc., so we're going to have a debate about it, right? And this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up about it, right? This is, therefore, respected representatives and MPs pursuant to Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Justice Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to conduct a joint debate on the points 1 and 2 of the agenda foreseen for today, these are: - Report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2020 and - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2020 Are you agreeing to unite them? Yes, it is. Thank you. No, and the question no, is it just whether you agree or not? Yes, please, in that case, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101186	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Allow me to, on behalf of not only the Homeland Movement, but I assume both all MPs and MPs only make a proposal that, since the debate is a 15-minute discussion of the presentation of the club representatives of the permit in a time period of 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101187	I don't see any problem if other colleagues agree and think it's necessary. Personally, I don't think it's necessary, but if other colleagues think it's necessary to discuss it so long and wide. ... Well, we tend to when the points of such a character require a little wider discussion, but okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here he is, since, are you all okay with that? Yeah, great, then on behalf of the clubs we'll talk for 15 minutes. So, since this is not here, I'm saying that we're going to have a united debate on these points, and the clubs are going to talk like we said for 15 minutes. The applicant of these reports shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 4. Probation Act and Article 9. Laws on law enforcement. It's an argument, a prison, a pardon. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. If the applicant wants to give an additional explanation, yes, we have a request for a break, a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101188	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Club of Croatia, I am looking for a break of at least 10 minutes for reasons because I think it is very important today to say that this report is completely incorrect and not in accordance with the rules made, so it is missing. First of all, I'm going to look back at the employee section, so when employees of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and centres of the prison system administration and we're missing as much as 1,000 in our system, you won't find much in this report, and that's an extremely serious problem. On the other hand, in the trial report, we lack data on funding, so we are talking about projects, but you have no record of how money was spent, you do not have the same part that talks about associations that were in collaboration with the probation office, so we do not know how these associations were selected, there are no data on how they were used, so in which way they were financed, in which amounts, there are no data on the sources of funding of the projects that you mention, they gave direct candidates, the office with its projects directly ran to European funds or through the implementation of our national authorities. There is also a lack of data on work and inter-resorship cooperation with other bodies, social care centres, health institutions, educational institutions and the like. I find such a report totally unacceptable, and I feel that I have been obliged to warn this problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101189	Thank you very much. Of course I'll grant you a break. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. we will continue to work, so as I said, would the rapporteur, the applicant's representative, want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101190	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. In front of you is the report on the work and state of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and centres for 2020, as well as the report on the work of the probation service for 2020. What I can say for both of you is that, as you know, it's 2020. It was a challenging year for all of us at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and so on in the prison system and probation system, and it's about the covida-19 pandemic. We are in the prison system, which is the most important for you HS representatives to maintain the state of security at the highest level, and we have entrusted us with the tasks provided by these two laws, and we have also ensured that this pandemic of covida-19 does not spread so much in the prison system because we have to make sure that more than 3,000, almost 4,000 people in the system, so it was necessary to keep this system safe and healthy for those who support the prison sentence as well as for those of our employees who are employed in the prison system and I can say here that in 2020, as in the years of '21, and this day we have dealt well with it. As far as 2020 is concerned, 11,607 prisoners were present in the prison system and probation administrations. The sentence of prison held by adult persons who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 4.291 persons, the sentence of prison carried out by adult persons who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings 415 or another court proceedings is the sentence of imprisonment which has been replaced, replaced and fined 120, and criminally... 1554. Penalty of 20 persons in juvenile prison, an educational measure of reference to an educational institution given to juvenile perpetrators of criminal acts 97, and measures of an investigative prison 5.110 persons. As far as investigative prison is concerned, there is a lot of controversy about it, so about 50 to 60% of the people who support prison sentences refer to investigative prison. As such, the investigation prison is in the jurisdiction of the courts or judges, so the Ministry of Justice and the Administration of the Prison System has no authority to do so in view of our capacity in the prison system as far as the person will be found in an investigation prison, the court decides in the proceedings conducted by judges in various criminal proceedings. So as far as the public defender's report on the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons in the prison system is concerned, we can say that in view of our capacities, we are trying to increase this in these years, or in 2021, and those that today, we are saying that capacities are increasing because it is true that at some point more prisoners are found in the prison system than our capacities are, but therefore the court decides. We are trying to ensure that these fundamental human rights, health conditions and all that we can provide for people in the investigative prison are at the highest level, respecting legal standards, but what would be some kind of European norm about 4 square meters per person is not possible at some point, even though I say health status, security status, everything is at the level at which it can be tolerated. As regards juvenile prison in 2020, There were 19 prisoners and one inmate on the execution of a juvenile prison sentence. In minors, crimes against property are dominated by 60%, crimes against life and the body 30%, and acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of children 10%, the highest age of 45.45% has a sentence between one and 3.g. As regards minors in the 2020 investigative prison, In all, 45 minors and 6 minors were in prison of investigation. The most reprehensible are crimes against property, robbery, and theft. The average time of stay of a minor in an investigative prison was one month and 24 days. Relation of the number of prisoners to a judicial police officer on 31 December 2020 It is 2.30 prisoners to one judicial police officer, however, taking into account the calculation of the relationship only of those crimes in which the insurance department is set up, the relationship is somewhat more favourable, which is 2.2 prisoners to one judicial police officer. So we're aware of our officers' need to fill in considering the number of prisoners. We're around 70 new people in the justice police system and we're trying, so we've changed the Penal Code to... a cop before it was an age limit of 25 years that we've now raised to 30 years. As far as the financial report is concerned, revenues from the competent budget for the financing of regular activity are 512 million 344 thousand kuna, their own revenues are 30 million 061 thousand kuna. What you need to know is that we are in the prison system conducting different treatments for our prisoners, one of the treatments is that so-called. Work therapy. These own incomes of our own are a lot of prisoners in the prison system if they want to do certain jobs, according to their capabilities and what they might be doing, they're paid for that job and it counts as working therapy within the prison system. The prison system what we are incomeing is large agricultural holdings and products that we produce are all used to feed prisoners in our prison system, so in this report you see that this is an income of 30 million kuna. As for the difference between income and expenditure, that's 7 million 406 thousand kuna. As far as the report on the work of the probation service is concerned, this is the report on the work of the prison, the penitentiary, the educational institutions are being delivered to the probation service. Probation service is one of our most important services. The Croatian Prosecution Service today plays an important role within the Croatian criminal justice system, achieves co-operation and acts on the demands of state lawyers, courts, judges, courts, penitentiaries and prisons by providing the necessary information in the decision-making process by carrying out sanctions on measures in the community. We have a central office in Zagreb and 14 probation offices, which enables you to carry out probation work for the entire country. As regards the items received in 2020 39.18% of the cases received relate to the preparation of the report at the request of the judge of enforcement, 23.76% of the cases refer to the work of the general good, 12.18% of the cases on parole, 12.84% of the cases on probation with protective supervision, 4.75% of the enforcement of obligations under the resolution of the state attorney, 3.12% of the execution of a partial sentence with protective supervision of a special mandatory security measure. As far as the probation service is concerned, we have 104 employees, and of which 12 officials in the central office, 92 in probation offices, and 14 heads in the probation offices are involved. As for hours of work in 2020. A total of 410.837 hours have been done for general good in hospitals, Caritas, companies of the Croatian Red Cross, municipal enterprises and other institutions with which the probation service has a contract. As you know this year 2020, because of the epidemiological reasons, there has been a change in the termination of some contracts, we have not been able to fully carry out our tasks as a probation service. The Croatian Prosecution Service last year celebrated 10 years of its work and we can say that it is one of the most important institutions when it comes to these systems where persons who come with these mild sentences of prison are rehabilitated and return to normal life in the community in view of the actions they have committed. As regards the financial resources for the normal functioning of the probation service during 2020, A total of 15 million 355 thousand 788 kuna were spent, most of which were spent on the salaries of our officials. So we propose to HS that prison system and probation services report for 2020. Take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101191	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First respected representative of Mazer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101192	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State. Here you yourself have said that as far as investigative prisons are concerned, or the capacity for the judge to execute and make decisions of the court are, in a way, related to the charge of investigative prisons. On the other hand, we have seen that at present in the process of public procurement of electronic bracelets, if I have seen well about 200 pieces, I am also referring to the provisions of the Penal Code which prescribe and enforce the sentence in the home. Since we have legal acts, regulations, and in some ways it does not apply, can you say something about that part, and is there any possibility that it might release capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101193	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101194	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Ministry of Justice and Administration therefore that is correct, we are now in the process of completing public procurement for the first set of 200 electronic surveillance bracelets. It's primarily like I said in the report on a large number of investigating prisoners about 60% in the prison system. Not every investigative prison is suitable for maintenance in its own home, some crimes are such that it must be in an investigative prison, however, there is a lot that could do so. Therefore, there are certain legal rules in the Criminal Procedure Act, as far as the prison is concerned, it is also necessary to pass that detention of prisons in your own home. We are now in the process of completing this procurement and I believe we will during 2022. It's got to be. As for maintaining a prison sentence right in the house, we're going to lay down regulations during this year, and I believe that those provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act will begin to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101195	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101196	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the report, you stated that the largest increase in individual crimes in the investigating prison is a crime of threat and that it is in fact almost 22% increase, compared to 2019. 25%. Now I'm curious about this large percentage of the crime in the prison of investigation that you've analyzed these crimes, in fact, who's threatening, are these threats to journalists, politicians or any other threats? If they're journalists, then we're in big trouble as a demographic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101197	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101198	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now maybe that's your personal conclusion. As regards the prison of investigation and the measures taken in accordance with the positive rules of law in the criminal sphere, you know that this is not decided by the Ministry of Justice and Administration but decided by the court, so the determination of the measure of the criminal prison is in the hands of the judge when it comes to various criminal acts and thus the criminal offence of the threat. So we're statisticalally leading this to what, what are the crimes for the persons found in the prison system, but the assessment of the court is whether, in a specific case, it is necessary to determine the measure of the prison investigation. So I don't think that's specific about one category of people who's been threatened. These are various individuals, various crimes in the sphere of public life. So it's not just about the press, it's about everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101199	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101200	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned, and it is evident from the report that the number of judicial officers at the end of 2020 was 1.551 and that the situation was satisfactory, given that a judicial police officer comes in 2.3 or 2.2 of the prisoners depending on the calculation. And it is also said that almost 28% of the systematic jobs are unfulfilled and that there are vacant jobs making it difficult for employees to carry out their regular jobs in the execution of prison sentences. Now what are the jobs where there are the most missing workers, can they be filled and whether the situation may be better now than it was when you submitted the report for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101201	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is about the largest number of lacks of judicial police in the prison system. So these are the people who are in direct contact with the prisoners, the people who support the prison sentence. We're somewhere a year filling up about 70 people who are employed in the prison justice system. I said we raised that age of life that it could be 30 years of life. It's very difficult for us, so a lot of people in the public tender, but they have to meet certain conditions. What's good and what I can say today refers to in 2022, with me here is the director of the Department of Prison System and Prosecution, we are returning that high school to the judicial police we have in collaboration with the MUP. It is our duty and duty to educate new personnel, young people to enter the prison system. Like the Croatian police, they are entrusted with a special task of taking care of people who are on this side of the law, but still have a normal life after that. So we're working on as much as we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101203	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101204	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, we can see that the problem and the probation offices, and what is the problem in Croatia, I think, is a very big problem in the Varazdin County or the alarm can even say in Varazdin and Međimurje County, and the probation office in Varazdin is one of the offices with the largest number of convicts that only four employees care about. We see from the report that 391 of this item has been received, which turns out to be 4 officers of 97 items, and the average in Croatia is 57 items per employee, so I ask you nicely what the problem is. I know the problem is that it's not easy to find employees because it's a very difficult job because you're in the field, and it depends on your opinion whether you're going to be released or extended to prison, so I'm asking you what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101205	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101206	Thank you well-respected MPs it is your connected system as well as what I have just responded to by the MPs. So we try to increase that number of people, our employees from year to year, following the number of cases. You know that we are limited by the total financial resources related to the prison system or prison system and probation and in general to the Ministry of Justice and Administration. So we're trying to get as many people into the system as possible, but it's done on an annual basis. The situation has changed a lot since 2020. I can say that the probation service also has certain resources that we receive from our international cooperation and projects. Most of the Norwegian financial mechanism. We've done a lot, we're aware of the need to hire people, but here I'm saying it's a connected system that applies to both the prison system and the probation system, and today the situation is much better than it is in this report for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101207	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101208	The Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, is a trial of the conduct of persons who are at risk after giving a criminal measure or leaving a closed-type institution, so probation is a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of a crime. What is the percentage of those who repeat crimes, re-regisist, how to prevent it? Do you, after repeating the crime of the same or other, increase the sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101209	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101210	... Your Honored representative, what you said and in the supervisory departments and the court when a person gets a chance to go on parole, early parole, which is what the court decides, so those persons are not released so that they do what they want, they are under surveillance, if they therefore deviate from the rules relating to what you said they are returning to prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a large number of people who are relapsers, but there are. So the system in which we all work is like life. So different people go in. Not every prison is equal to a prison, not every prisoner is the same prisoner, and not every person entering the digestive system is the same person. So we're trying to rehabilitate in that general system of persons, to understand what they've done to get them back to life. However, you have a certain percentage of people who have been in the prison system for many years and can say live freely in that system. So it's a rule unfortunately, but here's our duty to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and try to re-raise people, but sometimes it's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101211	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101212	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Thus, the Social Care Act lays down obstacles to working in social care activities. On the basis of the same, it is stated that in social care, work cannot be carried out by a person who has previously been legally convicted of those taxful offences provided for in the criminal law itself, and at the same time these persons determine our work for the common good and in homes for the elderly and the powerless, and then in hospitals, in centres for education and education. How is that acceptable to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101213	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101214	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I don't know that these people are doing their work for the greater good in the way you said. So, when the work for the general good is determined, it is not so casual and memorized, so there are special services, and commissions that decide what kind of person can go when determining the work for the general good, where the work for the general good is done. It's not just that someone's being sent off the list. A lot of this is being checked and there are professional services that take care of how it is carried out. So you know that executive power doesn't have much influence on that. It is the court's decision when it comes to such punishment, and our officers in the probation service are therefore taking care of where a person can go and where he must go. And you must know that this independence of the judicial authority and the court in the ruling is not in the hands of the executive authority, but of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101215	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101216	In Croatia, we have thousands of valuable, capable and educated persons who are either unemployed or inadequately engaged and have no compromised past. They're not needed by your ministry. You still get people out of retirement who have a southern batin history such as a certain Jure Zulj, a man who had to leave your ministry following the 2014 affair. But in 2021, he was reactivated from retirement and returned to the Department of Justice, and that's right in the Department of the Prison System. The Zulj, of course, has no references from Denmark or Austria, but from the South-Communist prison regime. Considering that your Secretary of State Juro Martinović has learned the law in the JNA system, the question is what are your criteria so that someone in 2022 could be a factor in the Croatian judiciary which Croatian and relevant European institutions consider to be the main culprit for all Croatian problems. Is it a prerequisite for a war in the judicial system that a person worked in UDBA, KOS, Securitate, HGB or Stazi? Why do you hire compromised pensioners, not educated professionals at a working age?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101217	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101218	Thank you very much, Vice President. What can I tell you? If we were to see who was born in the former Yugoslavia, in the former South, who had completed a school, where we would have a problem. No, I'm with myself, I'm with everyone. We in the prison system have great experts. What you're mentioning are certain names I wouldn't comment on. I think people who work in the prison system, penitentiaries, educational institutions, probation service deserve a lot more than criticism when you come back, when I'm standing here, the principal has nothing to do with anything. I think we need people doing hard work, raising people who break the law to praise, and now you're one of the 12100 employees at the Department of Justice and Administration who are being targeted for your political worldview, not for reading this report at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101219	Dear MP Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101220	Article 238, but also an article that indicates that the Croatian Parliament must function in such a way that the Croatian Government responds to the Croatian Parliament, and you do not do so now. You also disrespect Croatian citizens by saying that I draw two examples because I only have one minute of talking about my political views and who he is when and where he was born. That's not what I was talking about. I'm talking about the Croatian judiciary being a cancer of the early Croatian society, and you generate JNA lawyers and people from totalitarian systems about this judiciary. And you can be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101221	Okay. Unfortunately, it was a replica, and unfortunately you also have to get a warning. Honored representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101222	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I'd like to go back to the job fill. The fact that this report in 2020 lacks 1,000 people. My colleague asked what the profiles were. You mentioned the lack of judicial police, so you can't write inside that the number of employees is satisfactory. So please fill out what other employee profiles are missing, as is the situation at the prison hospital as far as medical personnel are concerned, what are the salaries, what is the coverage. And if you still arrive, what are the standards in other countries regarding the number of prisoners on the prisoners of the judicial police. There's 2.3 to 1. How's it going in other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101223	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101224	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, of course, that standards are different given the size of the state, to the number of the population. We're about in the prison system I said between 11 and 12,000 people who end up in the prison system for one year. The most we're missing is the judicial police, the different people who work in treatment. As far as the prison hospital is concerned, the prison hospital is our specific hospital. She should be more like a psychiatric hospital. That's where people come in with problems like that. We've raised that level of prison every year a little more than we did in the previous years. You saw when we had that discussion, that prison hospital was connected to this health ministry system for CESH. So, we're trying to hire people who fill out the prison hospital system. Because what's our problem is that the salaries at the prison hospital versus the other hospitals are much less. Now we want to even it out. Doctors don't come to us very well. That's our problem. Now we're trying, so up to the level and the others to fill it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101225	Thank you. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101226	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Salapic, here's a little quote, we'll hear the whole thing later. I'm a prison guard after adding to the 30% internship and bonus on the terms of work with all benefits and overtime on average every month I receive a salary of 6 and a half thousand kuna. My question last year, at the end of last year, you attended a meeting that discussed the lack of personnel and the age of employees in the prison system, the filling of jobs in the same system was slightly less than 72%. So here's to ask you about a subject that's very current when, or what it's all about, the rights of judicial officers are equal to the police that are under the Ministry of the Interior, because you know it's a very important topic for the judicial police. Thank you for their response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101227	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101228	Thank you very much. We esteemed MPs are constantly working to improve the rights of our officers and employees in the prison system, especially the judicial police, because it is true that these people are in the most difficult situation in this system in direct contact with different types of people who serve prison sentences. We have a lot of good cooperation with the unions of the judicial police, there are more of them, it's not just one but three. The wages are on average like that when you take on duty, it's a little more. So, what is our goal in the future is that the judicial police of the prison system and the judicial police to ensure that judicial authorities are evened into one and continuously working to increase these salaries to people in the system according to our financial opportunities. It's going to be, we can't do it overnight, but here's what I believe is the door for cooperation and conversation, and these people are really the hardest, and we're going to try to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101229	Dear Representative Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101230	The esteemed chairman and secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I am pleased to have a united debate on these two points of the report on both the state of work of the penitentiary and the work of the probation service that I think is clearly and unequivocally pointing to the reality that is happening in Croatian society. However, I would like to point out one very important thing, which is that the probationary service has a purpose among other things and a certain development of local communities, and I know that they are deployed throughout Croatia, but we would like to ask you to explain a little if there is a certain dynamic of further development of these probation services throughout Croatia and that part concerning the filling of systematicised jobs both in the penitentiary offices and other institutions that take care of the prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101231	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101232	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As I said in the replicas before our obligation is therefore both desire and need to fill this system annually as much as possible given the number of systematicised jobs. I said about 70 people come into the system about a year, some of them retire. We have now passed a certain rule where people who are entitled to that pension are released with certain legal means one is an age pension under special conditions to fill people, people in the so-called system. rejuvenation of the system. And as for the probation offices, we make sure they're represented really territorially, that's important to us. We've had problems this year that we're discussing in 2020, including '21. Partly is there some things we couldn't do with the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, now it's better and I believe here that all together and here is the principal with me, we're making sure that it's available on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that's very important and I think that, I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101233	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101234	Well, here's the report again, and we've seen that certain perpetrators of serious crimes express their work for the greater good, the probation service participates in this, etc., but it's shocking that this work for the general good was actually spoken by the court in 2020 in 14 cases for the perpetrators of serious crimes against sexual freedom and child abuse, against family, marriage, youth, against public order, against life and body 69 cases. So this criminal policy is too mild for us, there's no dispute here, but let me know if that's how it all affects renaissance, if you can in the short lines, what kind of recoverys are in, and if criminals are able to resocialize to some extent, who stays at the black bottom, and how do you treat them?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101235	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101236	Ha, Your Honor, it's like you asked me to tell you who's a member of the bank and how long he's gonna be a member of some gang. It is from man to man, therefore, as far as the punishment for the work of the general good that you have mentioned is being decided by the court, it is not up to us, nor the trial, nor the prison system. When a man enters in one way or another, he goes to a parole or prison system it's a special team of experts primarily from psychologists, health staff who studied every person, every man who enters the system has, has what we would say the file, is followed by him when he enters, how he enters, what he needs to do, how everything will be done, what are his preferences and can we do anything of that man. Unfortunately, the rectivist always has, they're not in large numbers, we can't participate, the person gets the right to, for the weekend, so make a mess. It's not our fault that he went crazy at that point, so from man to man.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101237	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101238	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, on many occasions, colleagues and colleagues have referred to the number of judicial officers because we seem to find that figure quite alarming. What's even more worrying is that it's been a continuous number for several years from the report you can see, to assume it's not just this 3rd year. but before that. You mentioned that you were working to raise the border from 25 to 30, but that didn't happen, so you would beg for the Croatian public which you specifically, in particular, intend to do in order to increase the number of judicial officers from 70%, so let's go to 80 I think it would be 100% nice to ask you and to take into account your fellow Dretar also in response to the question of pay and pay of these prison officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101239	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101240	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I took into account Mr. Dretar's replica, and I answered him. As far as this is concerned, I don't know what you've just concluded that we've made a mistake since we were 25. 30 g. That it doesn't work, so today we're talking about the 2020 report, and today we're in 2022, it works. We've had a contest, we've got interested people coming into the contest, this system is being filled in in a way that people meet the conditions when they report to the competition. So it would be very ideal and good if we could get 100% of those who report to all of them, so we filter the same system. You know that a judicial officer with all these problems that Mr. Dretar said specific work and everything, when a man enters the system, not all honey and milk, we have problems, too, you understand. These are people who are in direct contact with the most difficult forms of criminal mileage, some are absolutely committed to their work, some are less committed to their work and we take care when the competitions are rejuvenationing the system that people are going in to us, it's also very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101241	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101242	Thank you. State Secretary Salapic, so far, has been talking about the lack of people working in the system, but the issue is also prison problems. In the chapter on the transfer of prisoners, it is said that the penitentiaries in Glina and the prison in Sisak were killed after the earthquake and the prisoners were transferred to other institutions. Personally, like my colleagues and colleagues, I had the opportunity to work on the principle of culture in the community and visit Lepoglava through the Turopolje Educational Institute, Lipovic can say that there are very, very modest conditions. What are the chances of restoring a quality prison in Clay, and what about the prison in Imotski where it's been spoken for years?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101243	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101244	As for the situation after the earthquake, Your Honor, I can say that thank God at that moment managed to preserve both the safety of people and the health and to save all the people who were at that moment there making prisoners of our employees. As for the prison in Clay, that building that was hit by an earthquake in the yard, we're going to take down and make a new one, so it's in the process. As far as other capacities are concerned, we are currently in the end of filling the capacity in Požega at 150 new places and in Lipovica at about 100 seats. We are aware of the situation, therefore, of the fact that the money from the NPOO's European funds is being invested in expanding the capacity of Zagreb's prisons, which is the most burdened prison. So, it's our continuing task and business doesn't go this overnight it's big assets and I believe that with this capacity increase and some alternative measures we're going to reduce the number of people directly in the prison system which improves the capacities that I just said around here especially Gline and Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101245	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have already talked in previous replicas in two, three times about readmission, and it is certainly a subject that often causes great public attention. I am interested in working with institutions, associations, colleges of consistent orientations, and it certainly helped to say that you have pointed out here on several occasions that it is not such a large number of relapsers. I think it would be good to continue working more intensively with these bodies through applications to various programs. And one question I'm curious about is, what about people who unfortunately spend their entire working life in a prison system, what do they expect later because they don't have the right to retire, are they just social cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101247	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101248	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And you yourself gave a partial answer to this last one, it's not a large number of people who are constantly in the prison system. Unfortunately, there is that in some small percentage, but it is not us who influences it, but no matter how hard you work for some people, there is nothing you can do. I haven't been able to tell you everything, there are numerous international projects, numerous collaborations with different ministries, associations regarding the resociation of man and the return of prison to normal life. Not all prisoners are grave criminals, there are people who have had car accidents with a fatal consequence, you have people who have committed certain acts out of nowhere, that's a different type of people. What is our interest in ensuring those safety, health, financial and other conditions. These experts who work in a system that I agree need to raise salaries and medical staff as well as psychologists are on the task of trying to bring these people back to normal life. It's hard sometimes, but in most cases when it comes to normal people, it's possible to do it, and we're working year after year, we have really good cooperation with bodies outside the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101249	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101250	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. If we look at data that speak of the type and number of criminal offences in the cases of conditional or partial sentence with protective supervision or special obligation or security measure, then we can see that of the total number of criminal offences that makes up 68 of them 362 criminal offences fall to crimes against marriage in families and children, which makes up more than 53% of total meals. Now, I believe that this is due to the amendment of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Criminal Code in which we have this HS has actually qualified domestic violence as a criminal offence, but we also see that, with conditional and partial probation besides protective supervision, the court may impose one or more security measures or special obligations. Can you tell what the most common security measures or specific obligations in cases of domestic violence are prescribed, provided for?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101251	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101252	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now that you've read the statistical report, you've said what this is all about. So these security measures are decided by the court of course. As far as these crimes are concerned, we have made this legislative framework much better and stronger than we have ever had before and you have been in that system yourself, unfortunately this increase in domestic violence is quite large and this pandemic of the coronaryvirus in the years behind us has made its own. So, we're trying to follow this system well, it's not just the department of justice and the administration and the law that we've been discussing here, but it's the jurisdiction of the courts and the police. I think a big step has been made to protect such cases and that both the police and the court are far more concerned and thoughtful than they were before looking at these crimes. So protection is much greater both for families and children, and I believe that this solid legislative framework has put us in a position to protect such people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101253	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101254	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're saying here that we have 1371 contracted legal entities where we can perform the work for the common good and is that enough, do we have problems with referring to the work for the common good? Namely, why am I saying that? Because in institutions, public authorities have a really great responsibility when they are instructed in such contractual relations and for material resources, but also especially in health and social institutions for those who care. I have experience of my own that I have made sure that these are the most common traffic offences to protect my users, though, that we work together on it. So my question is, do we have good enough cooperation and generally for probation service in general one good interdepartmental cooperation? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101255	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101256	Thank you well-respected MPs, we have amongst the good, time inter-resorial cooperation, there have been some problems in these years due to the pandemic of the coronary virus some contracts unfortunately couldn't be executed, some things change, so not all institutions that get work for the general good equal... So there are certain needs to change, but we are satisfied with the overall state and number of entities with which we have contracts, we follow it constantly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is about a special service that follows it, and we also make sure that when a person goes to work for the common good, that it's not just a story that appears media, that there's got to work for the general good so nothing, that it's being followed, if a person breaks work for the general good, if by chance a legal entity breaks it or allows certain privileges for a person who goes to work for the general good, it's a punishment for each other. This person is going back to prison, and with this we're breaking up the contract and taking certain steps further. I mean, there's everything and everything, but in the global 98%, that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101257	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101258	At the beginning of your report, the esteemed secretary was written a mission of the Administration of the Prison System and a trial which states among other things that human treatment and respect for the dignity of a person who is in the execution of a prison sentence or the enforcement of an educational measure in a educational institution through clearly set goals, a secure working environment, motivated staff and cooperation with the local community and the organisation of civil society. The report lists a large number of data showing us the state of the prisoners. What about the part through clearly set goals, secure working environment and motivated staff? You have dedicated only 3 pages to your employees in this report that cannot be seen whether they are motivated, whether they have a safe working environment and what their salaries are. Do you think your employees are really motivated and are safe?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101259	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101260	I believe our prisoners, our employees are safe. First of all, you know that the general system of salaries is in the state service, so I can also say at the Ministry of Justice and Administration in line with the possibilities primarily of the state budget. We make sure that our employees are provided with whatever is legally our obligation. Of course those salaries should be more than anyone. I can't just say that we have high-quality employees in the probation service and in the prison system, employees of the prison system have a 20% salary supplement. So they have higher salaries than other employees of the Justice and Administration Ministry. Let's say one judicial officer with his duty and if he's working shifts, he can get to 10,000 kuna. So it's not just an indicative average salary that, as far as the probation service is concerned, we didn't get the impression that we have demoted people, but it's certainly a motivation of the obligations of all of us, and it's up to me and our employees and employees and officials to work to secure these people a higher salary. We can't say it's great and good, I can just say it can be better. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101261	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, you can return to your post, and would the representative of the Committee's rapporteur like to take his word? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will speak to the respected representative Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101262	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have a report on the work of the Prosecution Service and the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2020. We are constantly serving reports that are not from the previous year, and this practice should stop because there is no excessive reason not to respect Article 14(4). The law on probation, for example. which prescribes that the work of the probationary service is reported by the Croatian Parliament once a year and no later than 31 March for the previous year. The government submitted this test report for 2020 to the Croatian Parliament on 2 September 2021. So much for how much the government respects the laws itself. The Prosecution Act states that probational transactions are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and are carried out in order to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the crime, its, its resociation and reintegration into the community, having an impact on the risk factors associated with the conduct of the crime. The report states that a total of 3,497 new cases were received in the past year and 3,624 cases were completed. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 410.837 hours of work for the common good. During 2020, 1,371 legal persons were available in which work could be done for the common good. This emphasis on the numbering data is certainly good and indicates that the great effort of the probation service, but we as parliamentary representatives, and the general public would be interested in what trends are, whether just such experimental measures have affected positively the achievement of the purpose of the trial, which is as stated resociation and reintegration in the community influences the risk factors associated with the doing of the crime. Every time we read some numerical data, we have to ask ourselves why it is and what we can do to achieve the full purpose and purpose of the trial. There is a lack of analysis of the measures implemented and their effects and impact comparatively with previous years. We also do not have the conclusions that would list suggestions for improving those procedures of the probation service that did not produce the desired results. In 2020, it was marked with the pandemic Covida-19 and the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb, in which there was a severe damage to the area in which the trial office in Zagreb was located until then, at Tomislav Square 17 in Zagreb. It is good to have managed to find a replacement space for the purpose of the earthquake of a destroyed probationary office in Zagreb 1 that was temporarily moved to Zagreb's business office and that a new space was provided for the purposes of testing in Požega owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is good that we can, with the state budget of probationary jobs, also finance through projects such as strengthening the protection of human rights and public security through improving the capacity of the probation service financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021. It is said that the Croatian Prosecution Service places the same emphasis on social integration and the perpetrators of the crime and on the protection of the community. Of the 2826 people for whom data on earlier punishment was collected, 26.22% were previously convicted in criminal proceedings 22.0% were previously under the supervision of the probation service. It is not a small percentage of relapsers and should find a way to reduce that number by taking certain measures within the probation service, whether they are educational, working occupation, psychological or other measures should be designed. Although sometimes when we see cruelty to victims when committing crimes, especially to children and other vulnerable groups, we prefer to reach out for the same response to the perpetrator, we must remember that we are in art. 3. The law on the execution of a prison sentence prescribed that the main purpose of the execution of a prison with human treatment and respect for the dignity of a person who is in prison, his training for life at large in accordance with the law and social rules which contributes to the protection of the social community. Making a report for a judge is the most represented probation work and accounts for a total of 39.18% of all cases received in 2020, of the total number of 1370 reports for the judge of execution 84.7% related to the percentage of the approval of the terms of discharge and 15.2 is related to the procedure of granting the closure of the prison sentence. Prison penitentiary reports in 96.4% of cases are related to the approval of conveniences. When we talk about parole, the public usually reacts negatively to the approval of parole and approval of the benefits of those prisoners who have committed a criminal offence that has shaken the public because of their cruelty to the victim, such as the Daruvarac case. 3.5 years after the terrible crime that rocked Zadar and Croatia, the Daruvarac case came back before the public's light even though it was primarily sentenced to five years, the verdict was changed to four, and it takes 3.5 years, now it is now up to the end of the third year of its stay in the Penitentiary in Glina due to good conduct and guaranteed work on parole. It would be good for the secretary of state to explain to us what this is really about, because it is suggested that the disputed judicial officer who is related to family ties in the prison system administration has "set it down" and the Dravar of excellent evaluations on the basis of which he received consent for parole from the Glina Penitentiary Authority. If these are merely malicious speculations because she is still employed as a judicial officer, it should be made clear, but it would be good if the suspicion of nepotism were not exceeded by the probationary service. When we talk about the work for the general good, the largest number of works for the general good was received by the Probation Office in Zagreb, Zagreb 1, the Probation Office Varazdin, and the Probation Office in Sisak 6.9%. During 2020 convicts worked for general good in hospitals, institutions for mentalally ill persons, homes for elderly and powerless, centres for education and education, rehabilitation centres, city and municipal societies of the Red Cross, Caritas, schools, kindergartens, museums, libraries, etc. It would be interesting to find out what the working skills and abilities of the perpetrators of the crimes of former politicians and local officials on the basis of which they are determined to do certain work for the general good and what are mostly jobs other than peeling potatoes that we could have done as was the case with Mr. Cobankovic. It is commendable that during 2020, the Prosecution Service extended its cooperation to another 34 new legal persons who can perform work for the common good. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Why it was replaced by a prison sentence is not indicated, and it would be interesting to know. It is good that the Office for Electronic Control shall start tendering for the rental of electronic surveillance equipment in order to be able to monitor in accordance with Article. 169. The law on the execution of a prison sentence and the Regulation on the conditional release of electronic surveillance when the way in which the electronic supervision is carried out during the execution of the parole, with which a special obligation to prohibit leaving the home during a certain period of time has been imposed. There is a clear need for continued education of probationary officers and in any case we support the strengthening of professional competences through continuous education of probationary officials. When we talk about the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2020, it should again be pointed out that in its report for 2020, the attorney general said that although it has been indicated for years that the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the legal resources was often addressed to her by prisoners because of inadequate treatment under complaints filed by the Central Office of the prison system administration and probation. She stated that their answers were templated, and in some cases she found that the content of the two exact same sentences was not found to suggest a violation of the right. The prisoners also addressed her with allegations that other prisoners were threatening them and were exposed to physical, psychological, and sexual violence. It is rare for particularly vulnerable groups such as members of national minorities, most often the Roma community, especially those with intellectual difficulties or those they call their friends. In addition to the epidemic, the prison system also faced earthquakes while the earthquake that hit Zagreb in March damaged only the building of a prison hospital where there was minor material damage, a devastating earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County significantly damaged the prison in Sisak and Penitentiary in Glina. Because of the covida-19 pandemic in most of the criminal bodies, prisoners, regardless of their status, spent most of their time in their rooms without joint group activities. The additional problem of the Glina Penitentiary is the lack of officials despite the temporary transfer of parts of the prison officers to Sisak, for example, the treatment group of 40-45 prisoners, which prevents any teamwork. On 31 December 2020, In the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and centres, a total of 3,558 systematic jobs were filled, and 2.558 was filled, which is 71.89%, which is unsatisfactory. Law enforcement officers are a special story, they're in the system 1.560, and they're 20% missing. On 31.12.2020. 2.2 prisoners are on one judicial officer, which is also an unsatisfactory percentage. It is therefore necessary to take into account the planning and employment of new judicial police officers, and in particular taking into account the fact of the time needed to train them to carry out their own tasks and official tasks. Salaries range from 5 and 5 and a half thousand for medium gear, with a height of 6.5 to 7.5, with a high 10 thousand kuna, of course there are mentions of accessories and overtime. In any case, in the next admission plan, we suggest that the fill-up of judicial officers be optimal so that they can carry out their tasks without additional burden on psychophysical health is, regardless of the pay additions, that work leaves a mark on psychophysical health. In view of the fact that the lack of adequate support after release from prison is one of the most significant risk factors for the criminal return of the prison system administration and testing has intensified cooperation with competent institutions and civil society organisations in the organisation of post-penal reception and the provision of assistance after layoff, which is a very good practice and needs to be intensified as much as possible. Finally, the Social Democrats' Club will support both reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101263	In the name of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101264	The Honorable Chairman, state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, according to the definition of probation, there is a conditional and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences during which probation officers conduct procedures aimed at resociating convicts, reducing the risk of committing a new criminal offence, and protecting the social community. This definition clearly shows the activity of the probation service, which is working with the perpetrators of criminal offences, who carry out their sanctions or the rest of it on the loose, work for the common good, then conditional discharge, different alternative sanctions, conditional freedoms are just some of the concepts that are related in the Republic of Croatia to the word probation. They describe in their own way only part of what the trial is about, but the trial is much wider and much more comprehensive than the above. That is why I am concerned to learn that this report is drawn up on only 26 pages including all charts, tables, images that are not missing in the report. The development of an international integration society and past experience in prison punishment have led to the need to reconsider the purpose of the prison sentence. The collected data on the relapse rate were defeated for each judicial system that conducted such an examination. The overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary, penal pulsism, while increasing the number of crimes committed has long formed a vicious circle of society, justice and punishment. They did not have a number of experts agree with the the thesis that prisons are their own criminal colleges, and as such they do not serve their purpose at all, and the prison only deepens the social and psychological gap between prisoners and society or the environment. The inability to adapt former prisoners and the carelessness of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation society according to generally accepted norms also generated a significant increase in criminal relapse. In addition, when the economic default of the prison sentence is added as the main form of punishment, the question arises whether society can react to some of the new non-institutional modes of punishment and in what cases. In order for this report to be acceptable to him, he lacks much of it, primarily in the section prescribed by the rules on how to carry out probation work, thus published in the National Journal of No. 68/19 for the part relating to Articles 8 to 30, which is to carry out the obligations of a State lawyer, and then to carry out protective supervision, and then to carry out specific obligations, it lacks information on the experience of sampling measures or at least a review of whether the measure is successful, whether it is broken or otherwise, there is no such report. And when we talk about working for the common good, the work for the general good is pronounced by the court as a substitute for a prison sentence of up to one year or a replacement for fines or as an obligation that a state attorney may impose on the defendant if he has suspended or given up on prosecution. During 2020 convicts worked for general good in hospitals, in institutions for mentalally ill persons, in homes for elderly and powerless, in centres for education and education, in centres for rehabilitation, in urban and municipal societies of the Croatian Red Cross, Caritas, schools, kindergartens, museums, libraries, societies and associations dealing with animal protection, various humanitarian associations, DVDs and JVPs, sports clubs, companies dealing with municipal activities, public authorities, etc. and here I have a large number of concerns, for example whether a list of legal persons is publicly available, if a control office is conducted over those legal persons, there may be a special service, or perhaps within the scope of measures, no analysis by age and sex of convicts, and a type of crime. I also find it extremely important to remind myself of the obstacles to working in the social care activities that I mentioned in the reply to the Secretary of State, and I consider them extremely important for this topic, so they are defined in Article 261. The Social Care Act, therefore, cannot be accepted in a working relationship as a worker in the activities of social care or in matters of social care activities, can be carried out by a person who is legally convicted of any of the crimes against humanity and human dignity, then crimes against life and body, crimes against human rights and fundamental freedoms, crimes against labour relations and social security, crimes against personal freedom, crimes against honor and reputation, crimes against sexual freedom, the sexual abuse of a child, crimes against marriage, family and children, crimes against human health, crimes against property, crimes against the economy, crimes of counterfeiting, criminal offences against official duty, criminal offences against public order or criminal acts against the Republic of Croatia all taxed against the Penal Code. Then, a person who is legally convicted of any of the crimes against life and the body, so crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, crimes against the Republic of Croatia, crimes against the values protected by international law, crimes against sexual freedom and sexual law, crimes against honor and reputation, crimes against marriage, family and youth, crimes against property, criminal offences against human health, crimes against the security of payment and business, criminal offences against the credibility of justice, against public order, against official duty also listed in the Criminal Law and the person who has been criminally sanctioned for domestic violence, the same person who is being brought before a competent court for the criminal offence of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child under criminal law. All of these are obstacles to working in the social care activities set out by the legislator himself, but if it is to carry out a measure of work for the general good, then all the numbered obstacles are ignored and they fall into the water as if they do not even exist. There is no information in the report on the age and sex of convicts who perform the tasks for the common good. Then whether there is even a correlation between the ages of convicts who carry out the tasks of general good and the type of crime. There is no analysis by age and sex of convicts for the duration of parole. There is no analysis of the age and gender of convicts for security measures. There is no record of whether internal surveillance has been carried out, the report shows neither who conducts external surveillance of the Testing Office nor whether internal control of the office has been carried out at all. There are no amounts in the financial statements, or in the financial part of this report, that have received associations that have collaborated with the Testing Office. There is no record of how these associations were chosen at all. There is no data on the use of EU funds. There are no data on inter-resorship cooperation with other bodies, social care centres, health institutions, educational institutions and the like. I don't get it. And when we talk about the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2020, as I have already stated in the interpretation of the request for a break, Chapter 3 relating to the employees of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and the Centre for the Prison System and Prosecution, it is said that on 31 December 2020 in the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions and centres a total of 3.558 systematic jobs are missing, and only 2.558 is filled, which is the fillout of only 71.89% or exactly 1,000 employees missing in the entire system. From the table representation of the total number of executioners of systematicised and filled jobs according to the design units on 31.12.2020, it is apparent that 437, in the design unit, the work unit and the vocational training of prisoners or minors of 152 employees or subsistence, are missing. I consider these mentioned building units the most important in the work of penitentiary and thematic institutions. Following these statistical indicators, we can conclude that the most important units lack 696 employees, which is as much as 69.6% of the total number of unfulfilled jobs. It is very signifying and interesting that in the Administration of the Prison System the jobs of the manager and assistant, so the management jobs are almost fully filled. There's only one missing. Obviously, for these jobs, it is easy to find professionals. Of course, this large number of shortages of professional personnel necessary for the normal functioning of the thematic institutions has a consequence and a large increased engagement of the entire staff structure in order to ensure that the job in question is done in quality, time and overall. It is certainly because of this daily increased engagement of officials, i.e. the undersigned, there is a break in some cases of performing a job in a pattern way and a greater risk and the possibility of possible errors in work. Although this is not a new problem, the report does not state what needs to be done to reduce the number of such a large shortage of professional employees. We are clearly interested in what the government is taking in terms of filling certain jobs according to the current systemisation and why so far it turns out that nothing concrete has been done. How many years or years are there at all, so I think of a large number of unfulfilled jobs according to current systemization. Staff policy in these institutions either does not exist or is carried out very badly without giving it the necessary meaning or perhaps it is deliberate. I don't know, I can't imagine that in one system and it's very important as this one is missing about 28% of the professional staff. This clearly points to the fact that this problem is poured from year to year, and that the proposer does nothing or almost nothing to at least mitigate or of course solve this problem completely. In relation to the above opinion, I am aware that the safety situation cannot be assessed by an assessment of good, as is evident from the conclusion, because such a large number of staff shortages certainly have a major impact on the state of security. It is evident from the report that officials, or subsistences, who are certainly insufficiently numbered in the global world, have put forth a great deal of effort, but this system deserves it because it still works with people completely normal, continuous peaceful work without any necessary tensions or possible patterns in the course of action, etc. This is necessary to achieve a satisfactory state of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101265	The next club of representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by respected representative Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101266	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As I always like to hear from this pay phone the voice of people who come from the system that we are talking about here, it was published in one Croatian weekly a few years ago, but I'm in contact with people from the profession and they say that nothing has really changed. So, the letter begins like this, "I've been a prison guard and I've been doing this job for 30 years, I've made progress to the head of the department, prisoners call me commander. I run the department myself, I'm the head of 70 prisoners, sometimes there were more than 250. We're the backbone of a prison, we're paid at least, and we're not appreciated. After adding to an internship and bonus of 30% on the terms of work with all benefits and overtime, on average every month I receive 6.5 thousand kunas doing the hardest work in the prison system. Every day in contact with the prisoners, I open the cell door in the department if it takes 10, 20 times a day. I only get in uniform with a stick sometimes with a paper spray, I can't carry a gun. We don't have radio, we don't have wireless phones if the problems start, we can just yell, bang and hope the reinforcements will arrive in time. What we're bringing into the cell is our authority and that's our greatest power. It should be built from the first contact with anyone who comes to the department. We've already learned who's the worst, paedophiles hate everyone, the cops don't like, politicians and directors chase and want to get attached to them, tell sex offenders that they don't talk about their works in the room, tell them what awaits them, sometimes bullying, sometimes beating them up. The elderly and the sick must be separated into non-smoking rooms if there is room, if there is no waiting for their turn. The rooms are small and tightly built for a maximum of three prisoners. Not everyone can eat at the table at the same time, some do it on the beds, some smoke, others are on the toilet, next to each other. It's hot in the cells. It's hell in the summer. That's why we let them improvise, so the intestines and the tape make manual showers and wash over the squatters. Officially, they have the right to shower once or twice a week with schedules per room." In prisons there are not enough judicial officers, we have already mentioned this here and through a series of replicas, prison filling is mostly a prison system of 150% and workers 72%. So there aren't enough law enforcement officers in prison. I continue with the letter "As head of department I work alone from 7-15 afterwards I write reports. In the morning we wake the prisoners after that sitting down breakfast, the courtyards are full all day, constantly rotating into their groups because everyone has the right to a two-hour walk a day. In our prison facility we have no computers," imagine this 2022. "we have records on the wall on which the names of the prisoners are written on little cards. That hasn't changed since the '80s. During the day, doctors come to the rooms to examine them and give them to inmates of therapy. About 70% of them receive some form of therapy, each review must be attended. Many are at the most difficult treatments, some also on heptanones. You don't know if they have any infectious diseases or not. We are not networked with doctors, and if they do not tell us privately we cannot know if any of the patients is contagiously ill," forgive the prisoners. "The chiefs of departments today are not really asking much. Prisoners are assigned to the treatment department, they decide who's going to be the department's director, even though we may not be satisfied with him. In the rooms the schedules work the prisoners themselves, the strongest, the most influential. Problems with the prisoner should be predicted," so sometimes people working inside the prison system must be psychiatrists and psychologists. "When someone talks to you in five days, I go out, wait for the court's decision and come back bitter because it didn't happen, it is seen that it is at the point of the shooting. A man like that needs to be called to talk, calmed down, talked to him, you can't promise him much, but you need to listen to him, protect him from himself. The prisons are overcrowded, only in Remetec until recently there were more than 700 prisoners."For colleagues and colleagues who may be going that way to know the tycoons and politicians do not have their own singles but are in four bedrooms, here if anyone ever is there to know what awaits him. "The biggest problem with the black market is medicines, about 70% of prisoners receive therapy, and many pretend to take it and sell it later. The nights are the worst when all quiets down many of them are left alone and they want to hurt themselves. They take the razor blades they can have, they cut themselves, they lie down in bed, they cover them with blankets, and they wait for the morning until they can bleed to death. Although patrols go to the risk rooms every 20 minutes, some arrive to control only once, perhaps twice a night. You won't believe the best thing to do with murderers is especially those who did it for the first time, don't create problems, they know what they did. They're not criminals in a broader sense. Working with young people is the hardest thing to do. And here you should be a psychiatrist and a doctor and a parent and a friend. Prisoners are never good. Malpractice is common. People complain that they take their meat off their plate, insult or beat them. We keep an eye out who the prisoners are abroad with, separate them from the doctor. Sometimes they bully each other in their rooms. The conditions are bad, and the wages are small. We don't have equipment, we're in old uniforms, the new ones didn't come even though they were promised. We're too small! One aspect of the life of a judicial officer working in a prison system we may not be thinking about. They have to get out of their jobs, they have to go somewhere to get coffee, they have to go to the market, they have to go to the store, they have to go to the movies, and at the end of it, they're on the street. They are approached on the road by former prisoners and by their behavior they can know what they were, because stories spread from the penitentiary to the penitentiary, and then further back to freedom. We should have a calm conscience saying ultimately that man and we know how to make mistakes, but we're here to make it easier. Robbie's the hardest prisoner in the world anyway. After all these years and I repeat, the gentleman has been a prison guard for 30 years. I'm already tired, but I can't retire because there's no one to replace me. Added to this letter are just a few more lines from the stand of the Croatian Judicial Police Union. We're talking about 2021. Apparently, the union can do it a lot more up-to-date than his department, where we're talking about 2020 today without a grudge. The year we'll remember most and as the second pandemic of covid is 2021. The year ended in a way that prison officials in Zagreb, with the support of prison hospital officials, were dissatisfied with the introduction of certificates of vaccination of their dissatisfaction, discrimination against those who must have confirmations against those who do not have to and participate in court proceedings in a peaceful gathering in front of prison in Zagreb expressed their dissatisfaction. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, freedom and the right to work. In 2021, we heard numerous promises about the final adoption of the Law on the Judicial Police, the purchase of n these vehicles, the new regulation on titles, where the number of calls would be increased in the medium section. Let the name be added, and the name of a junior judicial officer shall be abolished. There were also promises that by the end of last year, they would know exactly what would happen to the prison in Sisak and its employees. These people are very close to half of 2022 still think and plan their future and the future of their families. We hear stories about making new badges, new parts of uniforms, getting official dogs and activating the intervention team through the new rulebook, so here is a really good question how much it costs, how much it weighs, and this small amount of money it's meant in the budget for the prison system this year. What's the big deal? What's the change really look like? Official badges and making new ones? Could those funds have been planned for something else? Of course they are. There used to be talk and tended to the Scandinavian way of working the prison system. None of this, unfortunately, has been achieved except for the high cost of traveling to the head of the same prison system. It would be more said that the prison system is near the South American model, the overcrowding of institutions, phones, and drugs for sale within institutions, and all that is naturally strictly forbidden. The heads of the Department of the Prison System are closing both their eyes and ears on everything they're being written and warning about what's going on and what might happen inside the prison system. Of course, we may be talking about isolated cases, but they've never happened before, and they certainly shouldn't, let alone become normal. No one's responsible for anything unless the guilty are found in the judicial police. In all the media in the last year, except for the number of infected and dead by the virus, news of incidents, prison systems. No system in Croatia unfortunately writes more and worse than in the prison system, which are facts. We can't get away from the assessment that it's all the same as the result of the lack of interest, the ignorance of the people who run this system. In this year and in the years ahead, something will have to change. This way of relations between the leaders of the prison system towards everything that is negative and what is currently happening in certain institutions is the result of their inertness and can result only in more serious and dangerous incidents. And something very current since January of this year has been related, of course, to the rise in prices of life, and thus to the rise in fuel prices. Have the officers been cut off? Of course, it is in that old collective contract for civil servants and tenants if the highest retail price of Eurosuper is changed according to data from the Ministry of Economy by more than 15% from the date of entry into force of the contract, cost compensation, etc. etc. It will increase by a mile by the amount of the increase in the price of gasoline. Yeah, of course we know the collective contract is gone. The rights of civil servants are regulated by the government's unilateral decision and depend exclusively on the government's decision and will. The increase in transport costs for business as well as other material rights is defined exclusively by collective agreement, so at present not by any single law and the government dictates the course and time of negotiations. And she's just finished for the end and my personal friend is working as a judicial officer in Zagorje and the job is carried by Varazdin, Zlatar over Leprechaun anywhere she needs. And unfortunately for much, much less pay than those at the beginning of my speech mentioned six and a half thousand kuna. It's final. The Department of Homeland Movement Club will support both of these reports, but once again I would like to stress the time for the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to understand and just reward all the efforts and responsibilities of judicial officers, judicial officers and at least through adequate monthly salary to acknowledge and reward from everything they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101267	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Directors of the Department of Prison System and Prosecution immediately state the position of the HDZ Club will support both these reports, the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary and prisons and the report on the work of the probation service. First of all, I want to express my appreciation, and I think that both of these reports are well-made, they contain a whole, whole set of data from which you can actually see how the system itself works. Of course, it can always be better, I might find this more interesting and better to have some comparative data from some EU Member States so that we can dimension ourselves against some kind of picture. But what you might say is if we look at our reports back a few years ago, I think we've had these numbers back a few years quite similar. As far as I can see, it actually circulates through the entire system about 11, 11 and a half thousand more people or less. So there's these real prisoners who support prison sentences for over 6 months and so on, they had about 40% more or less. We have a whole series of people who are actually in an investigative prison and they're also going through the system and we see that these figures are conditionalally said very much like they are. I would say to all of this certainly that there are great challenges that are facing the prison system and which, which, in fact, would be good to take some step forward every year and it would be good to have a little potential in the report for what the year has been done compared to the year before, so that we get the impression that it's not standing in place but that it actually goes forward. All of this should be viewed as part of a broader picture called the functioning of the entire state apparatus. I mean, it's not like I'd say, not one rational reason that we don't say if we have a systemized 3,000 and I don't know how many official posts, and we have two and a half, a thousand less that we should get to, this full number, but again if we look at a wide picture of whatever ministry we enter, whatever state institution we enter, we'll actually see that the systemization rule is almost everyone's got a lot more systemized place than it's filled with. What's systemized would probably be some kind of ideal picture, and what's filled in is actually some sort of picture of real possibilities and objective images that we have at that point. Should the wages be in the system higher? Of course you would, of course you would. However, it is part of a story that the budget can bear. I remember a few years ago there was a conversation between the judicial police union, and then after that conversation with the court counselors, and actually when we analyzed it and measured it, then we saw that these salaries of junior law enforcement officers and court counselors were very similar. A little more court counselors, and they look at the gear. So the court advisor also does an extremely complex and difficult job, conducts court proceedings, conducts trials, decides on people's fates, has to have a law school, has to have a state-level, judicial exam. The situation here is still lower, high school is enough, education is enough. So all of these things, all of this really needs to be better and stronger and bigger, but the thing is possibilities, space. We've got a whole series of penitentiary, we've got a whole series of prisons in the Republic of Croatia, we've got these other facilities, and you've got you shut down, and these penitentiary stores have their history longevity. Now we've found ourselves in this reporting period with the natural earthquake disaster that was and we've seen that we're faced with a problem of Clay and Sisko that's actually half an hour away from each other and that there's about 140 prisoners who have been placed there and that was actually a good reaction, a quick reaction, and on that side we really don't have anything to say. What I think should also be done in the next periods, that should be stated, every year steps are done and the conditions of the lives of the prisoners in our system are improved. There is, for example, a difference in Glina we know that there is one new part that was arranged 10 years ago and that really has good conditions, but on the other hand there are in other penitentiary and prisons there are actually conditions that are worse and that need to be improved. On the other hand, I know this one's been working on it year after year, and all that needs to be made clear and listed whether it is. In Lepoglav a few years ago, an energy venture was made, in fact a new boiler room that cost and has brought certain savings, and it should always be stated that this is to be seen. There were words here if our system was closer to Scandinavian or South American. I'll say it this way when you say the prison system in public there's some kind of picture that's being built on maybe some kind of like this or some of the novels or what we're looking at in some movies, so people might imagine it's a system where it's dominant abuse of people, torture or something. No, it's definitely not like that. The conditions can certainly be better, but we need to know that our prisoners throughout the system, which there are great data, have a whole series of programs that they go on, there's actually a lot of education, a lot of treatments, they have the opportunity and the education, they have the ability and the ability to work within the system and acquire new knowledge because in fact the primary and first goal of our entire system is to resociate these people and actually train these people after a sustained sentence when they come back so that we can say in real life that they can somehow fit in, the next day to be all normal, if it provides our prison system. There are tortures or this one or that one that have good data, and you can see exactly how many physical attacks there were in 2020. 8, how many times did our officers have to apply funds forced 64 in 2022, in 2020, so to 11,000 people who went through the system there were actually 64 applications of coercion because someone had not acted according to the rules, since escape attempts, there were two attempts to escape. The painful point is suicide and death. When death in the prison system is said to be immediately connected and someone thinks someone killed someone there, however, it is very often about situations where people who come into the prison system come with serious diseases and it is, in fact, the largest, largest part of the cases they die from the disease they brought with them, with which they came. The prison system also exists in the penitentiary and in prisons there are infirmarys, and when we look at those 11,000 people who are pro-circulating, we are in 2020. We had 71,000, we had 71,000 general checks at those health facilities. Anything that can't be provided in a hospital or a prison hospital goes out, goes to these other institutions, so I say civil society that can provide it. Anyway, I think it's one of the challenges, the figures are pretty high related to drug addicts and alcohol addicts. Maybe there should be a little increase in the number of workshops, treatments, more attention, is that something that can actually be spread. Also this is due to the likely lack of number of officials, physical conflicts between the prisoners themselves, they were in the observed period of 229, which someone will say is a lot, someone will say it is small, but it should certainly work to make it as little as possible because the number observed is 11,000 and something more so people who have pro-circulated through the system. As far as the prison system is concerned, I will conclude once again that the better conditions in the system are one of the challenges and each year should work on them. When I say better conditions I think the situation means the environment in which they are and the cells in which they live and spend that time should certainly be in a better condition, somewhere in a satisfactory, there are categories, a larger number of employees also, a larger salary also, a clear and greater number of treatments although even these treatments we have is actually seen is a wide range of these treatments and there is also a lot of good communication with civil society associations because they are very important in actually spending all of this and a stronger and stronger fight against drug addiction and alcohol. And I am particularly pleased with one fact, which is that program with UNICEF means where inmates who are parents have the ability to communicate with their children not only physically there in this way but also digitally, so through a videolink that opens up the possibility of more frequent communication and in some ways it is welcome and that, in any case, this type of communication needs to be nurtured so that it cannot replace the physical, but edit the areas where children will come and be with their parents it is very important to continue, of course, further digitization. There's been a lot of talk about electronic surveillance, and that's what we need to work on, and I know that's what this Norwegian fund supports. It's a specific form of surveillance that's known in the world and we need to continue because it's one process, it's not easy either, it's not easy to install either. More or less these are all things that are related to the prison system, it would be very important to say something about probation. We have a relatively new institution, it's been living for 10 years, but the trial has now spread in those 10 years. We have 14 district offices, I think the last two in Vukovar and Gospić are open and the trial is now more unimaginable not only for the execution of prison sentences but also for the functioning of courts and state lawyers where actually the expert people from the trial are doing certain analyses on which security measures and choices are based and the choice and determination of the type of punishment in the criminal proceedings. There are 100 people employed very much as far as the professional profile is concerned, I think it is satisfactory, and of course we should continue to work on improving and strengthening that service with which I think we can also praise the international frameworks because as far as rehearsals are concerned, I think that we are like, as a society, that we have one of the better trials in the world at all. So once again, this commendation for this report that really contains a number of minutes of phone calls, from the number of visits, from the number of hospital reviews, so there is a lot to do, but for the future, try to do some comparative data within these few more developed EU countries and ultimately the same comparatively compared to what has been done year by year. What I think about all of this should be done because it is part of a system of one process that has its own path and should always be looked at in a wider picture because there is no, as I would say, this outside of the system of state administration because those salaries that are set there are actually the coefficients and wages that are within the whole state, and the number of employees that can be employed in relation to the rulebook is also within all other parts of the system. So here we are, of course, as other clubs have already said, going to support both of these reports, and we're going to see a 2021 report, and I believe that these numbers are similar to that of here, with that we have in '21. In fact, the application of the law that has been passed and which is new in connection with the execution of the prison sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101269	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and a respected representative, Ivana Kekin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101270	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary, the assistants, the MPs. I would join most clubs and say for a start that the report is really good and very, very much that it gave us a lot of data and that it was well structured both. What you might notice is that this, as well as many other reports that we are talking about here in view of 2020, is quite focused and related to the pandemic itself, which is not a miracle. I think the pandemic certainly had a significant impact on the work of these institutions and penitentiary and prisons and institutions. However, she would notice that, as in some other reports, the pandemics here are actually covered up that a series of problems have actually been being dragged away for years and that could say the structural problems of that part and that were being dragged away before 2020 and should be dealt with. It is sufficient to note that out of the 150 cases that are related to the prison system itself, which was launched by the Ombudsman's Office during 2020 by all 26 of them was related to certain restrictions related to the pandemic, and all other cases are related to those problems that have been being dragged to us for many years, so with inadequate health care in the face of some kind of official's actions, amongst the prison violence, with inadequate conditions of accommodation, etc. When we talk about health care, I see that my colleague Bosnjakovic mentioned it too, and let's just say that the report is a little missing, and they would say that. This aspect is mentioned in principle and more or less is actually said to provide inmates and minors with treatment from a domain such as anyone who has compulsory health insurance, that it will be provided in hospitals of criminal bodies and institutions or in the nearest institutions, and that specialist examinations and hospital treatment will be carried out in a prison hospital. Now, I think you're also quoting numbers, and among other things, the report says that the largest number of people deprived of freedom applies to psychiatric diseases that we can understand, and then when you look at a prison hospital here, unfortunately, there's none of the fellow psychiatrists we normally have in the assembly, in the prison hospital, you have 90 acute psychiatric beds, you have one permanent psychiatrist and two in a half-time, so one and a half psychiatrists on 90 acute beds. I think as someone who worked at the hospital it's impossible, my colleague Reeiner will confirm it, I think so can't provide adequate care and then makes the working conditions for that healthcare staff equally impossible. And I know you've been looking for psychiatrists there for years and nobody wants to work there, so now these two who work part-time are retired people who patch up pensions there, but that's that vicious circle. So we have inadequate conditions, we have devastated staff, and then we don't have the proper care and it draws each other. So, in the report of the attorney general I read, it says that the prisoners complained frequently that they were failing to get a specialist checkup, that even though they were unable to get any information on whether they were ordered, how long they would wait, etc. and what's worrying and ok, it's certainly partly related to the pandemic, but perhaps you should pay attention to that if they have a very difficult communication with the selected doctors of family medicine and dentists. So, I repeat, everyone had difficulty in 2020 with that kind of communication, but this should be watched in the future anyway. Okay, so that's now about the health system past the pandemic. Secondly, there are also complaints at the expense of accommodation, and I think that in the pandemic frameworks there is even more expression, so that sometimes these spaces are overcrowded, that sanitary nodes are not available enough, which is of course not adequate, nor in the context of human dignity, but under pandemic conditions is not healthy either. On the other hand, from what I've read, it appears that the prison system responded adequately to the pandemic, that it reacted in a timely manner, that for a very long time it resisted the virus’s penetration, that when the virus and penetrated that it had successfully dealt with it, which is certainly commendable. I also commend that it allowed prisoners that after banning visits were imposed they had extended phone calls and that they had been enabled and video visits. What is not good is that the phone extended calls continued to account as a financial burden for the prisoners themselves, and we know that the prices of these phone calls were more than market calls, and in this prisoner they had no equal opportunity to work as they had until then a higher pandemic. There have also been a lot of complaints about inadequate treatment during 2020. These are complaints filed by the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System and Prosecution, but in fact the answers that came from that central office were very often patterned, or on most complaints received one and the same answer from two sentences saying that no irregularities were found. So, it's the opposite of what the attorney general's office has been looking for for years, which is that each complaint is individually considered and then handled. This way I don't think we're actually going to make a move in that sense. I also think it's worrying that it's still the same pace as the occupier's lawyer complains about amongst prison violence or I think it's one of the key things that should be fixed, so she was getting the same, the office was actually getting the same number of complaints about the violence of every kind and physically and sexually and psychologically and especially of particularly vulnerable groups, so from the Roma group, from a group of people with intellectual difficulties, so it actually just proves that there is no strategy and that there is no more important prevention, so there are no preventive mechanisms that would actually affect the fact that prisoners can endure prison sentences in a secure and dignified way. We would therefore like to see more information in future reports about the violence itself among prisoners. Let's say this report states that there were deaths in prisons, but apart from finding out that none of the cases were the result of suicide, which is certainly good, we don't know anything about how other deaths occurred. What I also think is worth being highlighted in the report is the willingness of the system to co-operate with civil society organisations, these are some of the most valuable projects of the "Grates are not an obstacle" on the next, that is, indeed, they are great things. We regret that this has weakened a little because of the pandemic, but we believe that, that it has already come to life or that it will come to life in the future. Many here have also talked about the demanding conditions in which the guards work. We, from the Green Left Block, really hold that, that the guards are not only guardians, but that they are a key resource that can contribute and actually promote rehabilitation and resociation of the executioners themselves, and on that side should actually be significantly more graphified because, as with the healthcare staff in that system, it is precisely the lack and absence of that grace that begins to create this vicious circle that there are less and less of them, that the conditions are becoming more and more difficult, that they are then increasingly occurring in that system, etc. However, as I understand it, we have recently changed the law to raise that age line because unfortunately there are not enough to eat. And for the very end, I would point out a sentence in a report that I think is very important, which is that, given the gender in the prison system, male prisoners dominate 94.27% of men, compared to women who are only 5.72%. So it's a data that can't crystallize how the problem of violence, the problem of delinquency, the problem of criminal offences has its own, its birth ground, so it's rooted in its birth, and in this sense it's really important that this conditionality of the parent service finally begin to be recognized and that the rehabilitation problems are actually directed through the perspective. Here, I hope we read more about it in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101271	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the honourable representative Michel Jaksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101272	Thank you, Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon and a nice greeting to all. In the name of the SDP Club, what we need to underline is that this is not certainly a topic on which the government and any debate can pick up applause, and it is certain that this is the topic from which the mass of people would rather run away in their not only debates but also in their own thoughts. What's definitely that additional fact of pain is all that attitude and all the feeling that exists in our judiciary and according to numerous court proceedings, court decisions, and then when it comes to the work of a probation service or a penitentiary that we have today as a united debate is definitely not a light topic to be called in some political jargon. What we want to point out at the very beginning is that technical and implementing reports are all done correctly, there can be a lot of data, there can even be some comparatives, although we would certainly like to have more specific comparisons in some future reports as to how we are standing with the EU and what steps are taken from year to year, and not even that reports are coming to us to discuss, something to say and then we are no longer drawing the line that has been made and why it has been done, but we would also like to have a few more indicators that are happening with certain and neural points and certain problems in the system itself either appear or appear from time to time and appear. When we talk about this, of course, that the report covers pandemic times and it is certain that, as in many other fields, much has changed and worked in a different way. Some things may have been made easier by the crown within the system itself, but what remains is that there have been a lack of complaints from both the judicial officers and all other people involved in the work of our prison system, as there have been certain complaints received on the Justice Committee by the prisoners themselves and the prisoners themselves who have explained in several letters why they think they are violating certain rights that they should have regardless of the current social status they have. Okay, the crown praises God in this form of lockdowns remained behind us, today we are going towards some new discussions and according to some new plans, and it is certain that we would like to see in the coming years which European prison system Croatia wants to settle, which are the models that we want to develop in the Republic and how this system will function in these future times. So, what we're thinking of doing with infrastructure problems, even though we admit that certain repairs are still made, when we're not going to have complaints about the state of the penitentiary, what we're going to do with situations that have arisen from murder to drug trafficking, to cell phone smuggling and other illicit stuff. Because apart from some media hickeys, we haven't heard that some institutional new step has been made and that something has been done that doesn't happen to us anymore. And how we intend to strengthen the entire system and to reintegration the resociation of all those who are in trouble with the law and are hit by the rule of law, but also in a strengthened way to protect the citizens of this country from those who unfortunately have penalties for committing serious crimes. It's not something that can be cleared up and solved, or even better debates from report to report. It is certain that we need a much wider and much deeper analysis of what we have today and what we think we should do in future times. It is certain that there is much to say and opposition. Of course, this is expected by automation, but surely there are a lot of professional people in Croatia who could make a strong inventory of the existing state with quality suggestions how to do as much with what we have, and also see how we can strengthen certain financial investments through our budget items in law for this system. Because what we're seeing in this report is that we haven't even filled out everything we have systematically in that system yet. We know ourselves that we often get both as parliamentary representatives and as a Committee on Justice and Appeals of Judicial Officers and Prison Guards on their material rights, on all their material conditions, on their working conditions. And what we must honestly say is that we haven't moved too much here, no matter how constant these complaints are. What we have the opportunity to hear in today's debates, see in the reports, but also hear when certain complaints arrive that the same question is how professional capacitation is to implement everything that is needed and from the aspect of medical and psychosocial and any other help that these people need and that is definitely something that I think we will all have to do a lot more in the coming days. This is a serious topic, we are talking about a serious and very important system for the functioning of a modern, democratic state where everyone would like the rule of law respected. And it is certain that, regardless of all the steps that are being done, some of them have been stepped up in these steps by entering the EU, that we should all together through the idea both through discussion and through the analysis of the situation, but then, after that, also through budgetary separation, give us much more than we have given so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101273	The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Sačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101274	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and fellow state secretary, associates, Croatian public. Here again we have the opportunity to analyze the reports we received about the work of the probation service and the situation in our penitentiary, prisons, the execution of criminal sanctions. What we can rightly point out as a club of Croatian sovereigns is that we are not happy to discuss the report on the work of our services, the important services in 2022, and this refers to 2020. But let's just say that our Secretariat of the Parliament set it that way. The whole situation regarding the execution of this complex task of our society depends in fact on the decisions of our judicial bodies, so that every report on the work of our probation services and the execution of prisons and all criminal sanctions must be brought to order at the general level with the criminal policy which I have said is determined by our courts, and the overall opinion is in Croatia, and so is the data when we analyse the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia, and the courts that we have opportunities every year in this assembly to have on our benches, then we can come to the conclusion that our criminal policy is very mild and that in a rather liberal way we want to show ourselves, achieve the purpose of punishment defined by the Constitution and special laws, that the offenders, the most serious offenders and perpetrators of the most serious crimes are actually trying to reintegrate, re-socialise, to say and separate from their criminal lives, and to become again become responsible members of our members, responsible members of our society. To what extent it is effective, it is difficult to say at this point when we have some statistics that unfortunately the number of relapsers and returnees, especially in the younger population, are offenders of the criminal acts in continuing growth. It's a sign that you need to change a certain approach, and it's not easy. This should include the entire scientific and professional public, highly qualified experts, targeted by the state and effects of such measures outside Croatia on European soil as we saw there in Scandinavia. What is achieved in America and elsewhere. And then finally take the direction that approach would be best if our perpetrator of a crime affected by a multitude of factors at some point did not decide to break the law but to solve his life problems in a civilized way and how the society expects him to. It's hard to say, we can only idealize and hope that we will come in a moment for such people who don't see the way, who come to the wall to be less and less, but there will be forever. And this society of ours has recently been able to say that we are dealing with this problem as a community in a civilised, generally acceptable way, that we have largely accepted all these high achievements of penological science and the experiences of other highly developed countries, that our prison system consisting of penitentiary, of the prisons of the juvenile institution, has primarily been functioning for women lately, in the last year, two, three, in one way that keeps things above water. And what does that mean? This means that, with a minimum investment of only 55 million kunas that we spend annually on the functioning of the entire system, we are somehow keeping under control about 3,500 prisoners, punishers of whom only on the back of the 2.550 people employed in that system as judicial officers conditionally told by the judicial guards that they carry the whole burden on their backs with this upgraded part of highly professional this person, service and testing and those in the system, the system of execution of criminal sanctions at the level of the ministry, but the greatest burden lies on the backs of those 2,500 people, and this society predicted to be 3,500 means as many as 1,000 people are missing to do their task as it is puts before them. And high standards, these standards and regulations have been resolved, international standards because the fundamental, fundamental principle of maintaining the prison in Croatia is to respect the human dignity of a person who is actually in a system of taking away freedom, the legal system of taking away freedom. Of course, we had an opportunity to hear a dramatic letter, an exposure from our fellow Dretar who I have no doubt gave one honest and one would say a truly alarming display of the life and work of a prison guard, a judicial officer. In that prison, in any prison that is missing, people lack to perform their jobs and tasks without excessive stress and risk, and to perform their functions. Unfortunately, we're not in that position today, and that's, that's this huge lack of this Justice Department. You haven't done that in the last year, two enough to first educate, to animate first of all, motivate one number of people to enter that system legally and educate them, to keep them in that system for doing a hard job because it's not just a job, it's ultimately a specific, well a certain life mission, as is a life mission for a cop, like a life mission for a teacher. Thus, in a specific way, this stressful and extremely difficult life mission is to be a judicial officer all his life who has done his hard work with people who have broken the law and who are not difficult and who need to move around daily, while at the same time coming home to their family and doing all the other tasks that each of us should civilisedly and culturally and responsibly carry out. There you have not done what you have to do and it is your task that if you need to find a way to attract these people into the system because they have a direct impact on re-advism and re-socialization, reintegration of these people. In fact, they are daily with these law breakingers and the most difficult cases and depending on them, it is actually the last line of defense, that is what Croatian society all want to end well, to end with as little of this violation of the law as possible, to end each, every conflict socially in a civilized way, but the tool that we have on hand, in addition to closures and bars are people who daily need except professional services, but who daily need these offenders especially these younger lifetimes to know that the world has not stopped and that they can and need to be corrected conditionally. If we don't have these people, such good, such angels in this world, then the chances of recidivism are much greater. So, and this tells you that something bad has been happening in the number of violent delicacies since 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, it is constantly increasing to you. So it doesn't accidentally increase the number of violence in our penitentiary and prisons. It is also influenced by many factors, and one of them is the insufficient number of our judicial officers to work and to be there as adversaries and to prevent, prevent such conflicts from one another. So, at the principle level of things we legally well set up and our legal architecture should guarantee that anyone who enters is registered, punished, sentenced, when entering our prison system, should in a civilised and controlled process execute their sentence after the time that the judge has ordered him to go out as a man who is capable of social life. Of course, thank God we have no objections in recent years either by the EU, the European Commission or by international institutions dealing with the monitoring of such types of prison violence. So we've long gone from any process of torture, abuse of violence by repressive unnecessary repression in the prison system, and that's very good, that's a positive value, and yet the value that lies on the back of our judicial police to the greatest extent, and then the surveillance system that doesn't allow our officers to abuse their position and thus create even more conflicts, that is to say, human rights and freedoms for convicted persons. But it should also be pointed out that in some investigative prisons, where these warrants are executed in criminal proceedings, we do not have enough space, first of all, for our Remitinc investigative prison, there are major problems, it must be. We have a chance to get rid of it. The law gives you a chance. You have to keep doing this to dissipate this system, because in the end of these 3900 beds conditionally said for prisoners that as a society we now have ready for those to whom the court determines the deprivement, i.e. the absence of freedom is only 2500 seems filled with this moment of inmate. Thus, there is no need, regardless of the earthquake, for a hundred people we moved from Clay and a hundred from Sisak. You need to make one more humane environment, a more civilized way of executing difficult times to offenders of potential, defendants or indictees who are awaiting their trial in Remetec because there are the strictest prisons. There, when we consider the presumption of innocence there, we have people who are potentially innocent and suffer very great restrictions on their own rights and freedoms, and then they need this society to meet and do what is necessary not to suffer them or their families more than can be expected at all. All in all, I want you to repair these personnel insufficiencys, these personnel deficits, and continue the human work and the treatment of our prisoners, the convicts, to keep them safe. We have provided them with all rights under international and European regulations and in accordance with with our Constitution and to be their life as easy as possible and to be [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Turn peace and responsibility into freedom. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101275	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and the Voice, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101276	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have the 2020 reports ahead of us. In 2020, it is an unusual year, the year Croatia was hit by the coronus, i.e. covid as the whole world. But what we still had was such an additional accident, and these were earthquakes, and it is seen through the report that these earthquakes really made it impossible in a certain way and two locations, so Sisak and Petrinja, that is, it is not unusual that it was there in such a way that the prisons in Clay and the prison in Sisak did not unusually happen there. But what I would like to say through this report is: “Any report I am looking at in that formal part and the essential part. In the formal part I can't object, I can say it's a correct report that has quite enough data. With that data, you can handle it well. There is one methodology of the report so that reports can be compared to years ago. But what we should be interested in is this content part. And I'd like to highlight this content part a little bit. When anyone mentions prison or anything, I'm sure it's always on our mind that those pictures are from some American movies and prisons in America. And what we need to know about us isn't so and thank God it's not. Because when we look at all the violence that they are, when we see that at one point in America about a decade ago, the building of a prison went through a private public partnership project no matter what it was called, so it can't be called that, but the privates were building prisons, and then they were dealing with certain judges very openly and clearly can be said, because there are indicators and data, the judges judged what they needed or didn't need to be filled with prisons. And what we really need to know is that the situation in Croatia is not like that, but the situation in Croatia in prisons and in general regarding the work of certain services should be seen in the context of our laws and laws as we have changed and the facts that we have had. There's always this one saying that the grass in the neighboring yard is greener. That's what we from this pay phone and I also call it the siren when I resist, which is to try to say that in some other countries it's better arranged, that some other countries have it better. When it comes to the prison system, then we like to say how it was done or what it was like in Scandinavia. But in Croatia it would be like Scandinavia we should be Scandinavians and we're not. We are who we are and we need to look at the system we have. What the figures show is the following and what I want in the first part of this exhibition is the following, and that is a small number of employees. So on one prisoner according to the data is somewhere above two, two and three, two four depending on what he looks at employees in the health system and it shows that the rules, the systematizations have a need for one, so for one number and the reality is that he needs to be more employees, and there's not enough. And now there are colleagues and colleagues in another situation. There's no one in our ranks or in the media who won't say in public space how many employees there are in public systems, how many employees there are in the public administration, that people are constantly employed there, that then we compare it when it's as much, and then when you get a report like this, you see from this one report that whoever's in the system says my people in the system are too few and so are my colleagues who spoke before me, talking from different aspects, says we don't have enough people to make the system work. And that's a fact. Now, where's the truth? The truth is always, I always kind of think the truth is in the middle. On the one hand you know you might be filling a system that you don't need and in which you have, there's not so much, and on the other hand, that system that should actually have people who can do this job you have too little. In the prison system is this sensitive relationship between someone who is incarcerated and someone who lives there with him. So the one who, therefore, is the guardians, is all those other services they live with. They must also take care of other matters, and that one sensitivity of all of them, and I read these reports in substance through it. The content of these reports I want to get the data and I want them, so that's where it's showing up, we have everything we can handle, but then when we go to change some laws, we need to take care of it. So we in prisons have 3,919 places, that's the data that's from this and the data that's been continuous. Essentially, the question is whether we're going to lay our laws out in a way that we're much more into some kind of open-minded type, about when for some minor acts to wear bracelets or if we want to have more room in prisons. This is a key question that we from this report and all of this need to answer because if we answer that and say that Croatia should have, but this is not only about this, it is about all the legislation, because from this legislation then and the way that we are dealing with certain works, we will get to the number of people in prison or we have some other model. So it's all a system of connected vessels. You can't look at this separately without looking at everything else. So, as you can't look at employees, you can't just watch those who are prison guards, you should look at social workers, you should look at doctors and you should watch and I don't know psychiatrists, you should look at everyone else because they all actually make up this one mini system. So a few years ago, maybe it was a 10-year-old who decided to build a prison in Sibenik, even though it was even a location, and it was the idea to withdraw certain EU funds for it all together because then, it was actually shown that this number of places in prisons was too small. I really don't want to be a judge at all and say that, the number of places we have in prisons is too small, we're going to have to do something and strengthen the number of places, but I don't even want to say the number of places is enough he depends on some other things. It depends on how we lay down our legislation, how we punish for certain acts, because if we also punish them for going into a really closed system, then I'm sure it's too small, and if not, that's enough. What's important is the part that I'm always interested in is this educational, educational programme, cooperation with civil society. So when you're talking about 2020, when you're talking about context at all, remember, so in 2020, it was kind of me thinking about it as if it wasn't even there, we were living in some kind of context, and I'm sure the prison system was living in some different conditions, and what I expected was going to take a special look at the number of suicides. I was kind of expecting it to be 2020, because that consequence so we're going to see through some numbers and stuff, but the number of suicides or not at all if I'm not mistaken either, so it turns out that in 2020, or that what happened outside the prison system in the prison system wasn't. I always find it interesting from those reports to see what number the fugitives were. So, when it was running away from certain penitentiary or educational institutions or in that kind of transport and it's somewhere at the level of 2019, so there aren't any of those topics that I'd like to report to, back to those American movies doing American movies. There's one more thing that I think we need to get further into the report and that's opening up the problem. So what when you look at a little bit of all the documentation, what everyone points out, shows is that they are not adequate conditions for talking prisons, there are standard ones about the number of squares, or they count in cubes towards one prisoner. Our prisoners, when sued by the EU institutions, receive, so after closed, prisoners who have decided to go before certain EU courts, they receive and receive certain fees. I would like in one, another report or report when it comes to having a little bit and that part that is related to standards, to the standards that are, which are at the level of some average, where we are, how many lawsuits that our prisoners are when they come out of it, how it ended and what we're doing and what we're doing. The conclusion is one report that is correct, a report in which you have enough data. This part I specifically state because that part of the report should definitely be where we are, which we are in this whole context. And from this report, in fact, you should always read and I especially stress this report should be seen in the context and in all other laws because then all other laws we must lie to the country as we wish to be. And I'm always reading it that way, whether we want to be a country that has more room in prisons or we're going to be, or we want to be a country where for certain works that it's estimated to be a device, condemned, and everything else is given the possibility of some more open type and some other thing. In a 20-year-old they were always, it was different about those cases that were the result of car accidents, and then they were in some more open-minded types, but it's actually one policy. One country's policy of relations to justice and relations to the entire system, and we read and read these reports from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101277	We move to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101278	Thank you. It is quite clear, and all colleagues pointed out in their debate that it takes much more investment in both our prison system and our probation service, that the capacities themselves, and of course the people who work there deserve better conditions, therefore both work and business, and I have nothing to add to that. In his opening statement, the State Secretary said that it simply cannot affect the judiciary itself, and we cannot know at all times how much pressure there will be on prisons and prisons, but we need to prepare ourselves. And here I would tell the secretary of state to try to influence both the minister himself and the government to secure larger financial resources and for the meaning of the prison system because as things stand, the pressure on the prison system will be growing and higher. This is also shown by these affairs, where an increasing number of government officials are coming under attack means independent bodies, as well as the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We have a situation right now where we are actually trying to decriminalize the government as a government reconstruction. So it's not about any government reconstruction, it's about moving out of the government of those who are under the burden of investigating independent bodies. I want to thank all the MPs who have shown true opposition from this place. So here are the representatives of the Social Democrats Club, there's a representative of the Homeland Movement Club, and here I want to report from this place and the public and the media and the citizens that it has collected 31 signatures for the recall of 3 government officials. It is Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, which is Minister of Economy Coric and Minister of Labour means the pension system of Aladrovic. With a move like this No, I'm not talking about pressure on the prison system. [[Let's get back to it.]] So this kind of move, so you've been arrested by Minister Horvat was in custody and we're talking about how we don't have enough capacity, we don't have a place, we're not ready, and this tide is going to be bigger and bigger, and especially when we take responsibility for this country, when the institutions become free, when we give them full freedom to review everything that's been criminally investigated, all the contracts, all the employment, all the support, then this vice president's pressure will grow. I want to help this government secure the funds for what's going to happen. Not to be surprised, as Prime Minister Plenkovic was surprised by the arrest of Minister Horvat. So, with this move, we have actually made it impossible for Plenkovic to talk about some government reconstruction, to do it in peace, to present it as strengthening and empowerment rather than coming here or if he is conducting a reconstruction before the government has at least seven days to manifest itself on this request. That's all I have to say, more funding for our prison system, better pay for all the people who are employed in that prison system because it's certainly not an easy job. I listened to a colleague of the Dretars who talked about it and actually read a letter about it, so there must be a lot more investment, investment in capacities and people who are employed there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101279	The Honorable representative of Dretar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101280	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Representative Grmoy, we have come to some concrete indicators during this debate today. 150% of the people in the system are, or whatever they are called, protégés, prisoners, or those who are under educational or whatever measures they are. So one and a half times as many as they should be, and the employees are 72%. So a little more than a quarter of them are missing. Well, here's an interesting idea, so maybe I should hear your comment. In order to expand the capacity of the prison system, can we think about the possible construction of new prisons or any other facilities through the process, i.e. through the principle of public-private partnership? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101281	Before you answer, a respected representative of Buddinski raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101282	Thank you very much, Vice President. Injury 238. You hurt your colleague Grmoi's article 238, because look, first you didn't talk about the subject, and second you don't do the government's reconstruction, you're going to be working on the Prime Minister who got a mandate from the citizens to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101283	I told my colleagues that and he came back on the subject, so I did it. Okay. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101284	So I'm not sure that such a model would be very acceptable, because there is a possibility that those involved in this government that would implement this kind of public private partnership model would not be certain that all those involved in the implementation of the project would not fill those capacities that would be built through this public-private partnership. So I'm not sure that's gonna solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101285	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101286	Your Honor, I will rule out the opportunity to draw attention to my colleague that unfortunately the government's current reconstruction is being done by law enforcement authorities and the judicial system, not by the prime minister. But okay, now it's on the sidelines. You've probably studied the budget and you've seen that there's actually less resources in the budget for the sampling system and the prison system. And the question is, is there even enough money if all jobs are filled and if they want to raise salaries for these employees, is it even feasible with these resources currently available?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101287	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101288	Well, I made it clear that, of course, only the reduction of funds shows that the government is actually not leading one policy, strategically so that it monitors the current situation in that system, and especially, so if we have the fact that the government does, here's at least saying it does, that it speeds up somehow and judicial proceedings and that our processes take too long. If what the Government announces is truly realising is that the procedures will last shorter this will necessarily lead to a greater charge of these capacities and it is logical to ensure greater resources. And of course what the colleague said, the prime minister is conducting a reconstruction. What kind of prime minister is conducting a reconstruction? So, your esteemed colleague has been arrested by Minister Horvat. ♪ Hoping and DORH ♪ ♪ Leading you to action ♪ against government officials so it's clear who's in charge of the government's reconstruction. [[You can't answer to your colleague!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101289	You can't answer to your colleague, you can answer to your colleague Pavić. Yeah? Thank you very much. She will now speak to a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, please. [[Grmoya raider: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101290	Ladies and gentlemen, this report unfortunately does not give a real picture of the situation in Croatian prisons. It hides the deficits of a prison system which acts against the standards of democratic and orderly states and does not meet the purpose of its existence and mission. Penalties are as the name tells them by institutions in which the convict executes the punishment for his illegal crimes, and his freedom has been taken away. During the execution of the sentence, the prison system shall have the task of resociating the person concerned in order to become a positive member of the society in which it lives again after the end of the sentence. It should therefore be made clear that prisons are institutions for breeding, but they are not torture facilities. Prisoners must not be harassed, or ghettoized because this is the way to repeat the offense which is harmful to the person himself as well as to society as a whole. A little less than 10 years ago, the judge of the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Professor Angelika Nussberger, interpreted the differences between the actions of the judiciary and the repressive apparatus in functional democracies and those countries believed to have democratic deficits. In 2013, she said that, for example, the requirements of the State Attorney's Office in Russia were adopted by courts in more than 90% of cases, while in countries such as Germany, Finland, etc. the procedure is often below 50%. The message is a clear judicial system that acts strictly under the law which guarantees civil freedom and the security of citizens in the legal order, and the state government has frameworks in which it must act. In this context, it also spoke of a prison system, of unacceptable conditions for prison convicts in Russia, and of decent and dignified conditions in the countries mentioned in Germany, Finland, etc. Because the loss of freedom is the greatest punishment for every man but a decent, civilised state respects every man and his human dignity and so does the convict. The Croatian prison system, however, works according to an outdated south model, which the mentioned professor calls democratic deficit. The people who run the prison system at the justice ministry, Jure Martinovic and Jure Zulj, as old south personnel, do not know democratic standards, nor human rights. For example, I am approached by families of convicts from Lipovica Penitentiary who tell me that prisoners do not allow them to have a sacred mass even on Christmas Day, and prison guards act inappropriately and aggressively towards those families when they visit their loved ones in that prison. Lipovica is otherwise an open-ended prison, and there is no need for aggressive and rude chicanking or prisoners, or their visitors, but the brutality that ordinary prisoners feel does not feel privileged powerful men. We all remember the status enjoyed in Croatia by the comfort killer Josip Perkovic. He's got the treatment of a social dignitary. When police brought him in when he was extradited to Germany, he was not even handcuffed by handcuffs, and the Saudi bully was walking around like he was going on a field trip. In Munich, a German police officer was welcomed with phantom hats on his head and long pipes and treated Perkovic as a terrorist because the organisation of someone's murder is an act of terrorism. I am here to conclude that the conjugal killers in Croatia are prominent persons, and these same persons in one Germany are treated as terrorists. The second case is the case of Radiir Cacic, otherwise the son of Milan Cacic, a Yugoslav prosecutor who processed Croatian students after MASPOK. This Cacic, or Cacic, who was convicted in Hungary, but who executed the punishment in Croatia, the press cameras found, for example, golfing in Istria. Again, evidence that the laws do not apply to the refugees and their children, but as non-indulgent laws do not apply to Croatian defenders, for example, rigorously apply. Let's remember General Đura Brodarac, a man with heart problems, he was placed at 40 degrees in a cell with seven prisoners. General Brodarac got a heart attack due to that torture and died. The Croatian state does not need totalitarian penitentiary but modern and efficient prison institutions that bring fallen people back on track. And that's why I'm against this report because he didn't give the right picture or offer solutions to the future. Croatia needs to invest in existing prisons to make them bearable to the prisoners. Croatia must also build new prisons because it will lack capacity when the time of the bill comes soon. This, the moment the laws are applied in Croatia and there is no untouchable part of today's ruling political judicial media octopus will certainly be in prison, and then Croatia will take big and fast steps in the better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101291	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101292	Yes, thank you, well-respected chairman. So that we can continue here on the words of the distinguished MP Vidovic Kristo and paraphrasing the somewhere saying, politicians as well as wine are better if they do a bit of time, right. I will deal with this report in these five minutes from perspectives we may not have pointed out enough. For example, in this report there are several extremely interesting sites related to disabled prisoners, so I'll just quote a few sentences from the report and then comment on them. Therefore, people with disabilities include those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage that can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others. On 31 December 2020, the final day of this report was understood, 6 persons with severe physical disability or persons with wheelchairs, 29 persons with limited movement using crutches or other aid. We've seen this before many times when they bring them to the court of crutches has particularly helped these from the spectrum of political prisoners almost inevitably. There are 16 people with impaired hearing, one person with impaired vision who uses a white stick, 7 is a person with multiple damage while 3 people were partially deprived of their business skills. During 2020, 8 people with severe physical disabilities, etc., and so on, numbers are really worrying and large in particular from the perspective when we consider calling them this and physically completely healthy or mentally healthy people it is difficult to understand to be inside a prison and repair system, we can imagine how disabled people are, and it is even more important that the real quality and accommodation and possibility of accommodation, the capacity of the system, the quality of all those within that system are employed and further advanced so that there are people with disabilities who were still easier to live within that system. Especially worrying are the data on drug addicts. Almost as a rule, drug addiction is directly linked to the conduct of criminal acts. The rate of relapse in this group is, of course, higher than in the general prison population. During 2020, a total of 1,219 inmates and drug addicts were present in the prison system, making up little more than 10% of the total, namely 10.5% of the total prison population. When we talk only about the people who were on a prison sentence during the year of drug addicts, there were 617 and in this subcategory of prisoners, they accounted for a proportion of 14.38%. On 31 December 2020, the sentence of juvenile prison or educational measure was expressed by 62 persons, 18 and 29%, respectively, of whom certain drug addiction methods were identified. problems caused by drug use. The indicators are clear, so in the adult population within the system, percentages range between 11% and 13% while in the juvenile population they are closer numbers 30, 29.03% which tells us clearly or teaches us minors are prone to enjoying and over or any use of drugs or opiates, and therefore, of course, to criminal or any other acts that can lead them into a prison or correctional system, and there is still a need for youth education, working with young people where once again as a home movement, we need to repeat family, family, family from that point of view most of all. Something about the very structure of the equipment of the criminal bodies and, of course, the budget items I'll say in the final presentation, since here I've come out of time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101293	We have one replica, stay here. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101294	Your Honor. It's a good thing you've turned your attention to drug addicts and I believe that in preparation for today's exposure you've been in contact with prison employees, so I'd like to ask you first your position, do you think these addicts should be placed in special facilities and what is the opinion of the employees who spoke to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101295	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101296	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Representative Pavić. When we talk about placing drug addicts in any of that intensity in a separate facility, personally I'm not in favour, but I suppose it would be about getting overskilled, and there certainly takes one much, much wider study and a lot more professional people than me. I think they still have certain inclusions in this way, and then, of course, it depends again on what is called money after all, or the means that can be provided to such people with adequate medical care and then psychosocial and any other care they need. The experiences of this dear friend of mine working in the Zagorje area, two nights she's on duty at the Varazdin Investigation Court, and then she's in the morning working at the Zlatar Court and all for 5.5 thousand kuna, I think what I've just said in this one sentence is quite enough to say what her experiences are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101297	Thank you. She will now speak to a respected representative, Anita Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101298	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look more closely at the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Only in 2020. 11607 people have gone through the prison system, and that number has been known to be over 12,000 for the past few years. At the end of 2020. in the prison system means penitentiaries, prisons and all others there were 2.558 employees, so over 14,000 users and employees are located in the prison system. So it's a big and important system that's 2020. had almost 550 million revenues of which 93.3% were from the state budget. It is a high price paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is therefore in our interest to have a quality prison system that will enable people to stay human and useful and training for life on the loose in accordance with the law and social standards in as few repeated criminal and other crimes as possible. It is therefore certainly important to cooperate with the prison and probation system, but also to work professionally and professionally with prisoners during the maintenance of the sentence as well as to enable basic and professional education, as well as to work during the maintenance of the sentence. About 26% of prisoners who perform various jobs and are paid for it are employed, and it is significant that a large part of the food products inmates produce themselves. I will give an example of the prison in Gospić, which also has the elements of the penitentiary because it has established a Department for the maintenance of long-term penalties. So as part of Gospić prison prisoners in isolated prison units, since the main building is in the city center, they grow sheep, goats and pigs and significant quantities of potatoes that supply the entire prison system, but some of it is sold on the market and income is realised. That's why at the level of the entire prison system about 30 million kunas are revenues from their own activity. The system is that it rests on a combination of technical equipment to provide conditions for the safe and human stay of prisoners, as well as prison officials who have to and have proven that they can respond quickly and ready to unexpected changes and increased scope of work. 2020 It has been extremely challenging for the prison system and for the coronary virus since it is a long-term stay in closed spaces, some prison facilities have become unusable due to the earthquake and prisoners have been moved to other facilities. Some prisons such as Gospić had additional challenges related to the migration crisis that continued since 2019. which meant a greater inflow of prisoners from other countries, whether they are trying illegally to cross the border, whether they are helping them, and they are rarely foreign citizens. It is about persons from different countries with prominent linguistic, cultural, religious and other differences that are important and a security risk to the prison system because there is also a person with a criminal past, and it is difficult to exchange data with the same with individual countries. In such situations prison facilities are also attended by members of opposing groups and peoples who need to be identified and prevented from radicalising and conflicting in prisons. It also increases the cost of the overall health system because foreign citizens who flee from their countries generally do not have health insurance, and they need medical examinations, therapy, etc. That is why prison in Gospić, along with other members of the judicial system, is an example of professional, dedicated and conscientious work in such difficult situations and can proudly thank them and commend them for the successful and still unfinished work that has been imposed on them by the migrant crisis combined with the coronary pandemic. The space for improving the conditions in the prison system has, has long not been significantly invested, and I hope that in the next financial perspectives, funds will be provided to improve the conditions in prisons and prisoners, but also to officials in the system because it is demanding jobs and difficult working conditions that include hard psychophysical engagement in the performance of jobs, it means prisoners of different characteristics, age groups, habits, behaviours, and perpetrators of various criminal and other acts located under the same roof, which certainly affects the burden of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101299	Thank you very much. We have more replicas believe it or not, he's the first respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101300	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Pocrnic Radošević, here you mentioned in your debate the Penalty in Gospić, which is certainly one of the strictest and most protected in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also a few segments and interesting. You said that the main building is located in the centre of the town in the centre of Gospić, that there is a closed part about the execution of long-term penalties, but there is also an open part of the half-free area where prisoners essentially do business, they deal with agriculture, they deal with livestock, it's certainly about their rehabilitation, but they also get about 1,000 kuna each month, and I think it's specific, maybe even in today's debate, how it comes from the penitentiary in the city center to the fact that the penitentiary takes care of itself, but also of the citizens around it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101301	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101302	Thank you for your rep, Comrade Mazhar. Here's exactly what you've mentioned several times in the penitentiary, that's what I would certainly like in Lika County to see prison in Gospić become a penitentiary because he currently has prison status, although he does all the jobs have the elements of the penitentiary because he has a special department for prisoners who maintain long-term prison sentences. There are also facilities outside Gospić, one about 30 kilometers away, one 3-4 kilometers away where these farm estates where the prisoners work and earn their own wages, now depends on what amount they earn, in this case I don't know, and certainly the Gospić prison is a good example of how, how the prisoners spend their time usefully, resocialize and keep working habits and thus are certainly more ready to return to the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101303	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101304	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, we see from the report that in the prison system and probationary offices there were total in 2020. 11.607 prisoners, of which there were 1,276 foreign. And in your own debate, you have exposed that they have certain needs and problems, so I ask you, is that an additional burden for our system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101305	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101306	Thank you, dear colleague Budinsky. Yes, I have also mentioned in recent years the inflow of foreign citizens into Croatian prisons. This applies particularly to prisons that are closer to the border areas, one of them is certainly the prison in Gospić, it is not only burdened with prison, the state's attorney's office, the court is also burdened, and then they all try as painlessly as possible and as quickly as possible to do work related to foreign citizens, and certainly it is harder for them to have no county court in Gospić, so they have to go to Karlovac, which creates additional costs of transportation and employment, but they have done it very, very well and certainly that with foreign prisoners it is much harder because of religious, cultural, linguistic and all other barriers they have to overcome, but here goes well in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101307	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here in the report it is evident that a significant percentage of people involved in the trial here is expressed 37%, and 63 persons also involved in the trial is between 23 and 45 years of age, so people are very active in life, and surely this is one situation and activity where the whole society must be included in general because it is not the aim of society's priority, punishment or revenge but of change, change itself and its behaviour. That is why I think it is commendable that other and civil society associations, institutions, educated, educational institutions as well as educational institutions are involved, and I also think that it is still necessary to apply further to European funds, especially from the Social Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101309	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101310	Yes, thank fellow Brcic, we are aware that, if it were not a point in the execution of the sentence itself, it must be carried out for the actions committed, but that stay at the execution of the sentence should mean some, some new, maybe some new, and some energy and swing in the lives of the prisoners who will learn some new patterns of behavior, change those old, those who have not completed any school to enable them to get out of school, mainly it is an vocational education, to enable them to work, to acquire and work habits, and that is why it is just important that both the cooperation and probation services and the prison systems that together and prepare prisoners to get out of prison, and after which they leave, are under the auspices of whether probational services are together with civil society associations And for all that... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101311	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101312	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here is a little bit of a description of the situation with the prison in Gospić, which are opportunities to do enough, there are examples of other prisons and penitentiary in Croatia and that is all ok, but we will agree that the bad conditions for prisoners, but also the hard working conditions for employees, are missing them etc.. In any case, it should be pointed out that a large number of prisoners who complain of very poor and hygienic conditions and accommodation conditions are staying in the bathrooms without doors and that those who are sentenced to minor sentences are often placed with those convicts for serious criminal offences, and in that case, the restoring ministry would have to take care of that more so as to increase the number of those who are likely to sue the Republic of Croatia. I've come across such cases where they haven't been paid to such prisoners who sued the Republic of Croatia, so you have examples of where prisoners are staying at the nearest an institution where conditions are worse. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101313	Thank you. Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101314	Thank you. My colleague Maric, to think I don't have it in front of me right now, but that I saw some of the prisoners complaining about the terms of the accommodation and that these lawsuits were dropped, those complaints were rejected. I don't think there were many of them, just a few, so I really don't know, I can't say what conditions are in prison because I wasn't, but I certainly know that Gospic prison in Gospic is, say, a prison in a building that was built back in the days of Austro-Hungarian mean in the last century and that I don't believe that there can be any special, special conditions there and that they are tight enough and that it should certainly extend their capacities both because of the provision of better conditions for prisoners and because of working conditions for employees who spend a significant part of working time there in closed spaces, but also for staying and visiting children who come to visit and similar. There's room for improvement anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101315	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101316	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues in 2020 were challenging for everyone as well as for the prison system. It was a year followed by Covid-19, but also by devastating earthquakes, but I'm going to look back at a part of your discussion, and it's about the work of the prisoners. And we can see in the report that, of course, during the reporting period, 884 prisoners were on average hired on average, which is about 26% of the prisoners employed. It is organized through workshops, and much of it is produced by prisoners themselves, which you have mentioned through Gospić or the prison system in Gospić. We can see this as well as the penitentiary in Pozega by the incomes that are here in this report that we're doing just as good a job, but here I'm going to return to the systematization of the jobs you've been talking about. how much investment in personnel can improve the system. [[Upadica: Thank you very much, distinguished representative Pocrnic Radošević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101317	Thank you, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101318	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk, the question remains to hang in the air, but I think you wanted to ask how much investment in the prison system can help at the end and resociation and more usefully spent time in prison. Of course, that's good, and that's why I mentioned in my debate that about 26% of the prisoners participate in various types of prison affairs. These are the jobs they are capable of and who know how to work outside or for which they have acquired expertise in the prison system. Here Gospić is a really good example, they mainly deal with agriculture, but they also provided some craft services, but it certainly depends on the structure of the prisoners, because of course there is a fluctuation and that they are changing and that you do not always have masters for certain things, and now it depends on what activities they will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101319	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101320	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Secretary, through my debate I will try to explain to you as well as to those who are following us why I asked you a question about the motivation and security of your employees. Other employee data include data on the systematisation and filling of these systematicised jobs, and these data show that currently work for 2.558 employees at the Department of the Prison System, and we have them systematised 3.558. This means that the filling of these jobs is slightly less than 72% and that slightly higher than 28 jobs, this percent of jobs are unfulfilled. You yourself have stated that in all departments, penitentiaries, prisons, educational institutions and centres there are vacant systematic jobs that make it difficult for employees to carry out prison detention jobs. In the report, we can see between other data and data on cooperation with trade unions where 8 unions with a total of 2,076 members are said to operate in the prison system, resulting in more than 81% of employees being organised through trade unions or members of unions. This large percentage of employees who are members of the union may point to various conclusions, but since I haven't conducted any employee surveys or I've had contact with the trade unions, I don't want to make them a shortcut. However, what I can tell you as chairman of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership, what I can ask you, what I can appeal to is that employees in the system are given more or more special attention and that as responsible persons, try to draw attention to your superiors and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to problems in the system and start solving them as soon as possible. Do not forget how important, how difficult and how responsible your employees do daily, and how obliged you are to provide them as you yourself stated in the mission clearly set goals, a secure workplace, or a secure working environment, and to be motivated. Now, let me explain to you why this whole introduction through a little review that's only going on in your system for one job. As you know, among other things in your system, you have the education of prisoners and minors. You know that prisoners are encouraged to complete education in order to better integrate into the social community and to implement the training of prisoners in cooperation with external educational institutions, but also to organise training in penitentiary and prisons. This training is done by professional teachers who have a coefficient of 0.92. What does that mean? This means that without a 25% supplement, they would receive a minimum wage or minimum wage because their salary is with an addition of 5,200 kuna, which is far below the average of the profession. And now you put yourself in the shoes of an informer who works in a prison whose wages are off your system range from about 7 to 8 thousand kuna and it pays 5,200 kuna there. For now, their benefit is plus 4 months, and under the new rule it would only be two months while the amount of jobs remains the same or greater. And most importantly, do not forget that work continues to be maintained with prisoners in immediate danger, professional teachers do not have a self-defense exam and often work with prisoners without supervision near dangerous tools and tools. I believe it is clear to you that only motivated employees can carry out their duties on general satisfaction. According to the current state of the system, employees carry out their tasks and their work not because the employer or manager motivated them, but now the tasks are fulfilled because of the enthusiasm of employees and the quality of the cooperation of employees with direct managers. This must change as soon as possible and for reasons which are very well known to all of you and the Minister and those responsible for the prison system in the prison system administration. So once again I appeal, urgently make sure you fix the working conditions in which your employees work before some... an event that will throw all your efforts and efforts of your employees into another plan. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101321	And on your show we have more replicas, she is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101322	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have listed a number of important matters and important problems that exist in the system regarding the number of employees, I hope the Secretary of State has heard the appeal. It would especially highlight the amazing fact that our colleague Kekin told us what the number of beds in the prison hospital and how many employees there really are, means not only the doctor, there's also a problem with nurses, nurses, nurses and nurses, but it's just amazing to me how much it really takes for the rest of the ministry and the government to realize that it's high time to improve the working conditions, that these employees, as you said themselves, are motivated, and the secretary himself replied in the reply that the salaries are small for these healthcare professionals and try to increase them, so that they didn't increase them sooner, means not only for the medics but also for the other employees. What is your comment and final line and advice to the Secretary of State when will the food be started to improve the conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101323	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101324	Yes, it's a good thing you've turned your attention to medical staff as well. In fact, when I talked about it, it might be more correct if I said that all civilian persons in the service of the system are in a very unfavourable position, and that is how the medical workers who are here are exposed to various influences on the side. Unfortunately, there are also our employees who need psychophysical help, who have problems with this, and I'm not going to list everything we heard and what it looked like when we were preparing for this debate, and I was also doing one video of the state of the prison system five, six, seven years ago. and then I passed almost all the penitentiary in Croatia and I know what I came across, and the situation hasn't changed. What actually disappointed me is that in this entire report, employees are dedicated only to that dung, dung 3 pages in which nothing really shows what the real situation is with the employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101325	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101326	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So, fellow Pavić, in your debate, you led the main debate on the subject of the so-called Civil personnel working in the prison system and here is the main question, which is the motive of someone to report to the competition at all and go to work because it's really about the specific conditions to be absolutely clear you said that they should pass some kind of course or self-defense or something like that, but let's take it aside. So, it's always a question of what we want, are we going to have a health, prison system where we have prisoners and someone who keeps it safe or we want to build up education, prepare for some kind of socialization, prepare for when he's leaving prison, actually the theme that he never comes back again, for that to really be a whole bunch of other professions, and what's the motive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101327	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101328	Without, without all these factors that you've listed, there's no turning prisoners back into society, there's just no socialization, he's got to finish school, you've got a lot of inmates who don't have a finished primary school, whether it's minors or older people. You have a large number of inmates who don't have finished high school and those inmates who finish high school, who especially train for some occupations, they're the ones who are actually troublesome because they're being treated by civilians with, in a situation where they are, and that means they haven't completed a self-defense course, which they don't even need. Why don't they need them? Because there should be a person who would guard them because there has to be insurance there, but we see and we're missing 1,000 and then we have a problem, we have a problem shooting at all stitches.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101329	Thank you. Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Pavic, therefore on 31.12.2020, only 71.89% were filled with these employees in penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions. I remember when I was at the Ministry of Defence that, that she was, in fact, a big constituency for employment at a penitentiary in Clay that it was a very desirable job and that they were looking for potential future employees to confirm the status of defenders thinking that it would help them with future employment. What actually happened now that has become eloquent and unwanted employment in penitentiary and prisons? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101331	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101332	We know that the redistribution of employees in the state administration has made one large number of employees especially from the Customs Administration go to work in the prison system because the conditions were good. However, there was a neglect of the system. The wages remain the same, they didn't grow, the conditions that are related to uniforms, to cars, for the system itself have actually collapsed so much compared to other institutions that it's something amazing. Unfortunately, there is no record of this, and we need to be aware that this system, regardless of all possible standards that we will meet, regardless of the squares we will have per prisoner, will not be able to function without employees. And today, employees, or possibly new employees, are no longer interested in working in penitentiary offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101333	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101334	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Pavić, a little more data from the report. Average cost per prisoner in kuna 2016 total of 49 kuna 83 June, 2020 50 kuna 62 June, which is a five-year increase of 1.6% and this report is for 2020. We're actually getting inflation here, the spectacular rise in energy prices that we just need to experience. We'll see and we'll see what's going on with the rise in food prices, so maybe one of your forecasts is how will the report we're going to listen to in this place next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101335	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101336	One of our colleagues said the forecasts were ungrateful and he wouldn't want to give them away, but I think we all know if one big shift doesn't happen that we're going to have a big problem in that system. You said it yourself. So the cost increases by 3 kuna. If we look at how much inflation was, inflation at the level of the year is more than two, three kunas. So, what are we doing? What street are we taking this system to? Which way are we leading this system? What are we gonna do about that system? Who's going to work in that system? Nobody wants to work there anymore. People are just leaving, looking for a chance to move into other institutions. However, here is the current situation, and that is why I have appealed to Mr. Secretary and the associate of the lady who is in charge of this system in the ministry to do something and to respond to both the government and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101337	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101338	Thank you, dear colleague. Many today have been talked about the lack of judicial officers, so three and a half thousand were systematically systemized, and two and a half thousand were actually employed. There's been a lot of talk about their low wages, about inadequate care of the justice police system. But I would ask you to comment on the same important aspect, which is, that fact and that small number of judicial officers. As this reflects and relates to the life and work of the prisoners we expect to re-enact, of whom we expect to re-enter the community. How does this apply to their human rights if they live in a system and they have to be in a system where there are simply no law enforcement officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101339	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101340	The question is really in place. What we have been able to learn from this system through the conversations we have had over the past few weeks, is that actually, judicial officers who are actually working harder and more suffering and have to do more work. They must also do jobs for which they are not in charge and in such a way that they should not do it. If you've been listening to Mr. Dretar's statement, the esteemed representative of Dretar, I apologize, Davor, if you've been listening to his testimony, then he's just been talking about what's going on and how the judicial police are currently working in prisons. Although I think that letter was sent a few years ago, but the situation is currently in our penitentiary, in our prisons even worse than it was back then. And I believe that both the secretary and the lady in charge of the ministry system will really do something to fix it, to change it in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101341	Now, individual debates will be held by the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101342	Thank you. In this report, which in itself is already pointless because we are discussing the 2020 report. But we know that it is already an established and poor practice for rulings to be constantly late with reports from various public institutions or systems. We had to remind ourselves of the voting plan for the past year, and that was the highlight of absurdity. And it was clear that this poor practice of delaying the report would continue uninterruptedly. Of course, it is clear to all that such a delay is losing ground, which is that the debate gives guidance to improve the work of systems or individual institutions. So in this late report we've repeated this many times, it's obviously very important if we all repeat that we have 71.89% of law enforcement. It's already in itself I'm going to repeat I don't know which time is worrying, because there's a shortage of so-called. The security guard certainly acts exactly as we did on the quality of working with the prisoners in the penitentiary and in prisons as well as on the status of human rights and their living and working conditions, hence the prisoners themselves. But what doesn't have any information that's being controlled by the work of judicial officers? We have no doubt that the vast majority of their hard and responsible work does honorably and responsibly. However, there are individuals and individuals who violate the rules and laws and favor prisoners are presumed to be counterservice. The last such example is the Daruvarac case, which means the brutal beating of an 18-year-old girl in Zadar, the perpetrator was released for good behavior after only a little over three years in prison and was not even banned. In one reply to the replica, the State Secretary today said it was a matter of the judiciary. But it's not all that. In fact, the criminal administrations and prisons give an opinion, and without a positive opinion, it is not possible to obtain early parole on the loose. In particular, the request for parole states that the prisoner is D.K. The penalty began to endure with an assessment and was successful in modeling conduct and conduct. It was stated that he respected domestic law and prison rules, showed a high degree of responsibility and specifically treated himself, properly treated officials and other inmates with whom he shared accommodation. However, it has been reported in the media that within the prison system, however, there are certain objections to his service of punishment and obtaining consent to conditional leave, which they are all familiar with in the competent ministry and the very summit of the Administration of the Prison System. In a number of performances and complaints which have been filed during 2020, the disputed treatment of a judicial officer who is in family relations with a person in a leading position at the Department of Prison System. The police officer has been at work in several prisons and penitentiary within the system, but the problem is that in each individual, she has been bonding with people deprived of freedom. Because of its private relationship with persons from the criminal mileage, a number of irregularities and illegality have been reported in its professional conduct for several years. That's what all the leading levels within the prison system have warned her colleagues about, but all she did was move her into another institution within the system, media say. In these reports, there is no mention of such cases, which does not mean that there are no individual cases. There's no mention of control of the work of law enforcement officers. The case of a law enforcement officer who, according to media, has a family member from the Department of the Prison System himself talking about serious violations of the rules and laws. But the most dangerous thing is that in this particular case, a man who has been released who has easily obtained his excellent grades by corrupting and guessing and has not received a restraining order. So what now? Who'll be responsible if there's a violation of parole and there's a retaliation to the victim? And what about the victim who reads about it in the media and now lives in fear of being attacked again by the Daruvarian? So we think it should be disabled Repeated case of a cop with a family member from the prison system management. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101343	We have replicas, distinguished MPs, Dark Taritate first. Here you go. [[Thank you. Yeah, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101344	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. In fact, I wanted to ask you something else, but I can't take the impression right now, and yet to end up developing the thought, or what you're going to say about this case that's recently been the Daruvarac case that's been filling the media lately, and in the media, it's opened up and the problem has opened up. So what should be the interest of the system that it doesn't, so the interest that should be from the media is because this is all if it's an individual case all right, which if it isn't. So the interest of the system should always be such that the less there are these individual cases and such cover-up or putting things under the carpet, when you put too much snap and fall on your own nose, which is what it is, and in this one report you should be sure to refer to, have those who submit the report about it to you and tell you what they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101345	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101346	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues, for asking or commenting. Yes, as far as this particular police force is concerned, it's a time-consuming situation in the media, and it must have lasted in 2020. So, these kinds of violations, let's just say the word "bounce," I don't want to and can't argue that it's majority behavior, none of us can say that, I really hope it isn't, but the fact that there is and that such things should not only be warned in these reports but take much, much more severe sanctions to prevent the consequences of such behaviour because the consequences are very serious. We don't know what's going to happen now, and we have the right to suspect a possible threat to the victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101347	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101348	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin. So, from the data contained in this report on the work of the probation service, we read that for a large number of crimes that are not benign at all, there was a measure of work for the general good, for example for the crime against life and the body, and then a criminal offence against marriage, family, children or, say, sexual abuse, child abuse, etc. And so in a number of cases as far as I'm concerned, if we send a good message as a society if we are able to abuse a child at all, we determine the punishment or measure of a few hours of community service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101349	Dear representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101350	Thank you. So, of course, what you asked me, dear colleagues, is the question of the judiciary, the judiciary that is the cancer of this society's wounds, the justice that doesn't work unfortunately, and which is why this society can't move forward. There are many things we can blame the judiciary, but yes, I agree with you, the worst and most disgusting impunity is deserved and enough of those who have done anything to children. I don't have the strength or repeat what you said. And indeed, the work of several hours of some kind of help in some civil society is really a shame for this society and for the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101351	We are now going to the final presentations, first of all the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, and the Honorable Representative Željko Pavić will speak, please welcome When this point is over, we have three more speakers, so when we're done with the point. [[Clip intrusion: Free Talks don't go?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101352	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear secretary, I will continue to defend employees in your system and I will only draw attention that we have here an exhibition from the ranks of the assembly majority where it was written or was said to be progressing, to move forward, but your data shows that we are not going forward into the system, especially not going forward with the number of employees. If you look at the data in the report, then you'll see that the report says that 2020. You have the minimum number of employees back in the 6th year, from 2016 to 2020 you have the lowest number of employees in 2020. Instead of going in this direction in a positive direction instead of making progress, we're actually going back and putting the system in danger, putting people in danger, putting them in an unfavourable position, both prisoners and employees. Furthermore, I would draw attention to the fact that the planned means of probation and the prison system in the budget are smaller. Here's the question for you and your associate, have you tried the prime minister, have you tried to distract the minister that these funds are not enough, have you tried to say that you have too few employees, that this number of employees currently cannot do their job properly? It's our job to draw attention to the fact that even prisoners who are supposed to be reintegration into society tomorrow, who should... begin socialization and those who follow them, who keep them from functioning normally. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone here was talking about standards, no matter what our standards, what are we gonna need squares per prisoner if we don't have employees to do our jobs? Without those employees, no job, no prison system, no penitentiary. Therefore, I appeal, please do something to move in a positive direction, to raise wages, to improve working conditions or to work conditions and to work on what is necessary for our employees. Let's start with the uniform. We almost meet these people in town every day because they bring prisoners to court and we see how they're dressed, we see what kind of cars they're driving in, and I don't talk about sometimes very often they have to take care of those cars themselves even though it's not their job. Why? Because there are no people who should do the job. We had this question from my colleague Maric about medical staff. I don't know if you know, if you don't know, I'll tell you. Do you know that replacement therapy is shared by guards, that replacement therapy isn't shared by medical personnel because medical staff isn't enough and then we're surprised when there's an overdose and sometimes even death. Therefore, you must act in this direction to change these conditions. I don't know if you'll be able to attract new people into that system if it's a salary, an initial salary for a trainee of 3,600 kuna, for 5 years. An internship has a man's salary of 5,300 kuna and 25 years old. 6,500 kuna, that's the current situation in that system. You set one example that employees have a salary and up to 10,000 kunas, they may have, but those people who are guards without any benefits extra, without some position have the salaries I've now dictated here, you can check it out, it's not, it's not hard to check. I've already turned my attention to cars, I've turned my attention to, to uniforms, so I ask you again, to draw attention to the minister and to whether the current or the new one is coming or this one, if this one remains both for the Prime Minister and the government itself, that something must be done in that system, because without new good people in that system, there is no survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101353	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101354	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's to the end of this debate today, Mr. Secretary of State. Associates, colleagues and colleagues, anything to conclude fits on this small piece of paper, which is two attitudes of the Homeland Movement. So, please, we ask, we demand, however and in any form you wish to equalise the rights of judicial officers and police officers with the police or all services under the authority of the MUP. Secondly, at the first next budget rebalancing, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will request an increase in the budget for personal incomes, i.e. I call on all parliamentary parties to consensus because it is about our Croatian society and extremely important people who are doing hard and incredibly responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101355	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101356	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, Your Honor, Today we discussed two annual reports for 2020 – Report on the state of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and the report on the work of the probation service. Performing probational tasks is a probationary service consisting of the Central Prosecution Office and 14 probation offices in the Republic of Croatia covering the headquarters of one or more counties, i.e. areas of county courts. 104 employees are employed, of which 92 are in probation offices. On the day of 31.12.2020, each probation officer who has a total of 63 has an average of 57 items. Probation service received 3497 new items during 2020, and at the end of the year they had 3557 items. The persons involved in the trial worked 410837 hours for the general good for which 1371 legal persons were available. Probation jobs have been designated as jobs of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, and are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community from the perpetrators of the crime, their resociation and reintegration into the community. Probation offices monitor the enforcement of obligations towards the resolution of the state's attorney, organise and oversee the work for the general good, oversee paroled convicts. Probation jobs are also carried out when deciding on criminal prosecution, the choice of the type of punishment and the execution of penalties imposed on the perpetrators. During the decision on conditional discharge and in the approval of the convenience of the exit, the Probation Service report as well as for a whole series of other judicial system activities shall also be requested. It is indeed a large range of jobs where human factors are important, so it is a good thing that in 2020 education for probationary officials is realised. It also launched a three-year project as well as two other projects from the European Social Fund, which should help strengthen competences and acquire new knowledge and skills of probationary officials. The second report refers to a prison system that is much more abundant by the number of perpetrators and the number of users. During 2020, 11607 prisoners of various formal legal status went through the prison system, down almost 8% compared to 2019, while the number of prisoners on the last day of 2020 was lower by two prisoners compared to the previous year. The prison system is dominated by male prisoners with 94%, consistent with trends in recent years. All tasks with the maintenance of prisoners' sentences in penitentiary, institutions, educational establishments and centres were carried out by 258 employees of the 3558 systematization, representing a 72% fill-up. Until the next report, we hope that the fullness will increase to make it possible for employees to work better, but also to care for prisoners. In 2020, it was particularly demanding in terms of prevention and protection against coronary viruses, since prisoners and employees of the prison system are mostly in closed spaces, and therefore the successful implementation of all recommended measures and activities so that the system can function properly. One part of the prison facilities became unusable because of an earthquake in Banovina, so prisoners were moved to other bodies, which was certainly an additional effort, cost and burden for employees who are doing anyway stressful, psychophysically stressful and hard day-to-day work, and exceptional circumstances make it even more difficult. It is therefore necessary to invest additional efforts in the development of human potentials as well as spatial and technical capacities throughout the entire prison system. The next-mentioned Croatian Democratic Community club will support the reports in question for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u101357	That concludes the debate on these points. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met. We're going to take a technical break from five minutes, so by 13.20 and then we're going to take a stand on behalf of the counsel club. It's 13,15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82924	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 10th session with 15 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means, so there's no need for me to read it now. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendments. I'll read them. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 267 and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 268. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. As appropriate, here you go, comrade Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82925	So I'm looking for an intervention with you vice president because I still think you have some integrity. Namely, it is proposed to include in the agenda the decision of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in which for the first time it was precedentd, which did not seem to be Milanovic's government...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82926	Wait, I'm sorry, in what form are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82927	So it's an observation on the addition of the agenda. Note to the amendment to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82928	See you have to make a note on the agenda in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82929	Then I'm looking for a break on what you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82930	You can't ask for a break because we haven't finished this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82931	How can I not, then, make an observation on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82932	Yes, but in writing you should have made an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82933	So here's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82934	It's nothing. You didn't do business. So, if you had written a note in writing, of course, you could explain it, we would have discussed it together, but there's no way to talk about it right now. There's just no business opportunity, is there?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82935	Injury of the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: There, finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82936	Therefore, in accordance with Article 206(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been amended, I would like to conclude that all the items proposed have been included in the agenda of the 10th session. My colleague Grumo's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u82937	Article 238, i.e. the demeaning of MPs, as well as a number of other articles of the Rules of Procedure relating to the completion of the agenda, have been injured. You here suggest to be placed on the agenda of a committee that is actually anti-constitutional where it is requested that the Constitutional Court decide on a matter that changes the Constitution. How can the Constitutional Court decide whether something is constitutional or not if it is an amendment to the Constitution. This is not Milanovic doing what you do, you do not respect the Croatian people and put yourself above the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83017	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the position will be represented by the esteemed representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83018	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Friday, so let's go to the events this week. On Monday, we heard some really disturbing data from the State Statistics Institute. At the beginning of this year prices are almost 6% higher than in the same month last 2021. The key cause of price growth in Croatia is not only energy prices but also transport prices that increased almost 11% in January, food and non-alcoholic beverages 9.4%, alcoholic beverages and tobacco 6.2%, furniture, house equipment and household maintenance costs 5%, and restaurant and hotel accommodation 4.7%. We are particularly concerned about the growth of food and transport prices because it is costs that the poorest households cannot avoid, as well as the cost of housing, water and electricity that rose almost 3% in January, and as we can see the collection of electricity, including gas, and other energy plants will be even bigger. It's obvious an inflation spiral is being created. At the monthly level, the only thing that was least grown, slightly less than 3% of food and non-alcoholic drinks. The only significant drop in prices is recorded in a group of clothes and shoes 13% indicating the obvious problems of the job, but not because of the season of traditional reductions, but obviously because of the exceptional decline in consumer purchasing power, which already needs to plan for denials. It seems to me, then, that soon as it comes to clothing, we'll be wearing models of famous Italian creative houses naked and barefoot. Here is an extremely interesting document requesting access to information from the Ministry of Health. One citizen sent it and requested copies of the contracts concluded between the Republic of Croatia's body with Pfizer since the beginning of the covid pamedia. The answer is to the officials, I quote, by agreement concluded between the EU, the Commission and the participating Member States in the procurement of vaccines against covid-19 disease from 30 July 2020, the Member States, listen well, have authorised the European Commission to negotiate on their behalf with vaccine manufacturers and conclude purchase agreements with the manufacturers of the vaccine concerned. It follows that all parts of the agreement other than those which do not contain confidential commercial data are available to everyone. So you can't find out how many doses of vaccines are ordered, you can't or can't find out how much this same vaccine is paid, but you can find out if the vaccine is delivered in transparent or cloudy vials, obviously something is extremely cloudy here. For a moment, you could play sports commentator, so pretend to read the team that ran to the field, Filipović, Katičić, Bozinović, Ćorić, Medved, Tramišak, Milošević, Vučković, Banožić, Aladrović, Majdak and Plenkovic. Yes, it's a great reconstruction of the government who knows which one in a row, the last one certainly doesn't. Specially interesting question is the Memorial of Đurić or Snježana Vasiljevic, here it seems to me that somehow submerged in the last meters may be winning the race since we mentioned Mrs. Vassilijevic here several times. Đuric, who has an obvious and direct burden of signing 1700 illegal solutions between 2017 and 2020, and for those who are trying to relocate this information, it should be said that these cases are currently being lost in the administrative court in every case. And lastly, at the end of this week, the prime minister obviously broke with his knee or over his knee, but let's give the man a diplomatic, human and friendly karence to celebrate in peace the birth of the child on which we sincerely congratulate, so we're going to solve the issue of the government next week. Today is Friday, all of you have a nice weekend, Friday the first day of April, the day when the whole world is trying to come up with a better joke. Our ladies and gentlemen were canceled on April 1st because there are no bigger jokes than the one we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83077	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative, Željko Sacic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83078	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is an opportunity to address the Croatian public with one specific request and by pointing to a more significant problem in the functioning of our segment of the economy of craftsmanship. Croatia's craftsmanship is the most tough, in fact, economic body that has survived the various systems of economic, historical recorded in these areas. And so in the Zagreb area today, we have registered about 14,000 craftsmen, which means that through this system there are also more than 16,17,000 people who are doing their job neatly and paying all the necessary taxes to this society and thus caring for their own future. At the level of Croatia we have about 97,000 crafts of different species, the nomenclature of these crafts is from 1 to 58 different, from goldsmiths, hairdressers, pedicers, hatsmen, clocks and many others. And why am I telling you all this? They all work hard, diligently, hard to survive, to do some good for their family to ensure their lives in the way they feel it is best to rely on their experiences and experiences of their parents, most of the time they are traditional crafts. And this society all these people expect from this society means they don't think of hiring somewhere in the state system, the county, the city of any kind of town telling us to be caught rather than hard-working, responsiblely working with their hands, their knowledge to provide what is most necessary for their families and their survival. However, the least they expect of this society is that it does not interfere with them, that it does not prevent them, that it does not pressure them. For example, they are a very vulnerable category with today, by increasing their products and services their products and services are significantly threatened because they have to increase prices because society is not working enough despite the huge investment of money now 4.8 billion is the large amount of money that this government has invested to amortise the energy impact on our most vulnerable residents, so that they are not further impoverished, that VAT, for example, for gas consumers from 25% to 5%. However, this is not enough in all the measures that are diverse, which in one part are commendable because they prevent further pauperisation, further poverty of our residents, but craftsmen are not sufficiently covered by HERA, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency treats the customer as an enterprise, not as a household, and that is a significant difference. It is not the same when you have to pay for gas in the household or household category. We've got a so-called. the category of gas for household and industrial gas or colloquiumous industrial electricity, however, it significantly accumulates the business process of our craftsmen. without hidden support with a reduced envelope of direct support in agriculture, without market stock reserves with all the failures of the current agricultural policy thanks to persistent work and the pawning of our agricultural producers still ready to produce food for their population. I sincerely hope that there will be a dialogue between Croatian farmers and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. I personally believe that any amendments and additions to the rules must be made in cooperation with those to which the regulations apply. Only by asking our farmers about their policy needs can adequately respond by passing legal solutions and from the comfort of leather chairs Croatia risks an even greater depopulation of rural space and the threat of domestic food production. All of the above is ultimately reflected in the entire economy and the security of the state, making us vulnerable and dependent on food imports often of questionable quality and freshness. And that is why I stress, fellow representatives of the turbulent times in which we live commit us to responsibility to our people. The only clear and unequivocal support for the Croatian farmer can lead us towards sustainability and self-sufficiency in food production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83148	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Ivana Posavec-Krevec, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83149	Thank you, Your Honor. The Social Democrats Club on the eve of April 2nd, which is celebrated worldwide as awareness of autism, wants to draw the attention of our public to the growing problem of this complex disorder most often developed in the first three years, and lasts for the rest of our lives, which is under-informed in our society. According to a series of research by people with autism and their families are a particularly vulnerable part of the population that requires systematic solutions, except that this day should be used as an opportunity to put emphasis on all the unrecognized and untapped potentials of people from the spectrum of autism. In Croatia, data on persons from the autistic spectrum are monitored within the Croatian Registry of Persons with Disabilities, which has registered around 2000 cases where up to 12,000 people with that spectrum can be expected in accordance with the assessment of world prevalence. Spectrum disorder is a developmental disorder that affects the human way of communication, relationships with other people, and the environment. The way it affects people differs from person to person and depends on age and intellectual abilities. People with spectrum disorder of autism can also have different kinds of difficulties in different measures from severe forms to high-functional autism in children and adults with an average or high level of intelligence from the beginnings of the past, the growth of the past that left the City of Split 50 million kuna on the bill, they were in debt 18. Dear citizens, this is a dangerous precedent because the political interest of a single person is put above the rule of law and an individual's salvation from a potential crime is seen in the elections. To all of this our colleagues here on the left, I will also mention them to me and deny me here and colleague Oreshkovic came here yesterday who said that in fact Puljak and Ivosevic proved to be complementary in their work and that all shortcomings should be put before voters to judge all of this. I ask you this way what is with the court, what will the court judge? What about the rule of law that you often mention and cry out for this pay phone? For this speaker you also call resignations, the elections for individual insinuations on certain ministers, and here for a criminal offence and a confirmed indictment are being made by an election maneuver worth 2 million kuna and you approve it all. That's what I'm taking off my hat on. It is known, condemning the phenomenon to save a friend whose Split is for k and that for 2 million kuna. Well done, that's a real friendship to congratulate you on. You're as much a lawyer as I am yesterday and you're declaring that all the crimes and crimes and crimes are not the same because in this situation normally we offer citizens choices, under Sundays and deeds, this is about the threat of one female, one female journalist's editor. And I think it's anyone else I believe would drink your own blood, wouldn't let him run for office or run for more politics, but here are the standards and moral verticals I see here in the assembly saying nothing about it. So I'm wondering, where's my colleague Mariana Puljak? I haven't heard a statement from my colleague Bencic or Mr. Taritash or Raukar Gamulin or Kekin, I haven't heard a single lawyer for gender equality when justice and the electoral system are played here, I haven't heard a Babe or any women's protection association. I don't know where feminism and the protection of human rights went on the left about some local sheriffs, you all forgot the woman who asked for psychological help and protection from you. I guess the violence on the left is milder, I guess the beatings there hurt a little less. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83220	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83221	Sabina, Rose, General. Although he personally called me after this pay phone, I'm not going to replicate that HDZ guy who escaped from the assembly because I'm not really sure if I remember his name well at all. But since he strongly referred in his speech to what is happening in Split, I will say that what is happening there at this point is supposed to happen at the level of the entire state. Many talk about the government's reconstruction, I think this government is mature for an extraordinary election. But what should happen after them, although we are safe and we know it won't be so soon, we'll wait another two years, it's a reconstruction of the whole state, and I've been talking about it since I've been on this political scene. So when the unremembered HDZ representative has touched the rule of law on me, I will note that on the HS website, there is a strategy to combat corruption that I have been saying for several years and everything that needs to be done from constitutional changes, from changes in relations between the president of the state and government, from judicial reform, from reform of territorial structure, from reform of electoral laws to the famous transparency that it should all contain in that anti-corruption strategy that I called in one election programme a plan for Croatia, everything there writes. I'm not sure if HDZ can read it, and I'm not sure if they're aware that eventually, perhaps not during my term in the 10th session of HS, but eventually everything I wrote here will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83222	Thank you very much. That's what we're gonna do with today's work. We will continue our work on Wednesday 6th April at 9.30 p.m., and the first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 13:57 p.m. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives will speak the esteemed representative Urša Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83279	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs, I'm going to talk about autism today. Although it is well known when we talk about those whom he is professional, family, or other everyday life, it is better to say about the disorder from the spectrum of autism. A PSA spectrum disorder, remember that shortcut, over the next month you'll hear it many times. There are areas where Croatia is excellent, not only better than the average but just the best. Unfortunately, the media did not follow it, so it did not echo, and therefore I do not blame you for not knowing it, but recently, at the European Parliament's meeting, the Republic of Croatia has been praised recently for its relationship with this vulnerable group. The crown is the effort this society has made in this sector. The inter-resorship cooperation at the highest level brought together experts from the fields of education, social care and health care and set goals even more than those offered by examples from the supposedly more developed West. We knew we had to do more together, and today we can be proud of what we've done. Today, respected MPs and MPs have no universities in the Republic of Croatia where there is no study programme of educational rehabilitation because experts never enough. There is no hospital even in health homes in the least developed areas where staff does not adhere to emergency reception protocols for people with autism spectrum disorder. Early diagnostics that are extremely important when it comes to PSA are available to every child less than 10 kilometers away. Gardens and school systems are adapted to persons with such diagnosis, equipped with special cabinets, and people are educated and willing to integrate pupils and students with PSA into classes. After 21 years of life, persons with PSA in the Republic of Croatia have a working and safe future. They live on their own and in organised state programmes with the support to engage in community life in the best possible way. Health care and welfare systems are constantly following them on their way of life to help them overcome the difficulties of full and quality integration. Parents and guardians of persons with PSA in the Republic of Croatia can therefore sleep peacefully knowing that their children are taken care of and that they have a meaningful, full and supportive future ahead of them. In short, if one thing this country can be proud of, it's a lifelong concern for people with autism spectrum disorder. Dear MPs and MPs let me remind you today is April 1st, the day we lie and cheat, when we play with words and things, and sometimes even people, but tomorrow is the 2nd International Day of Autism Consciousness. And it disappears Pangloss's best among the best possible worlds, everything will be serious again, the picture will be dark again, it will be difficult again, it will again be insufficient, inconclusive, unconstitutional and bad, just as it is with the relationship of this society and the system towards one of the most vulnerable of its constituents, persons with autism disorder. Think about it, not just tomorrow and not just next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83370	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83371	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples. No matter how incredible it may seem, but the system of accumulation and the Kosinj hydropower plant will produce less energy than the existing one. The latest official published information on the possible production of the new hydro-hidden Kosinj system is from the Government of Croatia's decision to declare Kosinj a strategic project from July 2021, which states that the new additional energy will be 230 gigawatts per hour, gigavat hours. Furthermore, it is said that the production potential will be somewhere around 1.5 ravine hours by realising this new system. However, there are several myths we would like to break. Myth number one is that the production capacity will be 1.5 terrawatts. Assuming that the new supply system and new hydrothermia Senj II will be produced as well as the existing Senj system and energy equivalent of this new and existing power plant will be practically equal to one kilowatt per cubic metre. If they look at each other, then it turns out that on the rivers of Lika, Bakovac and Gačka we have 38.9 metres of cubic meters per second, which is the energy equivalent of 1.3 gigawatt hours per year. If more energy is added and the location of the power plants at sea, produced energy at the location... and Kosinj about 90 gigawatts a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about 1.3 gigawatt hours a year. So the conclusion is, therefore, that the potential of production is simply watery, simply cannot produce gigawatt hours that are given, so in the strategic project of HEP. So all of this, therefore, refers to an ideal system that has absolutely no loss whatsoever. So there's also a myth number two, that there will be 230 gigawatt hours of new energy, so with this Kosinj. So this 230 gigawatt-hour new energy data was obtained based on an analysis with the help of so-called. the duration curve. However, practice shows that such analyses are actually done by simulation on a model rather than by curves. When it goes through simulations we actually get that the newly produced model could give 170 gigawatt hours of electricity. Now no one's considered losing. The first loss is the loss of evaporation, where there could actually be a reduction of 30 gigawatts per year. So now it's not 170 but 140. Secondly, losses to protect the environment where we will actually have occasional releases of the Like River into the abyss. So it's an extra 50 gigawatt hours. So it's not 140 anymore than we've already come to 90. And as for the accumulation loss, there is therefore no accumulation that does not release water. The accumulation of Kosinje on this side is particularly sensitive because both sides are extremely permeable. And when you take that into account and when you look at the batteries of the Kruščica and the new Kosinj, which is three times bigger, we're actually going to get, so we can expect losses of at least 100 gigawatts of hours a year. And when you do the math you actually get, so the system with the accumulation and the hydro power plant Kosinj will produce less energy than the existing system. The alternative to this ecocid and the monstrosity part is the construction of hydrothermia Switzerland and the pump hydropower plant Senj, which will have no losses. Also, the construction of a Senj pump power plant with exceptional regulatory properties in tandem with a similar Vinodol hydropower plant enables the construction of new wind power plants, i.e. other renewable energy sources. No houses or commercial buildings submerged. About 2000 ha of land, hundreds of family houses and economic buildings, schools, churches, cemeteries and the entire historical village of Gornji Kosinj are submerged in the version of the hydropower plant Kosinj. While it's still time to stop this monstrous act if you have a little conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83535	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ante Bačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-01-0.u83536	Thank you, Vice President. Dear everyone, yesterday we witnessed the announcements of the mayor of Split's resignation, which he is willing to give along with his deputy Bojan Ivosevic, we do not yet know what will happen within a week. Today we are already witnessing that after 10 months of this seemingly very clean and transparent government in the city of Split we only have a bunch of affairs, incompetence and a stalemate position in which Split is presently located. The same clean and transparent authority headed by Mayor Puljko at the beginning of the mandate called on both the government and the ministry to launch projects. The government came up with funds for very important projects in the city of Split from the hub of the busiest with Stobrec to the concession on Žnjan, to the entrance roads of Split, the Croatian roads and other companies are waiting for realisation, artists have been selected in individual projects, and the town of Split has not been involved in projects for 10 months but has not issued construction permits. Today we have the city of Split and the city administration that deals itself under cover of the introduction of order just cutting down some steps in the parking lot, moving individual terraces, squatting under the supervision of specialists only certain populist acts. But thank God this kind of experiment comes to an end, it's falling apart inside itself, we see what's happening in Split, in Pula, tomorrow in Zagreb, in Sibenik-Knin County because such options don't bind anything, they're not bound by any ideology, they're bound exclusively by certain interests, the activist need to bring down a single, individual government. At this point they are looking for the culprit and in the government of the Republic of Croatia, looking for the culprit and in opposition in certain cities specifically here in Split, but the culprit is actually their experiment, the culprit is in their ranks, simple things don't work, coalitions are falling apart. And now in Split, the whole city is being blocked, it's starting soon, and we're going to the elections. For who, what? For one person. This is Deputy Mayor Mr. Bojan Ivosevic. I wonder what's magical about that young man, I wonder if the mayor might be as well-rated, maybe he's threatened to drink his blood if he touches him. So I ask the mayor at the next press to wink we'll figure out if she's being blackmailed we'll come for help. The mayor says I don't give up because we all worked together, I don't give up because we worked very hard for the city of Split to get him out of the past, the growth of the past that left the city of Split 50 million kuna in account, they took 18. Dear citizens, this is a dangerous precedent because the political interest of a single person is put above the rule of law and an individual's salvation from a potential crime is seen in the elections. To all of this our colleagues here on the left, I will also mention them to me and deny me here and colleague Oreshkovic came here yesterday who said that in fact Puljak and Ivosevic proved to be complementary in their work and that all shortcomings should be put before voters to judge all of this. I ask you this way what is with the court, what will the court judge? What about the rule of law that you often mention and cry out for this pay phone? For this speaker you also call resignations, the elections for individual insinuations on certain ministers, and here for a criminal offence and a confirmed indictment are being made by an election maneuver worth 2 million kuna and you approve it all. That's what I'm taking off my hat on. It is known, condemning the phenomenon to save a friend whose Split is for k and that for 2 million kuna. Well done, that's a real friendship to congratulate you on. You're as much a lawyer as I am yesterday and you're declaring that all the crimes and crimes and crimes are not the same because in this situation normally we offer citizens choices, under Sundays and deeds, this is about the threat of one female, one female journalist's editor. And I think it's anyone else I believe would drink your own blood, wouldn't let him run for office or run for more politics, but here are the standards and moral verticals I see here in the assembly saying nothing about it. So I'm wondering, where's my colleague Mariana Puljak? I haven't heard a statement from my colleague Bencic or Mr. Taritash or Raukar Gamulin or Kekin, I haven't heard a single lawyer for gender equality when justice and the electoral system are played here, I haven't heard a Babe or any women's protection association. I don't know where feminism and the protection of human rights went on the left about some local sheriffs, you all forgot the woman who asked for psychological help and protection from you. I guess the violence on the left is milder, I guess the beatings there hurt a little less. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
